DRN-4303873
The complaint
Mr R has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) was responsible for
damage to his property following a claim under his home care policy. For the avoidance of
doubt, the term British Gas includes its contractors and agents for the purposes of this
decision letter.
What happened
Mr R noticed water leaking through the light fitting in the kitchen ceiling in October 2022. He
reported the matter to British Gas and paid the relevant insurance excess. A plumber
attended, however the problem occurred again two weeks later.
Seven different engineers attended Mr Rs property over a period of several months to try to
resolve the issue, but he claimed that this didnt succeed. As he said the cause of the leak
wasnt identified and fixed, Mr R complained to British Gas that this had resulted in
considerable damage to his property. The floor in the bathroom became soft and needed to
be replaced. British Gas didnt uphold his complaint and said it wouldnt cover the property
damage. Mr R was also unhappy with the customer service hed received from British Gas. It
refunded an initial excess amount, but he was since been charged further excess amounts
for re-visits. In the circumstances, Mr R referred his concerns to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Mr Rs complaint. She said that British Gas hadnt provided
sufficient evidence to show that it had complied with the policy terms and conditions. She
thought that British Gas should have determined the cause of the leak and had it done so,
damage wouldnt have been caused. It was her view that British Gas should reinspect the
property, fix the leak and carry out the necessary works or cover this cost.
British Gas didnt agree with the investigators view. The matter was therefore referred to me 
to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In July 2023, I issued a provisional 
decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint as 
follows; -
The key issue for me to determine in this case is whether British Gas applied the terms and
conditions of its home care policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining to further
assist Mr R. On a provisional basis, I dont consider that it has acted in a fair and reasonable
manner, and Ill explain why. In reaching this provisional decision, Ive considered what the
parties say as summarised below.
Initially, Mr R engaged with British Gas in Oct 2022 as he had a leaking toilet and water was
coming from the bathroom through the ceiling below. Initially, British Gas said it couldnt do
anything until the following week and even then, it wasnt sure if the job would be covered by
the home care policy. Mr R had provided video evidence to British Gas which he said was
from the early days of his claim and showed no damage to the floor or mould on the kitchen
ceiling. He had also produced numerous photographs and he said that one image showed a
pan which was collecting water from the leak and that another showed water marks on his
babys highchair.
Mr R said that hed received seven separate visits to the property from British Gas plumbers
and one of them had turned up without tools He said it was not until the second-to-last visit
in January 2023 that an investigation was carried out and the floor under the toilet was
checked. That plumber found the floor under the toilet to be sodden and unsafe. One of the
engineers had also put his hand through the floorboards. Mr R said that the plumber who
found the leak said that this could have been prevented if the first plumber who attended the
property had carried out a thorough check. Over a month later, Mr R said there was
evidence of more dampness which he thought was caused by the same leak and which he
therefore didnt think had been fixed. Mr R said hed also made it clear to British Gas that the
water leaking through to the ceiling light-fitting below was directly under the toilet.
Mr R said the toilet became wobbly as the flooring was so soft. He said some of it had
collapsed it was black with mould underneath. He said that the ceiling paper in the kitchen
was hanging down, with black mould spreading across from the leak. One of his advisors
considered that there was £800 of property damage but Mr R thought that this figure didnt
account for the full extent of the damage or the hole in the floor where it had collapsed. He
referred to the fact that he had a young family and one family member with a medical
condition. Mr R said that he was fuming as the episode had been going on for months.
Mr R also complained that British Gas had charged further excess amounts even though
these had been for re-visits to try to resolve the same issue. He also provided call logs
which showed nearly 13 hours of telephone calls to British Gas and its engineers. He had
also missed work on one occasion as hed stayed in for a promised appointment, but the
plumber had failed to turn up. He said that all of this had caused stress and inconvenience.
Finally, Mr R said that as the bottom of the toilet was damp, on a new temporary hardboard
floor, he decided to engage his own expert and produced a plumbers report. He felt that the
plumber had written an in-depth report of his findings and had stated what he considered the
cause of the leak to be. The report dated March 2023 stated; The leak appeared to be
coming from the toilet pan connector. However, it was actually leaking from the flush cone
and on to the pan connector. It referred to the British Gas input and the fact that the leak
has been causing damage during this time. It concluded; Advised that the toilet need to be
fixed down properly with correct fixing kit to prevent the pan moving and the flush cone
working its way out again.
I now turn to what British Gas have said about the matter. British Gas acknowledged that Mr
R was extremely unhappy with its engineers workmanship, the multiple visits that had taken
place and the length of time the issue had been going on. However, it said that there had
been a previous visit in September 2022, and it claimed that photographs from that visit
showed a damaged ceiling, that water was dripping through the ceiling and into the lights
and electrics. It therefore did not agree that no damage had been caused before the leak
was reported. In the circumstances, it did not accept responsibility for the rotten floor or
damaged ceiling as it said this had been present in September 2022. Whilst it accepted that
there was a small toilet leak, it said that the leak must have been very long-standing to rot
the floorboards. It also said that a long-standing leak from the bath had been showed to Mr
R and clearly this was causing damage.
British Gas said that it arranged for a plumber to attend the property in mid-October 2022
due to the reported toilet leak, however he didnt fix the leak. It said that Mr R had explained
that his plumber said that there was a significant issue with the design of the existing
pipework and another visit would therefore be required. A plumber attended the following
day due to Mr R reporting that the leak had become worse and the plumber fitted a new pan
connector to the toilet. British Gas accepted that the flush cone leaked after this, but that the
escape of water was minimal. The next visit took place in early November 2022 due to an
on-going leak and the flush cone was replaced.The problem persisted and on the next visit at the end of November, the engineer found no
toilet leaks. On checking the shower and bath however, water streamed down the wall when
they sprayed at the wall. The engineer showed this to you and you agreed this was the
issue, they also confirmed this work would not be covered under your HomeCare policy. It
said that Mr R had since replaced the sealant. On a visit in late December 2022, the plumber
found evidence of condensation on the toilet cistern, which was dripping, however did not
consider this to be the cause of the leak damaging the floor and ceiling. At his point, British
Gas identified that the toilet was nearly coming through the ceiling and, after cutting some
lino found no floorboards, due to being rotten. It said that there was evidence a foot had
gone through the floorboards.
On a further visit in January 2023, a plumber stripped down the toilet and said it showed no
signs of leaking. New flooring had been put down and the engineer lifted this and reported
that there were no signs of any leaks. The engineers notes stated; Stripped down toilet no
sign of leak lifted new flooring no sign of leak I believe leak was from movement in toilet on
soft floor now flooring has been replaced and toilet not moving issue has resolved no sign of
recent leaks then Customer told it hasn't leaked since new floor has been put down re
assembled toilet on new floor tested ok. It also said that Mr R advised that it had not leaked
since the new flooring had been put down. It considered that the lack of stability in the floor
was the case of the further water escapes.
British Gas did however recognise the poor service that Mr R received, regarding the
inconvenience caused through the multiple visits and the time taken to investigate his
complaint. It therefore offered compensation of £110.00, however this was declined by Mr R.
British Gas also cancelled charges which it had raised regarding what it termed as
unproductive visits.
Having considered all evidence and submissions, I confirm that the starting point for
complaints of this nature is the wording of the relevant policy. The relevant policy does
indeed cover all repairs to the plumbing system on your property, A replacement of parts
that we cant repair and also Accidental damage. The policy therefore makes it clear that
Mr R has paid for a policy with British Gas and in return, it promises to fix plumbing problem.
It also makes it clear that British Gas will not be responsible for damage caused to the
property itself, for example, by water leaks unless we caused it.
The first issue which remains in contention is whether the leak has been finally identified and
fixed or whether there is a continuing problem. British Gas considered that the matter was
resolved in early 2023, that it related to the state of the floor and that Mr R had agreed that
there was no longer a leak. Mr R states that the leak is still occurring and that damage to the
property is therefore becoming progressively worse. Whilst I appreciate that trace and
access would not ordinarily be provided under a home care policy, in view of the number of
plumbers who have been engaged, thought that theyd identified the leak and the amount of
time it has taken to resolve the problem, I consider that British Gas has not done enough to
assist Mr R under his policy. In the circumstances and on a provisional basis, Im minded to
require British Gas to engage a leak detection specialist in the first instance to produce a
formal report to finally determine whether there is an on-going leak. If it is determined that
there is an on-going leak, it should then diligently proceed to repair any plumbing leak which
falls within the scope of its service under the home care policy.
Having looked at the brief expert reports which have been provided in this case, it is
unfortunate that there are conflicting opinions on the matter. Unfortunately, therefore, there
is no detailed professional report which is sufficiently persuasive to identify one clear cause
of the damage in this case. On the balance of probabilities, the evidence shows that both the
shower/bath as well as the toilet had suffered leaks over a considerable period of time. Impersuaded that engineers had visited the property in September 2022, when they were
acting for Mr Rs home insurers rather than British Gas. Im also persuaded that a
bath/shower leak had been identified and that this leak had probably caused some initial
damage to the ceiling below. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr R had arranged for bath sealant
to be applied and that this may have resolved one issue.
Having viewed the large amount of photographic evidence, I consider that, on the balance of
probabilities, due to the considerable floor damage uncovered around the toilet that there
had been a leak present for a long time. The floorboards were completely rotten, to the
extent that Mr R said that an engineer had been able to put his hand through the boards.
British Gas likewise thought that someone had put a foot through the boards. In view of the
location of this damage directly below the toilet, its highly likely that this particular damage
was caused by a gradual leak from the toilet over a period of very many months if not years,
rather than from any leak to the shower/bath.
Unfortunately, none of the expert evidence from the engineers or plumbers of either party
assists in authoritatively determining whether the ceiling and any electrical damage caused
to the ceiling below the bathroom was caused by the long-standing bath/shower leak or due
to the toilet leak. Its quite possible that both have contributed to this damage and mould. On
the balance of probabilities this damage is likely to have worsened between mid-October 
2022 and January 2023. However, its not possible to exactly apportion the amount of
damage attributable to the period when British Gas was involved in trying to fix the leak.
I note that British Gas accept that there had been seven visits by its engineers, but theyd
been unable to resolve the leak that continued between October 2022 and January 2023.
This is clearly not an adequate service as Mr R paid for his home care policy in order to have
the assurance that its professional experts would discover and fix a plumbing problem
promptly and efficiently. The unsuccessful visits will have caused Mr R and his family
considerable disruption, stress and inconvenience on top of the stress of an on-going leak
which was running into the room below. I have no reason to doubt that what Mr R says is
correct in relation to the British Gas engineer who appeared to have identified the issue, and
that hed said that the problem should have been identified in October 2022. I agree that if a
thorough check had been carried out by British Gas engineers at the time, then it would have
avoided several wasted visits, may have led to less damage and on-going stress and
inconvenience for Mr R.
Its not clear whether the toilet leak was due to floor instability, a problem with the soil pipe, a
problem with the toilet cone or indeed a combination of various factors. However, a thorough
standard check would have been likely to have identified the serious problem with the
floorboards below the toilet. This would have allowed British Gas to report and record the
extent of the damage at that time and allowed Mr R to remedy any issue with the floor before
it got progressively worse.
My provisional conclusion is therefore that there was likely to have been pre-existing
damage in October 2022 for which British Gas cant be held responsible. It was likely that
some damage to the bathroom floorboards, kitchen ceiling and electrics would need to have
been repaired in any event. This work needs to be progressed by Mr R on an urgent basis to
prevent the pan moving and the flush cone working its way out again, as advised by his
plumber.
However, if British Gas had correctly identified the issue in a timely manner, its highly likely
that the full extent of the damage eventually discovered, could have been avoided. The
necessary repairs would be likely to have been more expensive than they needed to be. It
appears that the rotten wood and mould on the ceiling may still be present, and Ive noted
that there is a young child and also a person with a medical condition which could well beaffected by this ongoing situation.
In all the circumstances, I provisionally conclude that British Gas should pay Mr R £500 in
settlement of his claim to enable him to progress the floor and ceiling work on an urgent
basis. This recognises the fact that some of the damage caused is likely to have pre-dated
the British Gas input, but that a significant amount of the damage will be due to its poor
service. I also provisionally conclude that British Gas should pay £250 to Mr R in
compensation, to recognise the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr R and his family
over a period of many months. British Gas should also cancel any outstanding invoices for
excess amounts, again to recognise the inconvenience caused. Finally, and on a provisional
basis, if following completion of professional works to repair the floor and securing of the
toilet to the new flooring, its found that a leak persists, to promptly attend and fix any such
leak.
In my provisional decision, I asked both British Gas and Mr R if they had any further 
comments or evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas didnt provide any further information or evidence following my provisional 
decision. Mr R initially indicated that hed received a quote for £2,500 for a full repair and if 
the settlement of £500 could be increased. He subsequently reverted to this service and 
stated that hed received a lower quote from local tradespeople. Mr R therefore confirmed 
his acceptance of the findings in the provisional decision.
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do the following in response to Mr Rs complaint.
- To settle Mr Rs claim for damage in the sum of £500, within 21 days of Mr Rs
acceptance of a final decision letter in this case.
- To pay Mr R and additional amount of £300 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused by its poor service, within the same time period.
- To cancel any outstanding invoices for any excess amount in relation to this claim.
- If, following floor and ceiling repairs arranged by Mr R, there is an on-going toilet
leak, to promptly and diligently arrange for the leak to be fixed, without raising any
further excess fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman