DRN-2172416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc will not refund them expenses incurred (the 
cost of flights back to the UK) following disputed transactions on their joint account which 
Santander have refunded. Mr M s also unhappy he had to go into branch. He would like 
compensation to reflect the stress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by Mr M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a joint account with Santander. They were victims of fraud on their 
account. 
On 10 and 11 July 2019 Santander received calls requesting new cards and PINs for the 
accounts held by Mr M. As a result, over £38,000 in disputed transactions were carried out. 
Mr M became aware of these on 20 July 2019. Some blocks were put on the cards whilst the 
disputed transactions were investigated. Further transactions were carried out up until 
10 August 2019.
At the time of the fraud Mr M was abroad with his family. Because of the disputed 
transactions and the subsequent blocks on his account Mr M needed to confirm his identity. 
He says he had to return to the UK despite one of his party being unwell.
Mr M attended in branch on 9 August 2019 to update his details and collect replacement 
cards. 
All blocks were removed from the accounts in 16 August 2019. The disputed transactions 
have been refunded in full.
Santander admitted that they hadnt correctly applied the blocks on the account and so 
further disputed transactions occurred. They offered Mr M £150 for this error and the time 
taken to refund the disputed transactions.
Mr M complained to the bank. He was unhappy the disputed transactions had taken place 
and was concerned an employee of Santander might have carried them out.
Santander said they didnt believe that a staff member was responsible for the fraud. They 
admitted there had been errors in blocking the account and had already offered £150 
compensation.
Mr M was unhappy with their response, so he complained to our service.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint and said he didnt think there was 
evidence to suggest a Santander staff member had committed the fraud. The investigator 
thought as Santander had provided Mr M with an alternative way of confirming his identity, 
they shouldnt have to contribute to the costs of Mr Ms flights back to the UK. He also 
thought £150 was fair compensation for the delays on the claim.
Mr M was unhappy with the view he thought that Santander must be involved, and he was 
concerned that the fraudster had gone over the daily limit when they withdrew cash with his 
card. This made Mr M think that Santander staff must be involved. He also felt he had to 
travel back with a poorly family member putting their health at risk.
The investigator looked into this further point. He let Mr M know that Santander had received 
a request for an increase in the daily withdrawal limit by telephone. This call had been made 
by the fraudster pretending to be Mr M. Thats why the fraudster could take out such a large 
amount from the cash machine.
Mr M was still not happy he thought that on occasions the daily limit had been exceeded and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr M has been the victim of a fraud and he was very worried especially 
since he was abroad at the time.
Because of the fraud on the account Santander blocked the account. As Mr Ms mail had 
been intercepted and there was concern that someone was impersonating Mr M. Mr M 
needed to provide Identification evidence to the bank.
Mr M has said that this resulted in him having to return from abroad and go into branch.
I can see that Santander was able to use an alternative way of confirming his identity. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that Santander requested that Mr M return to the UK. 
So, I dont think Santander should be held responsible for Mr M doing so. Although I can 
appreciate that Mr M may have felt it was easier to get things sorted by being back home, I 
cant see that Santander should be held liable for his flight expenses.
After he returned to the UK, Mr M went into branch to sort things out and to pick up his new 
cards. In situations where a bank is aware of someone impersonating the customer and 
intercepting their mail, I would expect them to require the customer to come into branch to 
pick up the cards. So, I dont think Santander did anything unusual there.
Mr M thinks Santander employees must have been involved in the fraud, but I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest this. Mr M thought that because the ATM withdrawals made were 
over the daily limit this suggested the bank must have been involved in the fraud. I want to 
reassure Mr M that Ive looked at evidence of the ATM withdrawals and I cant see any 
evidence that they exceeded the daily withdrawal limit of £1,500. Ive looked at all the 
evidence in the case and I cant see anything to suggest that Santander employees were 
involved in the fraud on Mr Ms joint account. As my colleague has said it isnt the role of the 
Ombudsman to determine who carried out the fraud, thats a matter for the police. I know 
they have been investigating because Mr M has recently told this service that someone has 
been arrested on suspicion of committing the fraud.
I have seen evidence that Mr M was refunded all the disputed transactions on 23 July and 
16 August 2019.Santander have admitted that they didnt carry out a full block on the account and that this 
meant that further fraudulent transactions were carried out on the account. Santander 
agreed to pay Mr M £150 for their error and have already done so.
I appreciate that Mr M found the whole situation very stressful and difficult especially 
because he was abroad at the time. I am also aware that there was illness in his family 
which caused him stress. But even taking all this into consideration I dont think that 
Santander can be held liable for the actions of a fraudster on Mr Ms account. I think that 
£150 fairly reflects the errors the bank made when they blocked the account, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything else.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr M would have wanted but I wont be asking Santander 
to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman