DRN-3804803
The complaint
Mr N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited provided poor service when he looked 
into making a claim on a private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N is insured under a group private medical insurance policy.
On 28 March 2022, Mr N called AXA to let it know that hed unfortunately been diagnosed 
with cancer. He let AXA know that he had an appointment booked with the NHS and wanted 
to look into whether he could get treatment quicker. AXAs call handler told Mr N that hed 
receive a call back from its Cancer Care Team (CCT) within 24 hours.
As Mr N didnt get a call back within 24 hours, he contacted AXA again. Initially, he was 
wrongly told that hed be called later that day. However, AXA later let Mr N know that hed 
been given wrong information about the timescales for a call back from the CCT. Instead, it 
told Mr N that call backs are usually made within 48 hours.
Mr N was unhappy with the misinformation hed been given, and he complained. A case 
manager from AXAs CCT called Mr N on 30 March 2022. Mr N told the CCT case manager 
that he had an NHS appointment booked for the next day. He and the case manager briefly 
discussed next steps and agreed to talk again after Mr Ns NHS appointment.
AXA considered Mr Ns concerns about the service hed received. It issued its final response 
to Mr Ns complaint on 1 April 2022. AXA acknowledged that hed been incorrectly told that 
hed receive a CCT call back within 24 hours. And that hed had to make a number of calls to 
chase things up. It said Mr N shouldve been passed straight through to the CCT. So AXA 
offered Mr N an apology and it sent him a cheque for £100 as compensation for the poor 
service hed received. Since that point, AXA has also paid Mr N NHS cash benefit under the 
policy for treatment Mr N has undergone on the NHS pathway.
Mr N remained unhappy with the service AXA had provided and he asked us to look into his 
complaint. He felt that AXA had caused delays in him being able to access treatment. And 
he didnt think AXA had offered fair compensation.
Our investigator thought AXA had already made a fair offer to settle Mr Ns complaint. She 
agreed AXA had made a clear error when it gave Mr N misinformation about its call back 
times. But she didnt think AXAs actions had caused any delay in Mr N being able to access 
treatment. And she didnt think the policy guaranteed that a policyholder could access 
cancer treatment more quickly. Overall, she felt the compensation AXA had already offered, 
together with its apology, was a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
Mr N disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He said he paid a 
high premium for the policy to get quicker access to treatment for serious illnesses. He felt 
AXA hadnt tried to find an appointment for him or given him an option to choose his 
treatment. He said the CCT case manager had told him that he was better off on the NHS 
and had effectively given up on trying to help him. He didnt think the investigator had done 
enough to challenge AXAs position. He felt £100 was a disgusting compensation sum. He 
considered that AXA had delayed his cancer treatment by three months.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, I think AXA has already made a fair offer 
to settle his complaint and Ill explain why.
I was sorry to hear of the circumstances that gave rise to Mr Ns claim and complaint. I dont 
doubt how distressing and shocking it mustve been when he received a cancer diagnosis. 
Id like to reassure Mr N that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint and his 
responses to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within this decision 
though, I havent commented on each point hes made and nor do our rules require me to. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. In 
this case, AXA acknowledges that it wrongly told Mr N that he would receive a call back from 
its CCT within 24 hours of his original call. Given Mr N had recently been diagnosed with 
cancer, I can appreciate why he wanted to speak with AXA as soon as possible to determine 
whether he could obtain an appointment more quickly than hed been able to arrange with 
the NHS. So I understand why it mustve been very disappointing and frustrating when Mr N 
chased up the call back, more than once, to be told that the correct timescale for a CCT call 
back was  actually 48 hours. And I dont doubt that this caused Mr N unnecessary trouble 
and upset at an already very distressing time. Accordingly, Ive gone on to consider what fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience AXAs mistake caused Mr N should be.
In common with most, if not all, private medical insurers, AXA doesnt own or operate the 
private medical facilities its members use. It doesnt provide treatment  instead it covers the 
cost of private eligible treatment. AXA can find specialists for a policyholder and book 
appointments on a policyholders behalf. But it cant guarantee that appointments will be 
immediately available or that indeed, that private appointments will be available more quickly 
than if they were made on the NHS. 
When Mr N first called AXA, on 28 March 2022, he already had an appointment booked with 
the NHS. Its clear from his call with the CCT case manager on 30 March 2022, that this 
appointment was scheduled for the following day  31 March 2022. It isnt at all clear to me 
that had the CCT called Mr N on 29 March 2022, 24 hours after his initial call, that it couldve 
found and booked a specialist oncology appointment for Mr N any sooner than 31 March 
2022. 
And its also clear that Mr N did make use of the NHS appointment hed booked. While a 
treatment plan wasnt decided during the first NHS appointment (as he was awaiting scans 
and a biopsy), I can see that Mr N spoke with his CCT case manager again on 6 April 2022. 
During that call, Mr N told the case manager that hed been recommended chemotherapy. It 
seems Mr N chose to stay on the NHS pathway. AXA says that it accordingly paid NHS cash 
benefit in line with the policy terms in May, June and July 2022 when Mr N underwent NHS 
in-patient treatment. 
Mr N strongly feels that AXA had effectively given-up on the idea of him pursuing private 
treatment from the start. Ive thought about this very carefully. Ive listened to the call between Mr N and the case manager on 30 March 2022. The case manager did say that in 
some cases, cancer patients opted to stay on the NHS until they had a treatment plan in 
place and then switch to private care. She also stated that in some cases, it was quicker to 
remain with the NHS. But I think that she made it clear, during the call, that Mr N had a 
choice about whether to opt for private care or whether to undergo treatment on the NHS. In 
my view, the CCT case manager made Mr Ns treatment options sufficiently clear to him. 
And it was ultimately his decision as to whether to undergo treatment privately or on the 
NHS.
I appreciate Mr N believes that AXA delayed him being able to access and begin treatment. 
But I dont think Ive seen enough evidence to show me this was most likely the case. I say 
that because Mr N was already on the NHS pathway at the time of his first call to AXA and 
he remained on the NHS pathway thereafter. It seems he had an NHS appointment three 
days after his initial call of 28 March 2022 and a treatment plan had been recommended 
around a week later. Mr N hasnt provided any evidence to show that private treatment 
couldve been arranged more quickly or that chemotherapy wouldve begun sooner.
Overall then, in the circumstances of this complaint, I find that AXAs error was giving Mr N 
the wrong timescale for a call back from CCT on more than one occasion. I also think it 
ought to have tried to transfer Mr N to CCT, especially once it learned it had already given 
him incorrect information. As Ive said, I think this wouldve caused Mr N upset and 
frustration at an already very difficult time for him. But Ive also borne in mind that AXA 
resolved Mr Ns complaint very promptly  responding to his concerns within a few days. 
And as Ive set out above, I dont find that AXAs error led to Mr Ns treatment being delayed 
or limited in any way. So in my view, the £100 compensation AXA has already offered Mr N, 
together with its apology, is fair compensation to reflect the likely impact of its mistake on 
him. This means Im not telling AXA to pay Mr N anything more.
Mr N says that he didnt cash AXAs cheque. Its possible that this has now expired. So AXA 
should now reissue its cheque to Mr N so that he can cash it if he wishes to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXA has already made a fair offer 
to settle this complaint and so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman