DRN-2147328
The complaint
Mr K complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited have turned down his claim under his 
Breakdown Repair Cover (BRC).
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it Ive 
just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr Ks car broke down and after this was investigated, he was told it was a 
cam belt thatd broken. When Mr K took it to the garage whod serviced his car before he 
was told there was a second cam belt  which Mr K wasnt aware of. The mechanic working 
on his car called Acromas and asked if theyd cover the cost of the repair  but Acromas said 
they wouldnt as the cam belt hadnt been changed in line with the manufacturers guidance. 
So, Mr K complained.
Acromas replied to the complaint and reiterated that the second cam belt felt under an 
exclusion for regular maintenance of the car. So, because of this, they wouldnt be meeting 
his claim.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and asked us to look into things  adding that he didnt think the 
terms Acromas were relying on were clear. One of our investigators did so but found that 
Acromas had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr K didnt accept this and said the cam belt isnt listed in the part of the policy that talks 
about the car requiring regular maintenance. Mr K also said hed looked at the general terms 
which would exclude things for poor maintenance but said they cant fairly be applied in his 
case as he was getting his car serviced. Mr K added the issue only came about because of 
an issue a layman couldnt possibly be expected to know and that even registered and 
certified garages dont know. So, on that basis, he thought it was unfair not to pay the claim.
Because of that, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that, if Im satisfied the policy terms have been applied fairly then 
I wont be recommending Acromas pay Mr Ks claim.
The relevant policy terms say:
Under the heading Your policy in detail it says, in bold It is a requirement that 
any vehicles covered under this policy are serviced regularly and in line with 
the manufacturers recommended schedules.
And under General Exclusions (This policy will not cover): it says 5. Repairs to the 
nominated vehicle if you are unable to provide proof that it has been serviced 
regularly (sic) in line with the manufactures schedules., and 7. Any faults due to the 
poor maintenance of the Nominated Vehicle, for example but not limited to cam belt 
failure and any resulting damage, when it cannot be established that the belt has 
been changed according to the manufacturers recommendations.
Under the General conditions applicable to this policy it says The Nominated 
Vehicle must be serviced according to the manufacturers recommendations 
(including service intervals). Service and mileage records are taken from the date the 
vehicle is first nominated for AA Parts and Garage Cover. Invoices from a servicing 
garage will be accepted as proof of servicing and such invoices may be required by 
the Claims Department at the time claims are made. Stamped service books are not 
acceptable proof. It is Your responsibility to find out the Nominated Vehicles 
servicing requirements and to comply with them.
In addition to these three elements which talk about Mr Ks situation, under the frequently 
asked questions of the policy the first question asks, Do I have to keep my vehicle serviced 
regularly?.
Overall then, I think Acromas have provided enough information for me to reasonably say 
this was clear enough for Mr K.
As for whether theyve applied the terms correctly Im satisfied they have. The information 
from the mechanic says the second cam belt wasnt changed. Ive a significant amount of 
sympathy for Mr Ks situation  as I do understand why hed say its not fair for his claim to 
be turned down when experts wont always know this. But, at the same time, I dont think I 
can say Acromas have acted unfairly by saying this is a maintenance issue. And, as Im also 
satisfied its a maintenance issue, the policy terms are clear in excluding that from cover.
Ive noted Mr Ks concerns about the cam belt not being listed in the policy as something that 
needed to be serviced  but I also dont think itd be reasonable to expect every aspect of a 
car to be listed in the way Mr K has suggested. That said I note the cam belt failure is one 
specific aspect that is listed as excluded where it cant be evidenced it was changed in line 
with the manufacturers recommendations  as is the situation here.
Mr K is also concerned that he was getting his car serviced  so thinks relying on poor 
maintenance cant fairly be used as a reason not to pay the claim. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained above Im satisfied Acromas have turned his claim down fairly, so I wont be 
asking them to pay his costs.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman