DRN-3435167
The complaint
T and Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him fee-paying 
Additions Active and Premier Life packaged bank accounts in February 2009 and June 
2010.
T and Mr A has given a number of reasons why he says they were mis-sold. These include 
that he was forced into taking out the Additions Active account when he didnt want it and he 
says that the Premier Life upgrade happened without his consent.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked 
for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
For the sake of brevity, I will refer to T and Mr A throughout this decision simply as Mr A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it might also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, 
as is the case here, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have happened based 
on everything that is available. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think the accounts were 
mis-sold  largely for the same reasons that the adjudicator gave. I will explain why.
Additions Active account
Mr A has said that he was made to agree to the account even though he didnt want it. 
However, Ive not seen any evidence to support this. I note that Mr A held a fee-free account 
with an overdraft for a few years before the upgrade of his account. So I think he was 
generally aware that fee-free accounts were available to him, when he agreed to the 
Additions Active account. As such, when deciding what I think most likely happened, I think 
its more likely that Mr A was given a fair choice when agreeing to the account.
Based on what both parties have said, I understand the Additions Active account was sold 
on a non-advised basis. This means that Barclays didnt have to check if it was right for Mr 
As circumstances. But it did have to give him important information so he could decide this 
for himself.
At the time the Additions Active account cost £14 per month and provided benefits such as 
worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance, extended warranty 
and cardholder protection. It also provided non-insurance benefits such as a £300 interest 
free overdraft facility, and reduced interest rates (compared to what was charged on fee-free 
accounts) on balances overdrawn by more than £300  up to the agreed limit. 
I cant be sure what information Mr A was given during the sale. But I think its likely that 
Barclays wouldve given Mr A at least some information about the account benefits during 
the sale. After all Barclays wouldve wanted to make the account seem attractive  so that 
hed agree to it. And given that Mr A went on to claim on the breakdown cover twice in 2010, 
this clearly shows he was given enough information to know that he had this cover in place 
and also how to go about making a claim. It also seems likely that Mr A was given 
information about the overdraft benefit  as I can see that Mr A was regularly using his 
overdraft before and after the upgrade, so I think this benefit wouldve also been of use to Mr 
A.
Due to the lack of evidence, I accept that its possible Mr A may not have been given all of 
the important information about the account during the sale. However, Ive not seen anything 
about his circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had Barclays given him even more information about the account 
and the associated benefits.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to say that the Additions Active 
account was mis-sold to Mr A.
Premier Life account
Mr A says that his upgrade took place without his consent. However, the adjudicator shared 
with Mr A the documents from when the account was sold, and these clearly show that a 
discussion took place with Mr A, and he agreed to the account based on what was 
discussed with the member of staff. So Im satisfied that Mr A did agree to the upgrade. 
The documents from the sale show that it was made clear to Mr A that fee-free alternatives 
were available to him and that the Premier Life account was optional. So I think Mr A agreed 
to it knowing he didnt have to. Afterall, if Mr A thought he had to have a packaged account 
(but didnt want one) I wouldve expected him to have stayed on the cheaper Additions 
Active account, rather than agree to an even more expensive account.
The account was sold on a non-advised basis. So I have gone on to consider whether its 
likely Barclays gave Mr A important information about the account.
The Premier Life cost £25 per month and provided worldwide travel insurance, breakdown 
cover including European cover, mobile phone insurance, home SOS cover, extended 
warranty, gadget cover, cardholder protection insurance, will-writing service, legal helpline, 
Market Master (from Barclays stockbrokers), airport VIP lounge access, lifestyle 
management, identity support, childrens healthcare cover (optional purchase) and up to 
£1000 interest free overdraft with preferential rates above that of 12.9% EAR (against 
standard Barclays overdraft rate of 19.5% EAR).
The sales documents indicate that Mr A was made aware that the account would cost £25 
per month. And it seems that he agreed to the account because of the travel insurance and 
airport lounge access, as well as the overdraft benefit. So I think Mr A was likely to have 
been given information about the key benefits of the account, and it also seems that at least 
some of the details were discussed with him  for example, it appears that he was told he 
needed to register if he wanted to benefit from the airport lounge passes.
Again I cant be sure if Mr A was given all of the important information that he shouldve 
been given. But Ive also not seen anything about his circumstances that makes me think he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even more 
information about it. So again, based on everything I have seen, I dont think that the 
account was mis-sold.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr A may now feel that the packaged 
accounts were poor value for money and he now regrets agreeing to them. But that in itself 
doesnt mean that they were mis-sold or that Barclays was wrong to have sold them to him, 
when it did.Mr A says that hed asked about downgrading the Premier Life account whilst he held it and 
says he was told he had to keep the account. Its not clear when exactly Mr A asked about 
his account. But I can see that the account was downgraded on 28 October 2010, but was 
then upgraded back to a Premier Life account on 4 November 2010. I dont know why this 
happened, but I can see that the account was subsequently returned back to being a fee-
free account on 30 November 2010 and Mr A wasnt charged for the short time he had the 
Premier Life account in November 2010. As such, Im unable to say that Mr A lost out from 
this, if the account was upgraded again in error.
Finally, Mr A has asked for compensation as he has found going through the complaints 
process stressful and has taken up a lot of his time. Im sorry to hear this, but Ive not seen 
anything specific in this complaint that makes me think that an award of compensation is 
warranted. I say this bearing in mind that there is usually an element of inconvenience 
caused whenever making a complaint that doesnt warrant compensation.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the Additions Active or the Premier 
Life packaged accounts were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman