DRN-3693333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money Mr W lost as a result 
of a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision:
Mr W was looking to invest and was in contact with a business which Ill call C.  He 
was told hed have access to a trading platform which hed be able to trade from. 
Between January 2021 and March 2021 Mr W invested over £17,000.  The payments 
werent made directly to C but via different business. 
Mr W raised a scam claim when C refused to return any funds. HSBC asked Mr W to 
provide information so it could pursue a chargeback. After several months, it 
informed Mr W it couldnt raise a chargeback as the party paid wasnt the party that 
provided the service, or held itself out as providing the service, to him. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. He wasnt persuaded Mr W 
enjoyed chargeback rights under the relevant scheme; and he didnt think the 
payments were so unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, such that he thought 
HSBC ought to have intervened in them. However, when sending its file to us, HSBC 
acknowledged there were service failings in relation to the chargeback and offered 
£200 compensation which the investigator thought was fair. 
Mr W disagreed and has asked for the matter to be escalated. He says that a 
different party was paid was made clear when he raised the scam with HSBC, and he 
provided evidence of his payment interactions with C. He questions whether HSBC 
even contacted the recipient bank and says the service wasnt provided as it was a 
different party was paid. 
The matter has now been referred to me for determination. This decision only concerns the 
card payments in connection with payments to C. Mr and Mrs W also have another 
complaint with us concerning other payments and a freeze on their account. That complaint 
will be dealt with separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they have been duped into making that payment. There is no dispute that Mr 
W made the payments, and so they were authorised. 
I agree with the investigator that HSBC wasnt being unreasonable when it decided 
not to pursue Mr Ws chargeback claim. Mr W says he was scammed by C.  But Mr 
W didnt pay C, he paid three different parties. His chargeback claim that a real 
trading platform wasnt provided cant be made against the three parties paid, as they 
never purported to provide that service.  I appreciate this is incredibly frustrating for 
Mr W, not least because he didnt realise he was paying different parties until he saw 
his statements.  And it isnt entirely clear what part the three different parties had to 
play; it appears they may have been crypto currency providers or payment 
facilitators. But Im nevertheless satisfied a chargeback claim had no reasonable 
prospect of success. 
HSBC acknowledges there were delays in its handling of the chargeback claim and 
thats why, when sending its file to this office, it made an offer of £200. I agree there 
were delays, and it seems to me it could have told Mr W far sooner than it did that it 
wouldnt be able to pursue a chargeback claim. Overall, I find £200 a fair reflection of 
the impact of those delays. 
I have also considered whether HSBC breached any duty or obligation to protect its 
customers from the risk of financial harm from fraud or scams. If it did HSBC might 
be liable for its customers losses. 
I have therefore considered the operation of the account. In the months leading up to 
the disputed transactions, payments of much higher sums were being paid to other 
investment providers.  Payments were made using different payment methods, 
including by card; and some of them were international. On occasion Mr W was also 
making more than one payment to the same merchant on the same day. In that 
context, the payments albeit to new payees, werent so unusual or uncharacteristic, 
such that I think HSBCs fraud alert systems ought to have been triggered, or 
payments paused pending an intervention from the bank and discussions had about 
them.  As such Im not persuaded HSBC should have done anything to prevent the 
loss. 
Mr W questions whether HSBC contacted the recipient bank to try and recover his 
funds. But Mr W didnt pay a bank when making the transactions and it isnt its role to 
contact C when C wasnt the party paid. But even if HSBC should have contacted the 
recipients, which I make clear I dont find it should, Mr W didnt report the scam until 
five days after the final payment was made. In my experience of deciding scam 
complaints, money obtained by scammers is usually withdrawn in a matter of hours, 
if not minutes. The chances of any of Mr Ws funds remaining was extremely remote. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair offer to resolve this complaint. I 
require it to pay Mr and Mrs W £200. Payment should be made within 28 days of their 
acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman