DRN-3841017
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) was irresponsible when it
increased his credit limit.
What happened
NewDay opened a credit card account for Mr S in April 2020 with a credit limit of £450. This
type of credit was an open-ended or running account facility. NewDay subsequently
increased Mr Ss credit limit to £950 in August 2020; £1,950 in December 2020, and £3,200
in April 2021.
Mr S said that NewDay increased his credit limit to unsustainable levels despite him not
having a good credit record. Mr S also said that he has been seriously impacted by this and
doesnt know how hes going to repay what he now owes.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that it is an instant credit provider and most
of its applications are completed online. This means that it doesnt require evidence of
income and expenditure by way of bank statements, for example, but instead it uses data
submitted by the applicant and information from their credit file. NewDay says that it
therefore based its assessment on what Mr S said about his income, its estimate of his
expenditure and what it could see on his credit file. It said that Mr S met its acceptance
criteria. It opened his account with a £450 balance and offered him opt-outs when it
increased his balance on subsequent occasions.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator assessed the complaint and found that
NewDay should have gone further in its affordability checks when it increased Mr Ss credit
limit. They concluded that, had proportionate checks been carried out on these occasions,
NewDay would have learnt by December 2020 that Mr S wasnt likely to be able to repay
further credit without difficulty. They concluded that NewDay shouldnt have carried out the
December 2020 increase or the increase in April 2021 and recommended that it pay Mr S
compensation.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators recommendation. It said that there wasnt anything
in the way Mr S was managing his account, or his other accounts, that caused it concern
and the credit offered was affordable for him. The complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2022 upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. Id 
provisionally concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when it increased the credit limit on 
Mr Ss account for the third time (in April 2021). I set out my proposals for putting things right 
for Mr S and allowed time for both parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new 
information they wished me to consider when making my final decision. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and NewDay hadnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having no new information to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional conclusions. Ill set out again my reasons for partly upholding Mr Ss 
complaint in this final decision on the matter.
As Id said in my provisional decision, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance 
on responsible lending (set out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, 
such as NewDay, need to abide by. NewDay will be aware of these, and our approach to this 
type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but 
will summarise them.
Before increasing the limit on Mr Ss credit card, NewDay needed to check that he could
afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time,
without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr Ss
circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that NewDay needed to pay due regard to Mr Ss interests
and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
NewDay said that it asked Mr S about his income, estimated his expenses and included
information from his credit file about his existing debt repayments when he applied for his
credit card account. It recorded Mr Ss monthly income as £1,567 and his existing debt as
£1,500. It also noted he had £1,900 of defaulted debt with the latest default being 21 months 
ago. The application information records that Mr S was living with his parents. In August 
2020, NewDay increased Mr Ss limit from £450 to £950.
NewDay said it conducted in-depth assessments of Mr Ss credit performance before each
credit limit increase. The assessments considered how Mr S was managing his account and
it said the checks were in-line with the regulations. NewDay also said that Mr S used his
card mainly for retail spending, with a lower proportion of cash spending. It said that many of
the payments he made were over and above the contractual minimum payment required.
Ive reviewed the account history and customer contact notes NewDay provided. I can see
that Mr S paid more than the minimum payment of £5 each month prior to this increase,
paying at least £100. His balance was less than half the credit limit though he was generally
spending more than he repaid. The customer notes show that Mr S enquired about a credit
limit increase in July 2020 and was told that hed be offered an increase after six months.
Mr S then requested a credit limit increase to £600 in early August but was declined. He was
offered the increase to £950 a few weeks after this.
NewDay also gathered information from Mr Ss credit file. It seems his balances on other
accounts was decreasing, and he had no adverse information recorded.
Altogether, I agree with NewDay that there wasnt anything in the information it had which
indicated that Mr S was having problems managing his money. And the amount of credit
offered wasnt so great relative to his declared salary that there was an obvious risk to Mr S
of having difficulty repaying it within a reasonable period of time. So I dont think NewDay
was irresponsible here when it offered Mr S this increase.In December 2020, NewDay increased Mr Ss limit from £950 to £1,950. I appreciate that
Mr S had been making more than the minimum payment required prior to this but his
balance had nevertheless increased. It seems from the account records that Mr S had been
declined for credit increases in September (of £1,400), October and November (of £1,100).
In December Mr S called to ask about an offer to increase his credit limit early. The notes
say that Mr S was accepted for an increase after confirming his financial situation wasnt
expected to change.
I dont know how NewDay verified what Mr S said about his financial situation. Given the
amount of credit NewDay was now agreeing for Mr S and the fact that hed asked repeatedly
for credit limit increases, I think it would have been proportionate for it to understand what
Mr Ss actual means were, to assess whether he would be able to meet his repayments
without difficulty within a reasonable period of time.
NewDay said it checked its figures using a credit reference agency tool which considers
current account turnover. I appreciate that it sense-checked what Mr S had said about his
income and expenditure, but I cant see that NewDay verified his income or asked Mr S
about his expenses.
Mr S has provided his bank statements for his current account and Ive reviewed these to get
an understanding of what NewDay might have found out had it carried out a proportionate
check. To be clear, Im not suggesting this is what NewDay ought to have done but, in the
absence of any other evidence such as payslips, benefit letters or rent or mortgage
statements for example, I think this information is a reasonable proxy.
The bank statements show that Mr S was earning about £1,640 a month around that time
and didnt have many financial commitments. I can identify bill payments of around £170 and
a regular transfer to a person referenced bills of £200. He also transferred several hundred
pounds regularly to a person referenced savings. Mr S explained to us that he was saving
for a holiday.
The remaining spend includes travel and food, and entertainment including gambling. For
example, in November 2020 Mr S spent about £250 on takeaways and eating out and about
£370 on gambling. I dont think NewDay would have considered that Mr S was spending so
much on any particular activity that there was a risk that he would be unable to meet his
repayments for this level of credit without difficulty. I think its likely it would have offered
Mr S this increase even if it had looked further into his circumstances before lending to him.
Altogether, I dont think NewDay acted irresponsibly here.
Mr S continued to ask for credit increases  he was declined for a limit of £2,500 in February 
2021 and the same in March. The account history shows that Mr S transferred £100 from his 
Marbles account to his current account in April, and that he continued to pay significantly 
more than the minimum payment each month.
In April 2021, NewDay offered Mr S an increased credit limit of £3,200 which he accepted.
As before, I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate of NewDay to have
asked Mr S for evidence of his means, given the amount of credit it was now offering and
Mr Ss continued requests for limit increases.
Ive reviewed Mr Ss bank statements from around this time, which show that while his
identifiable financial commitments remained relatively low, he was spending significant
amounts on gambling, for example Mr S spent more than £1,000 on gambling in March 2021
and over £1,200 in April. I can see from the statements that Mr S immediately spent his £100
money transfer from his Marbles account on gambling.NewDay said in response to our investigators conclusions that had it seen this type of spend
it would not have caused it to act any differently than it did, given Mr Ss impeccable account
management internally and externally. It also said that Mr S was meeting his commitments
and it was up to Mr S how he spent his disposable income.
I can agree with this perspective up to a point. However, as NewDay will know, it was
obliged to assess whether there was a risk to Mr S having difficulty meeting his payments
out of his usual means. I think that risk would have been evident to NewDay by April 2021, 
had it carried out a proportionate check, given the amount Mr S was now spending on 
gambling relative to his income. Furthermore, I dont think providing Mr S with credit in such 
circumstances would amount to treating him fairly and with due regard to his interests. 
Altogether, Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible to have increased Mr Ss limit on 
this occasion, and it needs to take steps to put things right for him.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that NewDay was irresponsible when increased Mr Ss limit in April 2021 from
£1,950 to £3,200. In order to put Mr S back into the position he would have been in had this
not happened means he shouldnt have to pay any interest or charges on credit granted over
his existing limit of £1,950. 
In summary, NewDay should:
Rework Mr Ss account to remove all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £1,950; and
oIf the effect of this reworking results in a credit balance, then this should be 
refunded to Mr S along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from 
the date they were made to the date of settlement. In this case, NewDay 
should remove any adverse information reported to Mr Ss credit file after 
April 2021; or
oIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay needs to ensure that Mr S is only liable for this 
adjusted balance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with him. Once 
Mr S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after April 2021 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partly upholding Mr Ss complaint about NewDay Ltd 
trading as Marbles and it should now take the steps Ive outlined to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman