DRN-1429662
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
What happened
Miss T took out car insurance with Admiral which started in September 2018. Miss T entered 
into a credit agreement to pay her premium in monthly instalments by direct debit.
Admiral said that Miss Ts bank refused to pay the 1 July 2019 instalment. Admiral wrote to 
Miss T explaining they would try to take payment again and told her to make sure she had 
sufficient funds in her account. Admiral tried to take the instalment again on 11 July. But 
Miss Ts bank rejected that attempt on 18 July because Miss T had insufficient money in her 
account. Admiral wrote to Miss T on 18 July saying the credit agreement had been cancelled 
and she had to pay the remaining premium in full by 1 August 2019 otherwise her policy 
would be cancelled.
Miss T tried to make the payment on 1 August but was told the policy had already been 
cancelled. Admiral said they had told Miss T she had to pay the remaining balance by 1 
August, which meant before that date. Miss T complained. She said the information in 
Admirals letters wasnt clear especially in relation to the due by dates.
Admiral didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. Miss T brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Admirals actions were reasonable. As Miss T 
didn't agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The premium instalment due on 1 July 2019 wasnt paid to Admiral by Miss Ts bank. On 
4 July Admiral wrote to Miss T. They said: 
We will apply for this overdue instalment within 7 days from the date of this letter. 
This may take up to 10 days to appear on your account so please make sure money 
is available and remains available until we collect this outstanding premium. 
Admiral attempted to take the instalment on 11 July. But Miss Ts bank rejected that on 
18 July because there was insufficient money in Miss Ts account. Miss T said her 
understanding from Admirals letter was that the 10 days they mentioned would start from 
4 July, the date of the letter. So, her understanding was that Admiral would take the 
instalment and it would show on her account by 14 July. She said she had damaged her 
phone that week and was unable to access her online banking. And because she thought 
Admiral would have taken the instalment at the latest by 14 July, she spent her money after 
that date.
Miss T believes Admiral tried to take the instalment on 16 July. But thats not the case. 
Admiral tried to take it on 11 July. But Miss Ts bank processed Admirals application on 
16 July and rejected it on 18 July. I dont think Admirals letter of 4 July was unclear. It said 
Admiral would apply for the instalment within seven days of the letter. And it may take up to 
10 days for it (the transaction) to appear on Miss Ts account. I understand Miss T said she 
didnt have access to online banking because her phone was damaged. But ultimately it was 
Miss Ts responsibility to ensure she had enough money in her account to pay the 
instalment. I think Miss T should have taken extra care especially as there had already been 
one missed payment on 1 July. If she was unable to use online banking on her phone, she 
could have used other means to find out whether or not the payment had been made.
Miss Ts credit agreement with Admiral says:
3 You will be in Default under the Agreement:
(a) If any Direct Debits are refused by the Bank/Building Society within any policy 
term.
or
(b) Should you fail to maintain an instruction to pay Direct Debits and such a failure is 
not corrected as requested, within the permitted time.
4 The whole of the outstanding balance on the account will become immediately due 
and payable:
(a) Upon notice by us that you are in Default under the Agreement
Important
In the event of the outstanding balance on the account remaining unpaid for 14 days 
after it has fallen due then we will cancel Policy (Policies) of Insurance. 
As two direct debit payments were missed in July 2019, Admiral were entitled to hold Miss T 
in default. And they did that in a letter to her dated 18 July 2019. In that they said:
 you are now in breach of the Credit Agreement which applies to all payments by 
instalments. This means that your whole policy will cancel unless you take action.

In order for your policy to continue, you must pay the total amount due (see below) 
by the 01/08/2019 or your whole policy will be cancelled. If this is not possible, please 
contact us on the telephone number above to discuss this situation or to make 
payment.
Important Information
According to General Condition 4 of Your Car Insurance Guide, this is your FORMAL 
14 DAYS NOTICE OF CANCELLATION OF YOUR POLICY. We will cancel your 
policy from 00:01 hours on 01/08/2019, if we do not receive your payment of the 
outstanding balance by this date. [The underlined text is my emphasis]
Miss T said the letter wasnt clear as she thought she could make payment on 1 August. And 
when she called to pay the outstanding balance on 1 August, she was told the policy had 
already been cancelled.
I disagree with Miss T as I think Admirals letter was clear. It said, We will cancel your policy 
from 00:01 hours on 01/08/2019, if we do not receive your payment of the outstanding 
balance by this date. The letter told her the policy would be cancelled from the first minute of 1 August. Or, in other words, straight after midnight on 31 July. I think the letter was clear 
enough in saying she had to pay on a day before 1 August. Given there had already been 
two missed direct debit payments; Admiral had cancelled the credit agreement; and they 
were now threatening to cancel the policy, I think Miss T should have taken more care in 
complying with what was asked of her in that letter. I think Admiral treated Miss T fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman