DRN-3244847
The complaint
Ms G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) reported a default on her credit 
file many years after it should have done.  
What happened
Ms G had a loan with RBS. She experienced financial difficulties and her account was 
transferred to RBS recoveries team in March 2009. Ms G accepts that her credit file would 
have been affected at that time and says that any default should have been applied then and 
then removed after six years. However, a default was applied in 2018 which Ms G says 
caused her extreme distress and affected her mental and financial health. She says the 
default being applied meant she couldnt access lower rate credit and was trapped paying a 
high rate mortgage. She says she was advised not to apply for further credit as she would be 
declined due to the default. Ms G says she made several attempts to have the default 
removed but her complaints werent properly considered, and she kept being told that the 
information had been recorded correctly. 
RBS said that a default wouldnt have been applied when it accepted her Common Financial 
Statement offer unless the arrangement was suspended. It says that the arrangement was 
suspended in May 2010 and that the account should have been defaulted at that point. Had 
this happened the default would have been removed in 2016. It accepted that the default 
being applied in 2018 was a mistake and said that it would take action to remove Ms Gs 
account from being reported to the credit reference agencies and sent her a cheque of £350 
for the distress and inconvenience she had experienced. It said if there was further impact 
caused solely by this issue she should provide evidence of this and it could be considered 
further. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted the actions RBS had taken to remove the 
account from Ms Gs credit file and to pay her £350 but thought that a further £350 
compensation should be paid.
RBS agreed with our investigators view.
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators view. She said that her disputes and attempts to put 
things right were ignored over an extended period. She said she was given advice not to 
apply for further credit as the default would exclude her from reasonably priced mortgage 
products. She says that the misreporting from 2018 to 2021 caused her to be trapped in a 
high rate mortgage and caused her a great deal of suffering.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the distressing time Ms G has experienced. I appreciate how 
difficult it will have been for her to deal with the issue of the default being applied after the 
period of financial difficulties she had previously experienced. 
My role is to consider each complaint based on its individual merits and where a mistake has 
been made ensure that the consumer is put back in the position they would have been had 
the mistake not been made and, where appropriate, award compensation. In this case RBS 
has accepted that a mistake was made and that a default should have been applied in 2010 
and as such would have been removed from Ms Gs credit file in 2016. While not having a 
default applied to her credit file during this period may have been advantageous to Ms G, I 
also accept that it was during this period that she was experiencing financial difficulties and 
her credit file would have reflected this.
However, a default wasnt applied in 2010 and instead was applied years later in 2018. RBS 
accepted that the default shouldnt have been applied in 2018 and said Ms Gs credit file 
would be amended. This puts her credit file back in the position it would have been had this 
mistake not been made. However, Ms G has explained that because of the default she was 
unable to change her mortgage to a lower interest rate and was advised not to apply for 
other lower rate credit. 
This issue has caused Ms G distress and affected her mental health. She has spent time 
trying to get the default information reconsidered but has felt that her requests have been 
ignored. I understand that she contacted the credit reference agencies to try to get the issue 
looked into and feels let down that action wasnt taken at that time. Given the distress and 
inconvenience I agree that further compensation (additional to the £350 offered by RBS in its 
final response letter) is required.
Our investigator recommended that a further £350 be paid and RBS agreed to this. I 
understand that Ms G doesnt feel this is enough. However, I think this is reasonable. I say 
this because Ms G will have benefitted from not having the default recorded in 2010 
although I accept there were other issues affecting her credit file at that time. I also note that 
when she raised her complaint with RBS in April 2021, it took steps in its final response letter 
to try to put Ms G back in the position she would have been had the default not been applied 
in 2018. 
Against this Ms G has explained that she was advised not to get further credit following the 
recording of the default in 2018 which means I do not have evidence that I can use to 
quantify a financial loss but I accept that Ms G experienced a period of time when she felt 
unable to access alternative credit that may have reduced her costs and was caused anxiety 
and stress due to the default. 
Overall, based on the reasons set out above, I think that a further £350 is reasonable in this 
case. 
Putting things right
RBS should (additional to its initial cheque for £350 and the removal of the loan from Ms Gs 
credit file), pay Ms G a further £350 for her distress and inconvenience since the default was 
applied in 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman