DRN-3549875
The complaint
Mr D complains that he is being chased for arrears by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
which he doesnt believe he owes as he was offered a payment arrangement during the 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr D was placed on furlough in April 2020 and contacted Barclays to arrange a payment 
holiday on his mortgage. This was agreed in respect of April, May and June 2020.  A further 
payment holiday was agreed for July, August and September 2020. In October 2020, Mr Ds 
furlough was extended so he contacted Barclays again to ask for further assistance. 
However, he was unable to speak to someone for some time as the phone lines were busy 
and he was unavailable to speak when Barclays called him back. 
When Mr D initially managed to speak to someone in November, a further payment holiday 
extension request was submitted by Barclays advisor, who hadnt established that he had 
already had the maximum period of six months. When Mr D spoke to Barclays again, he was 
told that the previous actions taken had therefore been incorrect and the only assistance it 
could offer at that stage was a three-month interest-only arrangement, which he agreed to. 
Mr D contacted Barclays again on 8 January 2021 to request an extension to the interest-
only period and he says that he was told that this would be fine. In February, Barclays 
advised Mr D that he was behind on his mortgage payments, and this continued into March. 
Mr Ds mortgage product was ending in April 2020 so he took out a new product. When he 
did so, Barclays charged him the product fee three times.
Mr D says that he then received continuous calls from Barclays requesting payment of the 
outstanding balance of over £5,600, which he says was comprised of the three product fees 
and the shortfall from January onwards when his mortgage should have been interest-only 
for a further three months. Mr D says that it is extremely stressful as he is being chased for 
money which he doesnt owe. He would like his account to be corrected so that the interest-
only option is applied from January 2021 and the two additional product fees are removed. 
He does not believe that he owes the arrears of £5,600.
Barclays looked into Mr Ds complaint and apologised for the poor customer service he had 
received. It said that when Mr D contacted it in November 2020, the payment for October 
2020 was outstanding and it was explained to Mr D that, in order to back-date the 
arrangement to include October, he would be required to pay the interest-only portion of the 
October payment immediately. However, he was unable to do this which is where the 
arrears commenced. The arrangement was therefore put in place for Mr D to pay the interest 
only for November 2020, December 2020 and January 2021.
Barclays said that when Mr D contacted it again in January 2021 to discuss an extension to 
the interest-only arrangement, it was unable to agree to this. However, it agreed to a 
concession for the months of February and March 2021 whereby Mr D would pay a reduced 
payment of £750 a month, which he did.
Barclays accepted that it had not been explained to Mr D at this stage that the concession 
for February and March was an informal agreement and the outstanding amount between 
the normal monthly repayment and the amount paid would reflect as arrears (as opposed to 
the payment holiday programme and interest-only arrangement whereby the balance of the 
normal monthly payment was capitalised). It says that it is this which led to the release of 
arrears correspondence.  
Barclays explained that, whilst payments capitalised under the payment holiday programme 
and under the interest-only arrangement would not affect Mr Ds credit file, the arrears 
reported for October 2020, February and March 2021 were factual and could not be 
removed from his credit file. 
Barclays also accepted that it had charged the £999 product fee to Mr D three times in error 
and corrected this by reversing £1,998 on the account. 
In total, Barclays has offered Mr D £500 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by these errors (£200 paid in April 2021 and a further £300 offered in 
June 2021). 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds case and concluded that Barclays had dealt with his 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything more. She found that Barclays hadnt acted 
unfairly by not backdating the interest-only arrangement to October, as Mr D had not made 
any payment towards his mortgage in October 2020. The investigator also found that the 
difference between the CMP and the concession agreed in February and March wasnt 
capitalised and would therefore reflect as arrears. She therefore didnt find that Barclays had 
acted unfairly by letting Mr D know that there were arrears due on the account.  Whilst the 
investigator appreciated that the customer journey experienced by Mr D had been poor, she 
believed that the £500 offered by Barclays for the trouble, upset and inconvenience caused 
was a fair amount.
Mr D disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. He says that his 
account went into arrears in October as he could not get through to Barclays and the matter 
was resolved once he spoke to Barclays in November. He also says that Barclays confirmed 
in January that he could continue on an interest-only basis and that it later accepted this in a 
call in April 2021. Mr D says that he would not have got into arrears had Barclays advised 
him correctly in January 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigators 
view for broadly the same reasons and Ive explained my reasons further below.
I will deal firstly with the situation which arose in October 2020 and then with January 2021.
October 2020
By October 2020, Mr D had already been given the maximum payment holiday of six months 
allowed under the COVID-19 provisions and Im satisfied that it was not possible for this to 
be extended for a further period of time at this stage.
I can see that Mr D was sent a letter by Barclays on 14 September 2020 informing him that 
his payment holiday was ending that month and that his repayments would start again in 
October 2020 if it didnt hear from him. The letter stated that, unlike the temporary 
coronavirus support he had had so far, any payment arrangements it agreed to going 
forward may be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies and could increase his mortgage 
balance. The letter also set out that Mr D had still been charged interest during the payment 
holiday, which was added to his total balance every month  so the amount he owed on his 
mortgage had increased. Mr D was advised in the letter that his new monthly payments from 
October 2020 would be £2,359.23.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr D and Barclays in November 2020. During the calls, Mr 
D explained that he had made a number of calls in October but hadnt been called back and said that he had been unable to take the call on the one occasion when Barclays had called 
back. I can also see that he was initially given the wrong information about whether he could 
extend the payment holiday for a further three months and that an application was made in 
order to extend this. 
During the last call in November 2020, Mr D refers to having been told by this stage that he 
couldnt have a further payment holiday but said that he was now receiving notice of arrears. 
He said that he should have been put on interest-only from October and that he would only 
be in arrears by £679 if it was just interest-only but this wasnt applied so it was the whole 
amount that had become due. 
Barclays told Mr D that it could backdate an interest-only period so it ran for October, 
November and December but that Mr D would then need to make the interest payment for 
October. Mr D asked if he could split the October payment as otherwise he would have to 
make two payments in November but he was told that Barclays couldnt do this if it was 
backdating the interest-only arrangement. Barclays said that the alternative was to leave the 
three-month interest-only period as being for November, December and January and then 
discuss the October payment on a future date which it could potentially look at spreading. Mr 
D rejected this suggestion as he said that this would be the full CMP of £2,359 so said it 
would work out more difficult for him in the long run. He therefore said that he would look at 
how he could come up with the rest of the money by the end of November to bring it all up to 
date and confirmed that he was happy for the interest-only arrangement to be backdated to 
October, November and December. 
Whilst I accept that Mr D may have struggled to speak to someone at Barclays during 
October 2020, I think he would have been aware that he needed to make a mortgage 
payment for the month of October as this was set out in the letter he received along with the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) which would be due of £2,359.23. Having listened to the 
calls, Mr D was also aware that the interest-only element of the CMP was around £679. 
However, Mr D didnt make any payment at all towards the mortgage in October which 
meant the account went into arrears by the full CMP. 
At the time the interest-only arrangement was put in place in November, Mr D was aware 
that  in order for it to be backdated to start in October  he would have to pay the interest 
for October. I am satisfied from listening to the call that Mr D was aware that, if this was not 
done and the arrangement commenced in November, the full CMP of £2,359 would be due. I 
say this as Mr D said that starting the arrangement in November would make it more difficult 
for him in the long run as then the full CMP for October would be due, so he said he would 
pay October and Novembers interest by the end of November. However, only one payment 
for interest-only was made in November. Therefore, the interest-only period could not be 
backdated until October. 
Im satisfied that the CMP for October was not paid and I dont think Barclays has acted 
unfairly in claiming that Mr Ds account was therefore £2,359.23 in arrears at this point. 
In November, the CMP was £2,359.23 but Barclays manually adjusted this by £1,680.02 to 
reflect the fact that only interest was being paid, so the figure due was calculated to be 
£679.21. Mr D made a payment of £679.71 (50p more than the figure due) so at this point 
the arrears went down slightly to £2,358.73.
For December and January, the manual adjustments to the account meant that the total 
amount due in respect of interest was £1,370.10. Mr D made a payment of £679.71 in each 
month (£10.68 less than the interest calculated) so at this point the arrears went up to 
£2,369.41.
January 2021
Mr Ds interest-only arrangement finished in January 2021 and, as Mr D had a six-month 
payment holiday and then three-month interest-only period applied to his mortgage, he had already had full COVID-19 support of nine months. This meant that Barclays couldnt put a 
further interest-only arrangement in place after January 2021 and it was only able to offer a 
concession at this stage, which meant that Mr D was able to pay an amount lower than the 
CMP by agreement. 
What should have happened during the call in January 2021 was that Barclays should have 
advised Mr M that the concession would mean that the remaining amount of the CMP would 
be classed as arrears and would therefore be reportable to credit reference agencies and 
may trigger arrears correspondence. 
Mr D says that he was advised that the interest-only period would continue to run until 
March. Whilst Ive listened to some of the calls between Barclays and Mr D in January 2021, 
the part of the call from 8 January 2021 in which the concession was agreed is no longer 
available. However, Barclays has already accepted that Mr D wasnt properly told about the 
fact that the outstanding amount between the CMP and the amount paid would reflect as 
arrears. So it is not necessary for me to make a specific finding on this point as Barclays 
accepts that it didnt provide all of the information it should have done. 
Ive gone on to consider what Mr D would have done had he been given the correct 
information during the call in January 2021. On balance I am satisfied that he still would 
have decided to take the concession. I say this because the interest-only arrangement was 
unable to be continued for any longer. Mr D remained on furlough and I think its likely that he 
couldnt have afforded to pay the full CMP, even if that meant that the remaining balance 
would be considered as arrears. I have also taken into account the fact that Mr D was unable 
to make any payment towards his mortgage in October 2020 even though he was advised 
over the phone that this would mean his account would go into arrears. So I dont think he 
would have done anything differently had he been given the correct information in January 
2021.
In February, the CMP was £2,383.22 and Mr D paid £750. So the arrears increased by 
£1,633.22 to £4,002.63. In March, the CMP was £2,397.32 and Mr D paid £750. So the 
arrears increased by £1,647.32 to £5,649.95. 
There was also an interest adjustment of £2.28 which meant that, at the end of March, the 
arrears were at £5,652.23. This accords with the statement of overdue account which Ive 
seen was sent to Mr D on 17 April 2021. There have been some marginal adjustments for 
interest calculations and Mr D has made some overpayments since this but this is broadly 
speaking the figure of £5,600 referred to by Mr D. 
Whilst I understand that Mr D feels that Barclays have added the £5,600 to his mortgage 
balance, I am satisfied for the reasons set out above that this is an accurate reflection of the 
arrears on the account, and that it does not relate to the duplicate fees charged as 
suggested by Mr D.
Barclays accepts that it did not properly explain the implications of the concession. However, 
as set out above, I think that he still would have opted for the concession even if the terms 
had been made clear. I accept that Mr Ds experience was poor and that the confusion over 
the terms of the concession was extremely frustrating for Mr D. Barclays has paid Mr D £500 
in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of its errors and I think that 
this is a fair amount in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Barclays to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman