DRN-2941969
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a payment made out of his account 
which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr C was trying to get his laptop repaired, so he filled in a number of enquiry 
forms with online repair companies. He then received a call from someone claiming to be 
from the company who manufactured his existing laptop, offering him the chance to trade it 
in towards the cost of a new laptop. After speaking with the caller, checking their profile on a 
social media website and messaging through the social media website, Mr C was sent what 
he thought was a transaction link for the payment for the new laptop to be made. But when 
he clicked on the link, he says his phone froze.
Mr C says he restarted his phone and saw a payment of £450 had been made out of his 
account in the callers name, rather than a normal internet payment, so he became 
suspicious. He says he asked the caller for a tracking number and delivery information for 
the new laptop but they werent very responsive so he reported the payment as fraud to 
HSBC. Mr C says he tried calling HSBC but couldnt get through and went to his local branch 
but they told him they couldnt help. He then went to another branch who told him theyd stop 
the payment but, when he didnt hear from them, he went to a third branch and was told 
theyd try to recover the payment but it was unlikely theyd get it back. Mr C says hes now 
found out that HSBC should have done more to help him, so he raised the issue again in 
2020.
HSBC says it investigated Mr Cs fraud claim in 2018 but had been unable to recover any of 
the money from the receiving bank so it couldnt help any further. Mr C wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt it was likely Mr C had authorised 
the payment and that it wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious, so HSBC wouldnt have 
been expected to do anything further before processing it. And they felt HSBC had done all it 
could to try to recover the payment. So they didnt think HSBC should have to refund the 
payment to Mr C. Mr C didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive I must make a decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr C says he didnt make this payment himself. He says the payment was made while his 
phone was frozen or turned off, after he clicked on a link the person hed been speaking to 
sent him. And he says he was told hed had to have his mobile banking app open on his 
phone before clicking on the link, for the payment to go through correctly.
HSBC has sent us evidence showing someone logging in to Mr Cs mobile banking app on 
the day the payment was made, which I assume is Mr C opening the app as he was told to 
do. The evidence then shows the new payee for the payment being set up using the same 
phone and IP address as was used to log-in to the app just before, and the same phone and 
IP address as was used to log-in on days both before and after the payment too.
But this isnt what Id expect to see if the payment had been made in the way Mr C 
describes. If they caller had remotely accessed his mobile banking, Id expect the phone and 
IP address to show different details, not Mr Cs own phone and IP address. And if the caller 
had taken over Mr Cs phone, Id expect the phone wouldnt have frozen and Mr C would 
have been able to see what the caller was doing on the screen.
In any event, Mr C says he thought the link hed been sent was a transaction link to allow the 
payment for the new laptop to be made. Hed also transferred £450 into his account just 
before the payment was made. And I cant see why hed transfer the required amount of 
money into his account, set up his mobile banking app as he was told and then click on the 
link, if he wasnt happy for the payment to be made.
So based on the evidence I have I think its likely Mr C made the payment himself, or was at 
least happy for it to be made  even if not in the exact way it was made and even if he was 
misled into doing so. And so I think he authorised the payment and the starting position in 
law is that HSBC was obliged to follow his instruction and process the payment. And Mr C 
isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having looked at the evidence of the previous activity on Mr Cs account, I dont think this 
payment of £450 was unusual or significantly out of line with his previous account spending. 
The payment wasnt for a particularly large amount of money. There were other payments 
for what I think are similar or larger amounts both going in and coming out of Mr Cs account 
in the months before the payment. And the payment didnt leave the balance of the account 
at an unusual level.
So I think its reasonable that HSBC didnt identify that Mr C was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of the payment and didnt carry out any further checks before processing it. And 
so I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to refund the payment to Mr C.Ive also looked at whether HSBC took reasonable steps to try to recover the money from 
the receiving bank, once it was told about the scam. Mr C says he called HSBC and went to 
his local branch immediately after he saw the payment had been made. But hes also said 
there was some communication between him and the caller after the payment was made 
and that he became suspicious as the caller wasnt as responsive as before. So some time 
must have passed for the callers lack of response to be suspicious. And Im surprised he 
became suspicious so quickly because, as I explained above, it appears he was happy for 
the payment to be made in some way at least.
Mr C says he was told HSBC couldnt handle his fraud claim on the phone as there were too 
many people calling and his local branch couldnt handle it as it was too small. He then went 
to a second branch and was told theyd put a stop on the payment. But HSBC doesnt have 
any record of any of these interactions with Mr C. The first record HSBC has of Mr C 
reporting the fraud is from two days after the payment was made. And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its likely this is the first time it was reported to HSBC.
After the fraud was reported, HSBCs records show it contacted the receiving bank within a 
reasonable period of time to try to recover the money. But the receiving bank replied that 
there was none of Mr Cs money left in its account. And the receiving bank told us the money 
was spent on card transactions within a few days of arriving into the account. So I think its 
unlikely HSBC could have done anything further to get Mr Cs money back.
I appreciate how Mr C feels about this case and that this decision will likely come as a 
disappointment to him. But, based on the evidence I have, I dont think it would be fair to 
require HSBC to refund the payment he says he didnt make.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman