DRN-3476479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that they were mis-sold an Additions Account (AA) in 1998 and an 
Additions Plus Account (APA) in 2007 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say that they had no option but to take out the two products and that they 
didnt need them.
Barclays says that Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the accounts based on the information it 
gave them.
Both parties agree these sales came about due to conversations in a branch. I wasnt 
present in the discussions so I can only base my decision on the evidence available today.
Mr and Mrs C had a fee free account for many years before taking out the AA. And fee free 
accounts were widely available and advertised by Barclays and other financial institutions at 
the time of both sales. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew they had a choice and chose to 
take out the AA and the APA based on the information Barclays provided.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances in 
either sale to indicate that that advice was given, or a recommendation made. And this 
service is aware that Barclays branch sales at the time of both sales were non-advised. So, 
while I accept that Barclays may have told Mr and Mrs C that taking out the AA and APA 
was a good idea, this is not the same as providing advice and recommendation.
So, I think its more likely than not that these were both non-advised sales.
This means that Barclays was only required on both occasions to provide Mr and Mrs C with 
enough information to make an informed choice.
And I think it did.
I say this because Barclays has provided evidence that it supplied an information pack to Mr 
and Mrs C on both sales and copious correspondence about updates and changes to the 
products thereafter. They couldve closed or downgraded the account any month but didnt 
for many years.
And I think its more likely than not that both products were of interest to Mr and Mrs C. I say 
this because when they took out the AA their account records show theyd been running an 
overdraft for some time. On Barclays free account at the time, they were being charged £5 
each month they were overdrawn. The AA only cost £5 a month and there was no charge for 
going overdrawn and better interest rates on the borrowing, plus the other benefits.
When they took out the APA, they went on to register mobile phones for insurance cover and 
use the travel insurance service, so they were clearly interested in these benefits.
So, overall, although I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed, I think its more likely than 
not that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in selling the AA and the APA to Mr and Mrs C.
For completeness, I note that Mr and Mrs C raised some issues about Barclays recent 
handling of the account they still hold, but they must raise these with the business first and 
then if the matter is unresolved they can bring them to this service separate to this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman