DRN-2339800
The complaint
Mr F is complaining on behalf of a company, K, that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  
(trading as Cashplus) wont refund transactions he didnt authorise.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 5 November 2019, further to raising concerns about a held payment on Twitter, 
Mr F was contacted by someone claiming to be from Cashplus  to sort out the issue 
hed been having. They also noted he had to log in and out to access two accounts  
and said they could sort this too, so he could manage his accounts under one 
platform. 
To do that, they took Mr F through security questions and said theyd need to access 
his accounts, so they asked for his passwords. They also said theyd need Mr F to 
share codes theyd send him by text. He followed these instructions. 
On 6 November 2019, between roughly 9:30am and 11:30am, three payments were 
made from Ks account  totalling £15,235.05. Two further payments were attempted 
but these didnt go through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, K isnt liable for payments that a 
director didnt authorise, unless they failed with gross negligence or intent to comply 
with the terms of the account or keep its personalised security details safe.
Cashplus hasnt disputed these transactions were unauthorised. Thats because
Mr F didnt complete the agreed steps to make the payments (or even realise they 
were being made at the time). Instead, it seems the fraudster made the payments 
using information they convinced Mr F to share by falsely saying they could sort out 
his complaint as well as making his accounts easier to manage.
I dont think Mr F failed with intent to keep Ks details safe  he genuinely believed 
what he was doing was necessary to sort out his complaint and to combine his 
accounts into one platform. 
Im also not satisfied Mr F failed with gross negligence. He received a call from 
Cashplus in response to a tweet complaining about an incoming payment that was 
being held. Its not unusual that genuine businesses reach out to customers who 
have raised concerns on social media  indeed, thats often why customers resort to 
it. So I can see why Mr F believed who he was speaking to and that they wanted to 
help him. I think lots of people wouldve done. 
Cashplus submit Mr Fs tweet meant the fraudster knew he was a Cashplus 
customer, as well as what his business was. Thats probably true. But Im mindful lots 
of people use social media to contact businesses, particularly when theyre 
disgruntled. So I cant say Mr Fs behaviour fell so far below what a reasonable 
person wouldve done. And given that K is a limited company with public records, I 
dont think it wouldve been particularly difficult for the fraudster to work out Mr Fs 
business  with or without the information in the tweet. 
To gain access to Mr Fs online account and make payments, the fraudster needed 
some of Mr Fs sensitive account information, like his password, as well as one time 
passwords sent to Mr F by text. 
They convinced him to share this information in two ways. Firstly, by saying theyd 
need access to his account to sort out his complaint about the held payment. 
Secondly, they offered to fix his online banking platform, so he could manage both of 
his accounts from one screen. 
This highlights the sophistication of the scam. They preyed on someone who they 
knew would be anxious to resolve an existing issue. And they offered to go above 
and beyond for them  and fix something else. Cleverly, this didnt sound too good to 
be true. If anything, it was a mundane IT issue that Mr F couldve turned down. 
This relief that theyd resolve Mr Fs concerns, combined with their familiarity with 
Cashpluss operations, all added to the plausibility and persuasiveness that they 
were who said they were. In this context, I can see how Mr F shared the information 
he was asked for. 
In saying this, Ive considered what the messages with the one time passwords said: 
Cashplus: Your One Time Password  DO NOT SHARE with anyone! This should 
only be entered on-screen when prompted. Your verification code: XXXX
Mr F said he thought anyone meant anyone outside of Cashplus. Cashplus said 
they shouldnt be held responsible for his assumption. The question here isnt 
whether Mr F was or wasnt right to make this assumption, but whether his actions 
fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done that he failed with gross 
negligence. 
For that, its again important to consider Mr Fs actions in context. He was convinced 
by who he was speaking to, given how the conversation came about and their 
familiarity with how Cashplus worked. And he had been primed to expect the codes 
for security and as a means of sorting out a problem and making his online banking 
easier.   
In this light, I can see how Mr F didnt question the warning in the message  after all, 
that came from his bank, and in his mind, he was on the phone to them. Ive also 
considered that people dont often take in the entirety of a message in the moment. 
Indeed here, it seems Mr F was on his mobile, while also looking out for a text to 
read out. So I could see how, in trying to multitask, he wouldve focussed more on 
the code than anything else. It follows that I dont think Mr Fs actions here were significantly careless  I think 
other people wouldve acted the same way he did. 
Ive also considered Cashplus point that the fraudster originally called Mr F on his 
business number and he provided his mobile number. Its said employees wouldnt 
ask for this as theyd already have it. But Ive noted from the call recordings Cashplus 
provided that it genuinely asked Mr F to confirm his mobile number. In any event, I 
dont think this type of question is likely to have rang alarms bells with Mr F in the 
moment, bearing in mind how often people are asked for their mobile number. 
Cashplus also highlighted that Mr F grew impatient and ended the call, which left the 
fraudster with free reign over his account. Its important not to look back on what 
happened with the benefit of hindsight. If anything, I think this speaks to Mr Fs trust 
in who he was talking to  and that, in his mind, he was simply leaving his bank to get 
on with the process.  
On this basis, I dont think Mr Fs actions failed with gross negligence. So I conclude 
that K isnt liable and Cashplus need to put things right  by refunding its losses from 
these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate it for the time its 
been out of pocket.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Ks complaint and I order Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited to: 
Pay K the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman