DRN-3687652
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed funds he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr D believed he was gambling online with company R. He paid money into his online 
account using his debit card and believed he was using these funds. Mr D raised concerns 
with his bank when he noticed the payments werent showing on his statements as R. He 
had carried out the same payment process each time, but different firms were charging him 
and different currencies had been used. He reported the payments to Lloyds as fraudulent 
and contacted R, but R never responded to him.
Lloyds investigated but didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said the payments on his 
statements matched the dates and times Mr D had expected to pay R. And the amounts 
were roughly the same amount as the payments on his statements (factoring in exchange 
rates). It said Mr D had insufficient evidence to reclaim the payments via a chargeback under 
VISAs regulations. In its final response to Mr D it said he had been able to gamble the funds 
and so a chargeback wasnt possible. And it couldnt link the firms Mr D paid with R.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. On allocation I contacted Mr D informally to 
discuss the outcome reached. I explained that I did agree with him hed been the victim of a 
scam and so didnt agree with the reasoning in the view our investigator reached. But 
despite this, I didnt think his complaint was one we would uphold. I explained that I agreed 
with Lloyds there wasnt a clear link between the firms Mr D had paid and R  who he 
believed hed contracted and was gambling with. Due to this, I didnt think he could 
successfully raise a chargeback claim. After some correspondence between us, it was 
agreed Id move to decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start, I think its important to set out the difference between a fraudulent payment and a 
scam, and how that links to whats happened here. Mr D was expecting for his account to be 
debited the amounts it was. He was aware he was making payments using his debit card 
and believed he was gambling online with these funds. So his bank account hasnt been 
fraudulently accessed and hes not been the victim of unauthorised transactions. However, 
he has been the victim of a scam. He understood he was making the payments to gamble 
and that if he won, hed gain actual money. I accept that wasnt the case and the online 
information about R suggests its a scam firm and no one can withdraw winnings. Whether 
thats because they never truly gamble and its a fake platform, or the company just never 
allowed/actions withdrawals we dont know.
The starting point for Mr Bs transactions is that they were authorised. He input his card 
details for these payments to be taken. The regulations dont set out that a payment must go 
to who you expect to pay for it to be authorised. They instead set out the steps that someone 
must take, and Mr D did complete all these himself and willingly. However that doesnt mean 
someone cant later report these payments to their bank as fraud, as Mr D has done. But 
then the business needs to consider two things  whether it should have, at the time the 
payments were made, been concerned about them and intervened. And secondly, whether 
there are any recovery options now, considering what its customer is telling it.
I dont think Lloyds missed any opportunity to stop Mr D being a victim of this scam as it was 
happening. Mr D doesnt send any single payments higher than £237.91. And the most he 
spends over the course of a full day is under £2,500. So I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to 
be so concerned about these payments it needed to block them and not release the 
payments until it had spoken to Mr D. He uses his account and bank card for spending 
similar amounts to these payments on a regular basis. And I wouldnt say the total daily 
spend is so high that it ought to have prompted an intervention.
So then we move to the second step  recovery options. As Mr D is aware, the main route 
for recovering debit card payments is to make a claim under the relevant chargeback 
scheme, in this case VISA.
I have directly corresponded with Mr D about the VISA chargeback scheme prior to issuing 
this decision. As I have set out to him, the scheme is made up of rules and so banks are 
expected to follow them. Mr D has suggested that as long as he can show reasonable 
grounds to initiate a chargeback claim, he should be able to. But this isnt technically correct. 
There are different parts to the rules and the bank must put in a claim under the correct 
section  and with the required evidence thats set out. For example Mr D has explained why 
he wants to rely on the section relating to him being charged in the incorrect currency. But 
he cant evidence the currency he expected to be charged in by the merchant he paid, which 
is a requirement of this section. 
As I have discussed with Mr D, I dont agree that Lloyds did action this process in the right 
way in his case. But that doesnt then mean his case succeeds. This is because I dont 
agree there is a way Lloyds could have actioned it to make a successful claim. So while it 
didnt do things in the right way, ultimately the outcome it reached was right. From what we 
currently know, R has set itself up in a way that prevents successful chargeback claims 
being made, in line with VISAs rules. 
It isnt the case that Lloyds couldve understood the difficult position Mr D was in and so just 
put in a claim anyway. It is expected to act in accordance with the rules, so only start claims 
where clear reasons have been identified and  very importantly in this case  the right 
evidence has been supplied to support these.
Im not disputing that Mr D has been the victim of a scam. And I fully accept why he cant 
evidence that the firms who received his money have breached a contract with him or 
misrepresented to him. He didnt intend to pay them or want to contract with them, he was 
contracting with R. But the background to how Mr D came to pay the firms he did is not a 
consideration for the purpose of a chargeback claim. There unfortunately isnt a section of 
the rules that covers an unknown party taking funds. The rules work on the basis the parties 
 the consumer and the merchant (the firm the consumer pays)  have an agreement for 
goods or a service to be provided and something has then gone wrong with this agreement. 
The sort of situation Mr D is in would usually be dealt with in the unauthorised transaction 
space, but as above, that cant fairly be done in this case, as Mr D did give his card details to 
someone to make these payments  so he did authorise them. 
Mr D has said that if there arent grounds for him to recover his money through chargeback, 
then Lloyds should initiate its fraud response instead. But the steps it has taken are its 
fraud response. Depending on how a customer pays there are different ways to try and recover funds lost to fraud. We would only expect the bank itself to cover these funds if it 
made a mistake in processing the payments at the time, or its made some other 
commitment to refund victims of fraud. Lloyds didnt make a mistake at the time and has 
made no such commitment. So there are no other recovery options for Mr D.
Mr D has explained to me that other firms have successfully made claims for him through 
chargeback. But this doesnt change my outcome here. Im satisfied that in line with the 
VISA rules, Lloyds has acted fairly in not pursuing a chargeback claim, as Mr D didnt have 
the evidence required. I cant say its done something wrong by following the scheme rules, 
because another firm has possibly not followed them as it should, resulting in a positive 
outcome for Mr D.
Mr D has also raised concerns around what Lloyds did to protect his account after hed 
reported the fraud and how it dealt with his concerns around money laundering. But I have 
already explained to Mr D that Lloyds wouldnt necessarily directly involve him in any 
investigation it did into money laundering concerns. And its for Lloyds to decide if it wanted 
to take this further, not Mr D. While Lloyds could have offered Mr D a new card, for example, 
as part of its fraud review, I havent seen anything to suggest he has suffered a loss because 
he didnt get one. And equally he didnt ask for a new card, despite knowing hed shared the 
details with R and reporting it as a scam. So neither of these points change my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman