DRN-3060555
The complaint
Mr J complains that Capital One (Europe) plc closed his credit card and recorded a default
on his credit file.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold this complaint. I 
said: 
In 2019 Mr J used his Capital One credit card to make a payment towards a holiday. Mr 
J later raised a Section 75 claim and Capital One agreed to refund 25% of the total 
holiday cost.
During this period Mr J agreed a repayment plan with Capital One for £17 a month with a 
final lump sum repayment of £232 due by 20 March 2020.
Mr J says that in the run up to the end of the payment plan he spoke with Capital One and 
it agreed to accept the £323 lump sum repayment when the 25% holiday refund was 
applied to the outstanding balance. Capital One says it has no record of making an 
agreement of that nature with Mr J.
On 20 March 2020 Capital One was notified by this service that Mr J intended to accept the 
settlement of £688. Mr J paid £17 on 20 March 2020 but didnt make the lump sum 
payment. Mr J says he expected Capital One to apply the £688 settlement hed accepted 
as his lump sum.
On 28 March 2020 Capital One defaulted Mr Js account and reported the information to 
the credit reference agencies.
Mr J complained a short time later but Capital One didnt agree it had acted unfairly and 
said it can take four weeks to settle a complaint. Capital One Mr J needed to make the 
lump sum payment of £323 to avoid the default but had failed to do so.
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Capital One had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr J asked to appeal and said Capital One had given its agreement to wait for the lump 
sum due until the £688 refund was process s complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One says Mr J failed to make the final payment on time so its decision to default 
his credit card was fair. But Mr J says Capital Ones actions were unfair because Capital 
One had agreed to refund £688 to him at the time the lump sum payment was due.
Ive looked at the payment plan and I agree Mr J was due to pay £323 on 20 March 2020. 
But I dont think that tells the full story in this case. Mr J made a payment of £17 to Capital 
One on 20 March 2020. Capital One has also confirmed it received confirmation from this 
service on the same day that Mr J had agreed to accept a £688 refund to resolve his 
chargeback complaint. Capital One says it still expected Mr J to make a payment on 20 
March 2020 and that it can take up to four weeks to settle a complaint. Whilst I agree 
Capital One mayve followed its normal approach, I think its fair to say that on 20 March 
2020 Mr J owed it £323 but it owed him £688. In those circumstances, Im not persuaded 
its fair for Capital One to have continued with the closure process and record a default.
In my view, Capital One shouldve taken a step back and considered the situation as a 
whole. It had Mr Js acceptance, provided via our service, that he would settle for a 
payment that was over twice the outstanding lump sum. In addition, Mr J made a £17 
payment on 20 March 2020 in line with other payments he made as part of the plan. I think 
Mr J quite reasonably expected Capital One to look at the situation as a whole. And I think 
that wouldve been a fairer approach.
Capital One didnt apply the default until 28 March 2020 and paid Mr J the agreed £688 on 
7 April 2020. I think Capital One shouldve delayed applying the default in light of the 
settlement it was due to pay. In my view, that wouldve been a fairer approach.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Js complaint and direct 
Capital One to amend Mr Js credit file to remove the default. But Im satisfied its fair for 
Capital One to record that Mr Js account has been subject to a payment arrangement 
during the period in question. Following settlement of this complaint, Capital One should 
also take steps to discuss affordable payment plans with Mr J.
I can see the situation has caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr J and that 
its been ongoing for a long time. I can appreciate how frustrated Mr J has become and 
also intend to award £150 to reflect the trouble and u y view, that fairly
reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr J.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr J responded and confirmed he was 
happy to accept. 
Capital One responded and said it had nothing further to add in terms of the way it settled Mr 
Js Section 75 claim. Capital One advised Mr Js account is currently in arrears and 
forwarded statements. Capital One said it thought a fair approach would be to allow a six 
month period from acceptance of a final decision for Mr J to either bring the account up to 
date or repay the outstanding balance> If, at that point, Mr J has cleared the arrears, Capital 
One says it would be fair to remove the default from his credit file. Capital One also says it 
doesnt feel it would be appropriate to delete the entry entirely. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has confirmed hes willing to accept the proposed settlement. I understand there are systems limits with Capital One that it says makes putting the 
settlement noted in my provisional decision in place difficult. And Ive considered whether it 
would be fair to Mr J to ask him to clear the arrears on the account before Capital One 
removes the default. But I havent been persuaded to change the settlement I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Capital One acted unfairly when it closed Mr Js credit 
card despite owing him more than twice the payment required to avoid the default. To put it 
another way, had Capital One treated Mr J fairly I dont believe his account wouldve been 
closed or defaulted. So any settlement that leaves a default on Mr Js credit file is also unfair 
to him. I appreciate Mr J was in a payment arrangement in March 2020 and my provisional 
decision confirms Capital One can continue to report that. But I havent been persuaded that 
systems issues Capital One has means its fair to leave the default on Mr Js credit file. 
Capital One says if it removes the default, its systems will automatically move to close and 
default the account again. I recently responded to Capital Ones comments and said if 
systems limitations mean it cant put the proposed settlement in place, it will need to 
consider removing its entry from Mr Js credit file entirely. 
Ive considered Capital Ones comments. I still think it would be fairer for Capital One to 
delete its entry in place of reporting information that doesnt accurately reflect whats 
happened to Mr Js account since March 2020. So if Capital One cant amend Mr Js credit 
file to remove the default without its systems moving to close and default the account again, 
it should stop reporting it to the credit reference agencies entirely. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Capital One should also contact Mr J to discuss 
affordable repayment options. 
I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As 
a result, Im going to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Js complaint, Capital One should: 
- Amend Mr Js credit file to remove the default reported. Capital One can record Mr 
Js account as being subject to a payment arrangement
- If systems limits mean the above isnt possible and will result in Mr Js account 
defaulting again, Capital One should delete all information reported either from March 
2020 onwards or entirely
- Capital One should contact Mr J within four weeks of acceptance to discuss options 
for an affordable repayment plan
- Capital One should pay Mr J £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to settle in 
line with the above guidance.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman