DRN-3652444
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wont reimburse money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. In November 2020, Mr J made a credit card 
payment for a sum of $250 towards what he believed was a legitimate investment 
opportunity with a firm Ill refer to as B. When Mr J realised hed likely fallen victim to a 
scam, he reported this to Tesco and asked that it refund his loss. Tesco said there were no 
chargeback options available to Mr J under Mastercards card scheme rules. It also didnt 
accept liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as it didnt think transfers 
or deposits to trading accounts could benefit from this protection. It did, however, 
acknowledge that it couldve provided a better service whilst dealing with Mr Js claim. By 
way of an apology, it credited his account with £35.  
Unhappy with Tescos response Mr J referred his complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
said that she didnt think Tesco needed to reimburse Mr Js loss. Mr J didnt agree and 
asked that an Ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I cant fairly and reasonably ask Tesco to 
refund the disputed transaction. My reasons are as follows:
Naturally, with the benefit of hindsight its easy to say that Tesco ought to have 
intervened. But in practice this isnt always possible and can be quite challenging as 
there are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be realistic or 
reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check each one. There is a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and 
minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In the context of Mr Js normal spending and credit card usage, Im satisfied here, 
that it wouldnt be fair to say that the amount or type of payment (including the 
merchant the payment was made to) should have appeared sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious to Tesco such that it ought to have intervened and contacted Mr J about 
the transaction. So I cant fairly say that Tesco have made a mistake or failed to act 
when processing the payment.
Tesco are bound by Mastercards scheme rules. And I dont think it has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by reaching the conclusion that Mr Js claim didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success. I say this because the only chargeback option 
available for investment related claims under MasterCards scheme is if it can be 
evidenced that the funds never credited the trading account. But this was not the 
nature of Mr Js claim. His claim was that he could not withdraw his funds from his 
trading account with B and that they were operating fraudulently. Mastercards 
scheme does not consider claims about being unable to withdraw funds from trading 
accounts nor does it investigate allegations of fraud or provide a dispute resolution 
process for allegations of a scam.
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract 
and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as they would have against the supplier 
of goods or services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria 
that need to be met, one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) 
relationship between the parties. As Mr J was responsible for repaying the amount 
owed to his credit card provider he is the debtor. As Mr Js Tesco credit card was 
used to make the disputed payment, Tesco is the creditor. And from everything Ive 
seen it is clear B was the supplier. Mr J has shared numerous examples of how he 
believes B have misrepresented themselves and the services they offer. However, 
the payment Mr J disputes wasnt made to B  it was made to another merchant  
S. And there is no right under section 75 to pursue a like claim against a third party 
who was not privy to the DCS relationship. I appreciate Mr B says he has provided 
an email from B confirming receipt of the payment of $250. But this isnt satisfactory 
evidence to support that there is a link between S and B. Therefore, Mr J does not 
have the required DCS agreement in place for a valid section 75 claim. So I dont 
think Tesco have acted unfairly in declining his claim.  
For completeness Ive also considered Tescos handling of Mr Js claim. I agree there were 
delays and Mr J needed to chase for a response. But I think the compensatory award of £35 
paid by Tesco is a fair way to compensate for the inconvenience caused. 
Despite my natural sympathy for what has taken place, ultimately, it was the scammers that 
tricked Mr J. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I cant fairly hold Tesco liable for the 
loss. So it follows that I wont be asking Tesco to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman