DRN-4258456
The complaint
Ms L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost after a 
carpenter failed to complete some work she had paid for, and about how Barclays 
investigated the issue.
What happened
In August 2022, Ms L was having some carpentry work done at her property. Shed been 
recommended a carpenter by a friend and the carpenter had completed some work for her, 
to a standard she was happy with. Ms L and the carpenter then agreed for the carpenter to 
do some further work for her, and Ms L made a payment of £810 from her Barclays account 
to the carpenters account to pay for the necessary materials.
Unfortunately, there were then a number of delays to the work. Ms L chased the carpenter 
for some time in an effort to get them to start the work or deliver the materials to her so 
someone else could do the work. But, ultimately, the relationship between Ms L and the 
carpenter broke down, the carpenter stopped responding to her and the work was never 
done. Ms L then reported the payment she had made to Barclays and asked it to refund the 
money she had lost.
Barclays investigated, but said Ms L had authorised the payment. It also said the carpenter 
had successfully carried our previous work for Ms L, so it didnt think this was a scam and it 
didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Ms L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, 
so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They didnt think Barclays had acted 
unreasonably in opening a scam claim in order to investigate whether Ms l was entitled to a 
refund of the money she had lost. And they also didnt think it was unreasonable for Barclays 
to have concluded that this was a civil dispute between Ms L and the carpenter, rather than 
a scam. So they didnt think Barclays should have to refund the money Ms L lost. Ms L 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has said that, when she first reported this to Barclays, she was just asking if the 
payment could be reversed but Barclays then encouraged her to make a scam claim  even 
though she didnt think it was a scam. But Ms L accepts she made the payment here and, in 
broad terms, the starting position in law is that banks are expected to make payments in line 
with their customers instructions. So Barclays was obliged to follow her instructions and 
make the payment, and there isnt any way for this type of payment to be reversed. And so I 
dont think Barclays acted unreasonably in encouraging her to make a scam claim, as this 
was the most likely way she would be able to get her money back.
Where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment. And Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code), which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victim of certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. But customers are only covered by the code where they have been the 
victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Ms L lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the carpenter set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Ms L says she was recommended the carpenter by a friend, who the carpenter had 
completed work for previously. But I wouldnt expect a scammer to have been able to 
arrange this kind of introduction.
The carpenter had also recently successfully completed other work for Ms L, to a standard 
she was happy with. And Ms L had paid more for the work the carpenter had completed, 
than she paid for this work which wasnt completed. But Id usually expect a scammer to do 
as little work as possible in order to get the maximum possible profit in the shortest period of 
time. So I dont think the carpenter doing the work in this way suggests they set out to scam 
Ms L or never intended to complete the work this payment was for.
Scammers usually target a number of people at once, in order to make as much money as 
possible before the scam is uncovered. But the carpenters account has been open for a 
number of years and no other scam claims have been raised against the account.
So while I appreciate that the work Ms L paid for was not done, I dont think the evidence 
here suggests the carpenter set out from the beginning with the intent to scam her. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the carpenter was attempting to operate as a 
legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the work wasnt 
completed. And so I dont think what happened here falls under the definition of a scam from 
the CRM code.
As I dont think the payment Ms L made to the carpenter is covered under the CRM code, I 
dont think Barclays is required to refund the money she lost on that basis. I also dont think 
theres any other way Barclays should have tried to reverse or recover the payment, or any 
other reason Barclays should have to refund the money Ms L lost.
Ms L has said Barclays failed to look at her case properly, as it didnt consider the copies of 
the messages she sent it between her and the carpenter. But, from the evidence Ive seen of 
Barclays investigation, I think it was reasonable for it to come to the conclusion it did based 
on the evidence it had. And, even if Barclays didnt consider the messages Ms L sent it, I 
dont think these would have changed Barclays decision as I dont think the messages 
suggest the carpenter set out from the beginning with the intent to scam her. And I read and 
considered the messages before coming to my decision and, as I explained above, I dont 
think Barclays should have to refund the money Ms L lost.
I sympathise with the position Ms L has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the carpenter. I also 
understand she has said she will find it difficult to pursue the carpenter directly. But I can only look at Barclays responsibilities and, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman