DRN-2610380
The complaint
Miss R complains that the settlement offer for her stolen car under her motor insurance 
policy with esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas Wheels) is too low.
What happened
Miss Rs car was stolen in February 2020. She reported the theft to the police and contacted 
her insurer, esure, to make a claim under her car insurance.
esure provided Miss R with a courtesy car while it assessed her claim. It quickly classed 
Miss Rs car as Stolen Unrecovered and agreed to pay her its market value at the time it 
was stolen. It calculated this as £4,572 and offered this amount, less Miss Rs excess. When 
Miss R questioned the offer, esure explained that it used the average of four trade guides to 
calculate the cars market value. It believes this was fair.
Miss R was unhappy with esures offer. She said she couldnt replace her car for the amount 
esure offered. She believed it was worth £5,000 to £6,800, based on similar cars she saw for 
sale. She believes esure didnt take account of the cars higher spec and that it based its 
valuation on its trade-in price, not its retail market value. Miss R was also unhappy she had 
to continue paying her monthly insurance premium and that esure took back her courtesy 
car. 
Finally, Miss R said esure was slow to process her claim for the personal belongings that 
were in the car when it was stolen. She is also unhappy it would only pay her £200 for this 
when their true value was over £350.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld in part. He 
concluded that a fair price for Miss Rs car was £5,190. He recommended esure pay the 
difference between this and its original settlement offer, plus interest. He didnt uphold the 
other parts of Miss Rs complaint.
esure didnt accept our investigators recommendation. It explained how its engineer 
reached its valuation and why it believed it was fair. The case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 20 January 2021. I said:
There are four elements to Miss Rs complaint: valuation; premium; courtesy car; and 
personal belongings. Ill consider each in turn.
Valuation
Its not the role of our service to put an exact value on a car. When looking into these types 
of complaints we check the relevant trade guides and consider whether the insurer has 
made a reasonable offer in line with them. 
We do also consider information other than trade guides, including adverts. But we place 
most weight on the guides as theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices, 
so theyre more reliable than individual adverts. And adverts can be misleading as often 
vehicles dont sell for the advertised price. Sale prices are often lower after negotiations take 
place.
Section 3 of Miss Rs policy booklet covers payment in the event of fire or theft. It says: We 
wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total excess 
payable. Market value is defined as 
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open 
market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and 
mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid 
when you purchased the car. 
esure told Miss R this was the same approach taken by this service in valuation disputes 
and provided a link to our website.
esure used four trade guides to value Miss Rs car:
Glass's £5,050
Parkers £4,212
CAP £4,330
Cazana £4,759
It told Miss R it offered the average of these values as settlement, less her £250 excess. 
This isnt quite right. The average is £4,588; it offered Miss R £4,572, less her excess. esure 
told us this £16 difference was likely due to a daily fluctuation in the Cazana valuation. 
However, Im satisfied that esures approach was fair and that its offer was in line with the 
trade guides.
I know Miss R was concerned that esure ignored the panoramic sunroof in her car and 
thought it used trade-in values, not market values. However, Ive reviewed esures 
valuations. These are based on the same make and model as Miss Rs car, the same 
mileage, and the same spec. Im satisfied that the sunroof came as standard with her car, 
and I can see that esure used the same market value figures this service uses.
I appreciate that our investigator recommended a higher settlement, so it might help Miss R 
if I explain why I disagree with him.
Our investigator reviewed three of the four trade guides used by esure. Two of them gave 
the same values as those found by esure. The third gave a value of £5,330. This is £580 
higher than esures comparable valuation. I understand that this difference is due to changes 
in the algorithm used by this trade guide between the date esure valued Miss Rs car and the 
date our investigator did.
Where one guide is significantly out of line with the others, we consider the two guide values 
closest together to give a good indication of the likely pre-accident market value. Our 
investigator followed this approach, ignored the low value outlier, and found the average of 
the two remaining trade guides: £5,190. 
esure challenged our investigators recommendation and I agree. I think what esure did was 
fair and reasonable  it used trade guides to value Miss Rs car less than two weeks after 
the car was stolen to try to settle her claim as soon as possible. So I think its offer was fair. Im not going to ask esure to increase it.
Policy premium
Miss R is unhappy that she was asked to continue paying her monthly premium after her car 
was stolen. 
Section 4 of her policy booklet (Conditions) says, If we decide your car is a total loss we 
may reduce the claim payment by taking the balance of the full annual premium you still owe 
us. if youre paying by direct debit the full annual premium will need to be paid unless we 
have already deducted this from your claim payment.
Miss Rs car insurance was a yearly contract beginning in August 2019. Miss R chose to pay 
by direct debit. However, her premium is still paid up front by a creditor who Miss R pays 
back in instalments, plus interest. This interest is shown as Charge for credit on her policy 
schedule.
However, if the car is stolen during the policy year  a total loss for esure  no premium is 
refundable. Miss R was paying the yearly premium by monthly instalments, so she must still 
pay the outstanding instalments. This is common with motor insurance policies.
Miss R has had the benefit of the policy so its only fair she pays the premium. Im satisfied 
this is reasonable and that esure has applied the policy term fairly.
Courtesy car
Miss Rs policy schedule shows that she paid an additional premium for Car Hire Benefit. 
However, page 3 of the policy booklet (Our Courtesy car service) says, A courtesy car is 
not available if your car has been stolen and not found, or considered to be a total loss.
I appreciate this was a difficult situation for Miss R. But Im satisfied that esure was under no 
obligation to provide a courtesy car when her car was stolen. Once it had provided this, I 
think it gave her enough notice that it intended to withdraw it. For this reason, I dont think it 
acted unfairly.
Personal belongings 
Section 5.4 of Miss Rs policy (Additional benefits) says, If your car is stolen or damaged 
as a result of a claim under Section 2 or 3 of your policy, well pay for loss or damage to 
personal belongings or electrical accessories not permanently fitted to your car. It goes on 
to say, The most well pay for any one incident is the amount shown in your Schedule.
Miss Rs policy schedule shows the limit to claims for personal belongings was £200. So Im 
satisfied that esure doesnt have to pay her more than this for the personal items that were 
lost when her car was stolen.
Miss Rs policy also explains that We may require proof of purchase or evidence of 
ownership to support your claim. I dont think its unfair for esure to ask Miss R for such 
proof. Id simply expect it to apply this standard of proof fairly  particularly given Miss R 
says some of those items were bought several years ago  and remind Miss R that if shes 
unhappy with esures decision about her claim for this, she can complain to this service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss R was disappointed by my findings. She said she had sent us everything when she originally submitted her complaint and had nothing to add.
esure didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman