DRN-3689693
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs C hold jointly with The Mortgage Business 
Plc. Mr C, who has brough the complaint with the consent of Mrs C, says that TMB misled 
him about the interest rate on this mortgage, and that information that would have enabled 
him to re-mortgage the property was withheld from him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have two interest-only BTL mortgages with TBM, the terms on which are both 
now expired. Mr and Mrs C were divorced some years ago and are no longer in contact with 
one another, although the mortgages remain in joint names. 
For some years Mr C has lived in one of the mortgaged properties (Property A), and this 
complaint concerns only Property A. The mortgage term came to an end in 2017 and the 
balance remains unpaid.
A complaint was made to TMB about its refusal to allow term extensions on the mortgages. 
On 26 July 2022 an ombudsman issued a final decision on that complaint. The complaint 
wasnt upheld. In her findings the ombudsman concluded that TMB was unaware Mr C was 
living in Property A until 2017.
The ombudsman also concluded that TMB hadnt acted unreasonably or provided 
misleading information about when the mortgage balance was payable. The ombudsman 
found that the informal grace period to repay the mortgages expired in November 2020. 
During the course of that complaint, a further complaint was made by Mr C, as follows:
TMB was aware that Mr C had been living in Property A since 2014 and charged him an incorrect 
rate of interest as a result;
Mr C was charged for a field agent visit in 2014 which he says never took place;
Mr C says he wasnt aware of the possession order granted on the property in 2014;
Mr C has tried to get information from TMB about rebates and about his mortgages, without 
success, preventing him from re-mortgaging;
TMB gave him misleading information about his monthly repayment.
On 22 August 2022 I issued a decision in which I explained that we would only be 
considering Mr Cs complaint about TMB withholding information from him and about being 
given misleading information about his monthly repayment.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He noted TMB 
was charging the homeowner rate on the mortgage and had been doing so since 2009. The 
investigator was satisfied TMB hadnt charged Mr C a higher rate because he was living in 
his BTL property.
The investigator also didnt find any other errors on the mortgage account, and noted that r C 
hadnt provided any evidence to support his contention that the balance was incorrect.
Finally, the investigator wasnt persuaded TMB had withheld any information from Mr C; 
TMB had sent Mr C statements and had said it would provide a redemption statement on 
request.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the matter has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. 
Im satisfied TMB hasnt charged Mr C a different rate of interest for living in the property. 
The mortgage has been on TMBs homeowner rate of interest since 2009, so there is no 
additional loading of the rate as a result of Mr Cs occupancy of his BTL property.
TMB has explained that in 2018 it completed a rectification exercise on all its mortgages 
where a payment arrangement had been in place between January 2009 and March 2013. 
This was done because the bank might have made errors on some of its accounts and so 
the bank decided to refund all arrears management fees, plus interest. Im satisfied Mr C 
was provided with details of this at the time it happened. 
Because the exercise was carried out by the bank across all its mortgages where a payment 
arrangement was in place during the affected period  including those where fees had been 
charged fairly  I cant see that Mr C has been disadvantaged. Either he received a refund of 
fees that shouldnt have been charged, thus putting him back in the correct position  or he 
received a refund even where fees had been fairly charged, putting him in a better position.
Im also not persuaded TMB has withheld information from Mr C that has prevented him from 
re-mortgaging. Mr C hasnt provided any evidence to show a re-financing offer from a new 
lender that didnt proceed due to anything TMB did, or didnt do. TMB has provided 
statements for the account, and has said it will provide a redemption statement on request.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find TMB has done anything wrong. That doesnt mean 
Mr C has to take either my word or TMB that nothing has gone wrong if he doesnt want to. 
We dont provide an account-checking or auditing service. Mr C always has the option of 
arranging for the mortgage account to be audited by a suitably-qualified and independent 
third party, such as a forensic accountant or actuary. If that revealed any errors, the 
evidence of the audit could be used as the basis for a new complaint  but not as the basis 
for this one to be re-opened. I make this point because TMB would need to be presented 
with the finalised audit first and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it.
Mr C would have to meet the cost of the audit, but if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would expect TMB to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well as 
taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt allow me to find in Mr Cs favour, however much Mr C thinks I 
should.The mortgage balance is now overdue, and, if repayment proposals cant be agreed, TMB 
will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I would not want 
Mr and Mrs C to underestimate the seriousness of this.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to 
alarm Mr and Mrs C, but I would not want them to be under any misunderstanding that we 
would tell TMB that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint 
being raised.
I sincerely hope Mr and Mrs C are able to resolve the situation with TMB and are able to 
make arrangements to repay the mortgage in the foreseeable future. As I said above, as a 
last resort, TMB is entitled to pursue recovery through the courts. Where a mortgage term 
has expired on a BTL mortgage, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to 
suspend possession are very limited. However, I think it would help Mr and Mrs C to discuss 
the situation with an independent financial adviser. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman