DRN-4309715
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) poor service 
and low settlement offer, following a claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B contacted Advantage to make a claim for accidental damage. She told Advantage that 
her car had rolled into the garage pillars and caused damage. She said that she contacted a 
neighbour and he propped up the garage to prevent further damage. 
Advantage asked Mrs B to provide photos of the damage and a quote from the independent 
contractor, which she did. She then instructed the contractor to carry out the repairs. This 
cost Mrs B £2,851.20. 
Mrs B said that she had to use her savings in addition to her credit card in order to settle the 
invoice. Mrs B sent the invoice to Advantage for reimbursement. Advantage sent a surveyor 
to carry out an assessment. Its surveyor priced the repair costs.
Following on from this, Advantage offered Mrs B £1,309.72 (which had the excess 
deducted). It said that the offer was based on what it wouldve cost them to carry out the 
repairs, so this was the limit of its liability. 
Mrs B complained not only because of the settlement, which she said was far too low, but 
also for a variety of poor service issues, such as failed call backs and issues she faced when 
logging the claim online. And that Advantage hadnt informed her that the surveyor was 
working on its behalf.    
In its final response, Advantage maintained its position regarding the settlement offer. It said 
that had it carried out the work, the amount it offered, wouldve been limited to the amount 
that its preferred supplier wouldve charged. So, it was unable to increase the offer. It did 
accept that there were some poor service issues and as a result it offered compensation of 
£75, for the trouble and upset this caused. 
As Mrs B had been given her referral rights, she referred her complaint to our service. She 
said that Advantage hadnt informed her that she could have used its contractors. Nor had it 
told her that there would be a limit on the amount, that it would settle her claim. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that the complaint turned on whether Advantage had told Mrs B that she couldve used its 
contractors. And that it would only be liable for the costs, it wouldve cost them to complete 
the repairs. She asked Advantage for evidence that could support this, but it didnt provide it. 
So, she thought it was reasonable that Advantage pay the costs of Mrs Bs claim in full. She 
also said that as Mrs B had paid some of the amount on her credit card, Advantage ought to 
refund any credit card charges.  
Finally, she said that it was obvious that Mrs B had been stressed as a result of the event 
and the poor service issues. So, she concluded that Advantage ought to increase its offer of 
compensation to a total of £175, for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs B accepted the view, Advantage did not. It felt that the evidence turned on the first 
notification of loss call (FNOL), as it said that this was when it offered Mrs B the use of its 
contractors. It asked for further time to locate the call. But as it didnt respond to our 
investigators view, nor did it locate the call. The complaint was referred for an ombudsman 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered all the evidence from both parties, as well as their comments. I think the 
main issues of this complaint is whether Advantage told Mrs B that she could use its 
contractors. And whether it had informed Mrs B that it would only pay up to the amount that 
its contractor wouldve charged, if Mrs B chose to use her own contractor. 
Advantage relied on the following policy term, which states: When your insurer can offer 
repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but then agree to pay a cash or cash 
alternative settlement, then payment will not be more than the amount they would have paid 
their preferred supplier. 
Im satisfied that it means that if Advantage (the insurer) had offered to repair or replace via 
its preferred supplier, but then agreed to make a cash settlement, the settlement wouldnt be 
for more than the amount it wouldve paid its preferred supplier. 
I think it then became imperative that Advantage provide evidence to support its comments 
that it had advised Mrs B to use its preferred supplier. Moreover, that it had told Mrs B that it 
would only pay what it wouldve cost them. 
Mrs B said that at no time did Advantage offer her the use of its preferred supplier. Nor did it 
mention that it would only settle the claim to the amount that it wouldve cost them. She said 
had it done so, she wouldve used its preferred supplier. Or obtained more than one quote.
Advantage said that it did offer Mrs B the use of its contractor and did so during the FNOL. 
Advantage was asked for a copy of the call recording. And was given time to provide this 
piece of evidence. This wasnt provided, as it said it couldnt locate the call. 
When looking at complaints of this nature, we must be satisfied that a business has offered 
to repair or replace to begin with. As there is no evidence from Advantage that refutes what 
Mrs B said, I cant be satisfied that Advantage either repaired or replaced or offered to do so, 
before, Mrs B instructed her own contractor. 
One of the purposes of an insurance policy is to put the consumer back into the pre-loss 
position, and I dont think Advantage, did that here. Both parties provided full breakdowns for the work needed. Ive looked at both. And having 
reviewed Mrs Bs invoice, I think the costings are relevant to the work completed and 
therefore are not unreasonable. So, I think its fair and reasonable that Advantage reimburse 
the full costs of the repairs, to put Mrs B back into the pre-loss position. 
In addition, Im satisfied that the impact of this event was more than just minimal. And 
caused Mrs B stress and inconvenience, over several weeks. Especially as she explained 
that she had to use her savings and credit card in order to pay her contractor. So, I think its 
fair and reasonable that Advantage increase its offer of compensation to a total of £175, to 
reflect this. 
I also think its fair for Advantage to reimburse any credit card charges that Mrs B had, as a 
result of having used her credit card to settle her contractors invoice. Mrs B ought to provide 
the relevant evidence regarding this. 
Putting things right
Taking all of the circumstances into consideration, and to put matters right, I direct 
Advantage as I set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
To put matters right, Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Reimburse Mrs Bs full costs she incurred, in carrying out the repairs. Advantage has already 
paid £1,309.72, so it ought to make an additional payment of £1,541.48.
Refund Mrs Bs credit card charges she incurred as a result of using her card.  On 
production, from her, of the relevant credit card evidence. 
To pay Mrs B a total of £175 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman