DRN-4272673
The complaint
N, a limited company, complains about the service received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited under their HomeCare policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator, and for these reasons:
The engineer didnt turn up for planned appointments. It wasnt appropriate for British 
Gas to arrange appointments if it didnt have the necessary parts, only to then fail to 
turn up. I understand this isnt British Gas usual process. 
When a business has done something wrong, we look at how the complainant has 
been impacted. British Gas has recognised the missed appointments caused N 
inconvenience, and paid £90 compensation for this. Although N chose to pay for 
someone to wait at the property for the engineers, that was their choice. So I dont 
find that British Gas should cover this cost. Im satisfied that the compensation paid 
by British Gas was reasonable for the missed appointments. This recognised the 
inconvenience that N was caused by spending time on this issue instead of their 
usual business activities.
I understand that N paid the laundry costs for their tenants whilst the washing 
machine was being repaired. Again, this was up to N. This cost isnt covered under 
the policy, so I dont require British Gas to pay for this.
The policy says that British Gas will carry out any repairs within a reasonable time, 
unless something happens beyond its control which makes that impossible. Ive read 
British Gas notes, and it seems the delay was beyond British Gas control due to 
parts needing to be ordered, or out of stock. British Gas has also explained that once 
a part arrives, this also needs to undergo checks, so this likely contributed to the 
delay. 
The policy terms say that British Gas will make a contribution (100% if appliance is 
less than three years old, and 30% if more than three years old) towards a 
replacement appliance if it cant repair it, or it decides it will cost less to replace than 
to repair. British Gas thought it could repair the washing machine, but as the repair 
couldnt be done until it received the parts, it offered to pay 50% contribution if N 
didnt want to wait for the repair. I think that was a reasonable offer, and went beyond 
what British Gas was required to do under the policy terms.
I note that after British Gas had issued its final response letter on the complaint, the 
repair apparently failed and so N bought a new washing machine. I havent 
considered this point within this complaint, as N will need to raise this as a new claim 
with British Gas. 
I therefore dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied British Gas has paid reasonable 
compensation for the impact caused to N by its failings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman