DRN-3672795
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim for escape of 
water made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim to Aviva due to a leak at his property. Aviva carried out investigations, 
but declined the claim, as it said no insurable event had been found to have taken place.
Mr M says he was told the trace and access work would be non-invasive, and was also 
unhappy that the damage caused during those investigations hadnt been put right. He 
complained to Aviva, saying that because of the damage, his partner had tripped in front of 
the cooker and burnt herself. 
Aviva said it would arrange repairs and that its contractor would be in touch with Mr M to 
complete these. It offered Mr M a total of £360.51 in compensation, which included £100 for 
loss of expectation to replace the floor coverings and £100 for loss of appearance to the floor 
caused by its contractors. It also included £160.51 to repair the concrete hold and boxing 
area which was left uncovered. 
Mr M was unhappy with this offer, and said the whole thing had been going on for several 
months and that hed experienced a number of issues, including Aviva delaying sending a 
surveyor round and closing the claim without telling him.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Aviva hadnt acted fairly. She said 
whilst it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim, as the terms of the policy excluded gradual 
damage, she didnt think the level of compensation offered to Mr M for the problems hed 
experienced was sufficient. She recommended Aviva pay Mr M an additional £600 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered as a result of its handling of 
the claim.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators assessment. It said, among other things, that it 
couldnt be held responsible for the customers partner tripping and burning herself as the 
flooring had been taped into place.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M made the claim in November 2021. Aviva carried out a number of investigations into 
the cause of the leak, and issued a report to Mr M in April 2022, letting him know that the 
cause was penetrating damp, which was gradually operating and therefore not covered 
under the policy. 
Firstly, I consider it to have taken too long for Aviva to let Mr M know the cause of the 
escape of water. Whilst its usual for claims of this nature to take several months to 
investigate and put right, this period of five months involved investigation only and no 
repairs. And looking at the photographs and reports provided, I dont consider the scope of 
the investigation to be so wide that it shouldve taken several months to complete. This left 
Mr Ms home in a poor state in certain areas, which I can appreciate caused him some 
inconvenience.
I accept what Aviva has said about the customers expectations around the investigative 
work being non-invasive. Aviva says theres no evidence that the customer was told tests 
wouldnt be invasive. Its not clear who told Mr M that the work wouldnt be invasive, and we 
dont have recordings of the calls in which Mr M says this was repeatedly mentioned to him. 
However, I dont doubt that Mr M was told this at some point, as he feels strongly about it 
and his testimony has been persuasive and consistent on this point. Similarly, Mr M has said 
he was told his kitchen floor would be replaced irrespective of whether the claim was 
accepted or not, due to the damage caused in investigating the claim  and due to the fact 
that the flooring is no longer available. So Im satisfied his expectations werent managed 
appropriately by an agent of Aviva, or at the very least that Avivas agents did not provide 
suitable clarity before carrying out the work they did, and that as a result Mr M was let down 
once he realised the investigation work would involve causing damage to his home. So Im 
going to require Aviva to pay £250 compensation for the disappointment this all wouldve 
caused Mr M, which continued for several months.
Aviva says it accepts Mr M had to chase for progress updates, but also says that there were 
points at which Mr M was kept updated. Having looked at the timeline of events, I can see 
that there were unreasonable delays, particularly during the first few months of 2022 when it 
doesnt appear much progress was being made to get back to Mr M about the damage that 
had been caused to his property. I appreciate that this caused Mr M frustration and Im going 
to require Aviva to compensate Mr M by paying him £100 for this.
Whilst I can see from photographs provided that there are areas of kitchen floor tiling which 
are taped into place, there is also a large area directly in front of the cooker which is not 
covered or taped and is therefore uneven and could be a potential hazard. Mr M says this 
caused his partner to trip and burn herself whilst cooking, and I consider his comments to be 
plausible and persuasive. I also consider what happened to be a foreseeable direct result of 
the damage to the floor in front of the cooker, which was not put right when it shouldve 
been. As the policy is only in Mr Ms name, I cannot consider distress and inconvenience 
caused to a third party, but I appreciate that such an issue wouldve also affected Mr M and 
that he wouldve been distressed and inconvenienced by it. So Im going to require Aviva to 
pay Mr M £250 compensation for this. 
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited must now pay Mr M £600 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, in addition to the £360.51 it has offered him already, bringing the total 
amount of compensation in this case to £960.51.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman