DRN-1758959
The complaint
O,a management company, represented by one of its directors, Mr S, complains that 
Endsleigh Insurances (Brokers) Ltd failed to advise it properly about the renewal premium 
for its Landlord policy, resulting in it having to pay a much higher premium than necessary.
What happened
In May 2016 Os policy came up for renewal. Endsleigh offered a renewal at a total of 
£7,286.79 (which was the only quote it could get through its panel), including charges. 
Endsleigh advised at the time that the premium was competitive for the cover in place. At 
the renewal in 2017 Mr S approached another broker and a new policy was put in place for a 
premium of £1,416.
Mr S complained to Endsleigh. He said his fellow director (Mr W) had asked on what basis 
the premiums were reviewed and, he believes, received a misleading response which didnt 
say Endsleigh had only got one quote at the 2017 renewal. He also complained that 
Endsleigh, being wholly owned by the insurer with whom the policy was placed, acted in a 
conflict of interests situation.
Endsleigh said that although its response could have been clearer, it placed policies with 
other insurers and had legal agreements in place with its owner. The quotes had been 
sourced from its panel and only one company was prepared to quote, so it had offered its 
best price. It pointed out that brokers have different arrangements and that market changes 
in 2017 meant that lower premiums were on offer.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Endsleigh had acted reasonably. It 
had offered a policy with the only insurer on its panel willing to quote. He pointed out that 
Mr S and his fellow directors were aware that they could have looked elsewhere for a policy.
Mr S disagreed and said that because they would have had to carry out a consultation 
exercise under the relevant legislation they werent able to look elsewhere. They proceeded 
with the consultation in 2017 and obtained the much lower premium. He also asked 
Endsleigh to quote in 2017 and it managed to get three quotes for considerably lower 
premiums.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the policy was approaching its renewal date in 2016 Endsleigh approached O about 
this. Mr W replied:
As a heads up we now have a new fully guaranteed roof and will be looking for a significant 
reduction in any renewal premiums and we will be scanning the market for the best deal 
available. 
After approaching insurers on its panel Endsleigh advised O:
Ive heard back from most of our insurers and the general message Im getting is that the 
premium youre paying currently is competitive for the cover in place, therefore we havent 
been able to find anything more competitive than [current insurer] yet.
On that basis O proceeded with the renewal of the policy. I understand that there were 
factors taken into account like the claims history which included a claim for subsidence 
damage. When the renewal in 2017 took place, Endsleigh gave Mr S details of the insurers it 
had approached in 2016. It explained that only the then current insurer quoted, and two 
others had declined to quote.
While I understand that in 2016 Endsleigh could have been clearer in respect of why it 
believed its current premium was competitive, I dont believe that O has shown that it made 
any loss. Firstly Mr S has told us that as there hadnt been any statutory consultation set in 
place it wasnt possible at the 2016 renewal to go to a different broker.. And in any event I 
think, in light of Mr Ws comments, that he and Mr S were well aware of their right to search 
the markets themselves. Endsleigh made enquiries of its panel, which is reasonable, and 
recommended that O proceed with the quote it had obtained.
The renewal that O proceeded with was for 2017. And Endsleigh was able to quote for much 
lower premiums at that stge. I havent seen any evidence that the premium Endsleigh 
obtained in 2016 wasnt competitive at least for its panel at that time. As a professional 
adviser it was matter for Endsleigh how many insurers it approached before advising O to 
proceed with its recommendation.
As regards conflict of interests, Endsleigh is a broker owned by an insurer. But it also 
recommends other insurers on its panel and has legal agreements in place with its owner to 
ensure that there is no conflict. Its been in business for many years on that basis and I think 
it reasonable to assume that its arrangements allow it to conduct business on that basis. I 
dont think that there has been any conflict of interest shown.
Finally, Endsleigh sets out the commission it receives at each renewal. In 2016 this was 15% 
which I think is reasonable for a commercial policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021
. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman