DRN-4000188
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) handled her request to 
setup a standing order on her account. 
Mrs P says that she was assisted by a member of staff in branch when using a machine to 
set up the payment. Mrs P says that a warning message appeared saying the account 
details that had been entered were not recognised. Mrs P says the member of staff said that, 
as her account details were correct, she should press a button to confirm the payment. Mrs 
P says she felt pressured by this and was concerned as shed previously been able to make 
one off payments to the same account. Mrs P says that the member of staff then pressed a 
button on the screen, but she did not see what it was he pressed.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they felt that Santander couldve 
handled the situation better and so recommended that Santander pay Mrs P £50 
compensation, for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander agreed with the assessment, but Mrs P didnt. So the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I think that what the adjudicator has recommended to put 
matters right is reasonable, largely for the reasons that he gave.
Having considered what Mrs P has said, I can appreciate that seeing the warning message 
appear on the screen and being asked to press OK wouldve potentially caused distress as 
she would have to choose whether to proceed with the reassurances given by the member 
of staff, or whether to heed the warning that was showing on screen and not proceed. 
I think that matters couldve perhaps been dealt with better. For example, the process 
couldve been cancelled and tried again, just in case something had been entered 
incorrectly. Or perhaps Santander couldve suggested Mrs P try another time if she wasnt 
happy to proceed after the warning message popped up. 
But from what has been explained it seems that the member of staff was simply trying to 
reassure Mrs P, rather than pressure her, that the standing order would be set up correctly 
despite the warning message. And ultimately Mrs P was able to choose not to proceed with 
setting up the payment and did so later. So, its not the case that Mrs P was coerced into 
setting up the payment against her wishes. 
Overall, I think that an award of £50 reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused by this matter. I recognise that Mrs P would like more compensation than this, but 
when considering what is reasonable, I have to bear in mind that there is usually a level of 
distress and inconvenience that we all experience when things dont go as expected, that 
does not warrant compensation.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs P £50 
compensation, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to do what I have outlined above to 
resolve this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman