DRN-2406130
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the charges hes being asked to pay when he returned a car near the 
end of his hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS). He feels these are unfair and wants them to be removed.
What happened
Mr H took out a hire purchase agreement with MBFS in February 2016 for a new car. The 
agreement was scheduled to run for 48 months. But around August 2019 Mr H looked into 
taking out a new agreement for a different car. The following month he voluntarily terminated 
his original agreement with MBFS and handed the car back. 
But Mr H then received an invoice from MBFS for new tyres. This was because when he 
returned the car, the tyres werent the same specification as the original ones that were fitted 
when he got it. In short, the car was supplied to Mr H with run flat tyres, but when he 
returned it to MBFS it had normal tyres fitted. So it invoiced him for the cost of fitting run flat 
tyres. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to MBFS. Briefly, he said when the front tyres 
needed replacing during a routine service at a manufacturer approved dealership, hed 
asked if he had to get run flat tyres. Mr H said the dealership told him he didnt have to fit run 
flat tyres. He later also fitted non run flat tyres to the rear before another routine service. 
Mr H also said when he discussed changing the car for a different one, his car was 
inspected by the dealership. Mr H said the only issue that was raised at that time was a 
stone chip to the bonnet  no mention was made that the tyres were the wrong type. MBFS 
didnt uphold his complaint. It said the charges for new tyres had been correctly applied as 
Mr Hs car had been returned with the wrong tyres. 
So Mr H brought his complaint to our service. It was looked into by one of our investigators 
who didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, our investigator said MBFS had done 
nothing wrong when applying the charges and it wasnt responsible for what Mr H had been 
told by the dealership after hed taken out the agreement. 
Mr H didnt accept this. He said hed been given misleading information by a trusted 
employee of the manufacturer when hed asked about replacing the tyres  if hed been 
given the correct information, hed have replaced the worn-out tyres with run flat tyres. 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first. Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: is it fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr H for his car 
being returned with different tyres to those it was supplied with? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Ive looked at the agreement Mr H had with MBFS. This allowed it to charge him, when he 
returned the car, for any damage caused by him not taking reasonable care of it. Im 
satisfied that damage includes things that devalue the car, such as having the wrong type of 
tyres. 
Mr Hs agreement states he must maintain the vehicle in line with MBFS Vehicle Return 
Standards. A copy of these were supplied to Mr H when he got the car. Before he agreed to 
return the car to MBFS, it sent Mr H details of the voluntary termination of the agreement. 
These included information about how the vehicle would be assessed for damage and 
included a link to MBFS Vehicle Return Standards. 
Ive looked at this link. The standards set out that when a car is returned, the tyres must 
conform to the original specification  that is, the tyres should be the same type as those that 
the car was supplied with. 
Ultimately, its Mr Hs responsibility to comply with the terms and conditions of the hire 
purchase agreement he entered into with MBFS. The original agreement clearly set out the 
car needed to be returned with the same type of tyres it was supplied with. This information 
was again given to Mr H before he agreed to return the car. MBFS have also told us it 
replaced the tyres with run flats once itd been returned. Taking all this into account, Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr H for replacing these tyres. 
I can see Mr H says he was given misleading information by a trusted employee of the 
manufacturer about the need to fit run flat tyres. He told us he would have fitted the correct 
tyres if hed been told to. But I would point out here that the dealership is a totally separate 
legal entity to MBFS. The dealership employee isnt an employee of MBFS. 
Mr Hs complaint is about the charges imposed by MBFS. MBFS isnt responsible for the 
actions of the dealerships employee. In some circumstances, Section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that MBFS can be held liable for the actions of the finance broker  
in this case the dealership  for what it told Mr H in the negotiations leading up to him 
entering into the loan agreement. 
But thats not what were talking about here. Mr H is unhappy with what he was told by the 
dealership after hed already entered into the agreement. During those discussions, the 
dealership wasnt acting as MBFS agent. Theres no basis for me to hold MBFS liable for 
what a separate legal entity, the dealership, may have told him after hed already entered in 
to the loan agreement. 
Notwithstanding this, I would also point out that when Mr H replaced his tyres, there was no 
requirement at that time for him to replace them with run flat tyres. The requirement to fit run 
flat tyres only arose when Mr H decided to return the car to MBFS. Up to that point, he was 
able to fit any suitable tyres he wished. 
Similarly, MBFS isnt responsible for the inspection carried out by the dealership before Mr H 
returned the car. This wasnt a formal inspection conducted on behalf of MBFS. Details of the formal condition assessment were supplied to Mr H with his voluntary termination pack. 
This pack was dated 31 August 2019 and was signed by Mr H six days later. So Im satisfied 
MBFS made it clear to Mr H before he agreed to terminate his agreement, that the condition 
of the car would be assessed against the Vehicle Return Standards once hed returned it. 
In summary, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr H for returning the 
car with the wrong tyres. MBFS clearly set out at the start of the agreement, and again just 
before Mr H agreed to return the car, that the tyres needed to be same type as those that 
were fitted when supplied. Im also satisfied theres no basis for me to hold MBFS 
responsible for what Mr H may have been told by the dealership after he took out the 
agreement. It follows theres no basis for me to ask MBFS to remove the charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
John Miles
Ombudsman