DRN-3292455
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about poor service and delays when they applied to port their 
mortgage with National Westminster Bank Plc. They ask that it refunds the early repayment 
charge (ERC) they paid and contributes towards the costs of temporary accommodation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with NatWest. They had a fixed interest rate product which 
included an ERC if they repaid the mortgage during the product term. They could avoid 
paying the ERC if they ported the product to a new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W made a porting application in late 2019. They say poor communication and 
information by NatWest and the surveyor it instructed delayed the application. They had to 
complete the sale of their property to avoid the sale falling through. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs W say they had to move into temporary accommodation and pay 
storage costs for their belongings. They were concerned that theyd lose the property they 
wanted to buy, and so they took out a mortgage with another lender. They paid an ERC to 
NatWest. 
Our investigator said the surveyor that carried out the valuation raised issues about the 
condition of the property and said repair work was needed. She said NatWest sought 
clarification from the surveyor where appropriate. But it was entitled to rely on the surveyors 
expert opinion. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. In summary, they say NatWest should have made it clear at the 
outset, based on the valuation report, what needed to be done for it to lend. It said it was 
NatWests inability to make a lending decision that caused the delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W contacted NatWest about porting their mortgage in October 2019. A valuation 
of the property they wanted to buy was carried out on behalf of NatWest by a qualified 
surveyor  a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors  in November 2019. 
The valuation report raised issues with the condition of the property. The surveyor said 
repairs were needed for the property to be mortgageable. Its likely some delays were 
unavoidable, while specialist contractors inspected, quoted for and carried out work. What I 
need to decide is whether NatWest made errors or caused unnecessary delays. 
Mr and Mrs W say the surveyor wasnt clear about the work needed. They say the vendor 
carried out work and they provided proof of this to NatWest only for the surveyor to say other 
work was needed. They say that poor communication between NatWest and the surveyor 
about what needed to be done caused delays and NatWest should have made it clear, 
based on the valuation report, what needed to be done for it to lend.
I think at times there was poor communication here. However, I dont think its reasonable to 
say that NatWest is responsible for the delays which resulted in Mr and Mrs W not going 
ahead with their porting application. 
The valuation report said the property was in poor condition and not mortgageable. It set out 
a non-exhaustive list of specialist reports and repairs necessary to make the property 
mortgageable. In summary, this included electrics, the chimney stacks, the roof over the 
front bay and flood resilience. It also said there was penetrating damp and a specialist 
contractor should inspect and carry out all remedial work. NatWest provided a copy of the 
valuation report to Mr and Mrs W.
The valuation report didnt set out the work needed in detail. But I wouldnt expect it to. The 
surveyor carried out a basic mortgage valuation. The specialist contractors should have 
identified the remedial work required. Mr and Mrs W say they had their own more detailed 
survey carried out.
The surveyor recommended that Mr and Mrs W had reports addressed to them, for their own 
benefit. I dont think that was unreasonable. However, there was some poor communication 
about whether it was acceptable to NatWest for reports and other documents to be 
addressed to the vendors (and transferred to Mr and Mrs W on completion). This took about 
a week to resolve. While this must have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W, I dont think this 
caused delays to their porting application.
When Mr and Mrs W provided documents about the work carried out at the property to 
NatWest, it forwarded them to the surveyor. The surveyor responded and its response was 
then passed to Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W say this led to delays. But I dont think that this 
was the main cause of the delays, and in any event I think it was reasonable for NatWest to 
ask for the surveyors opinion about the work done.
The surveyor said the reports and certificates it received didnt detail what work had been 
done. The surveyor said they couldnt assess what repair work had been carried out without 
a schedule of works which should have been provided by the contractor. The surveyor 
raised an issue about some of the documents being addressed to a third party (possibly a 
contractor) rather than the vendor. 
Added to this, the surveyor said they hadnt received evidence that all the remedial work 
required in the valuation report had been completed. 
The valuation report said that a specialist contractor should be instructed to undertake all 
necessary repairs to the chimney stacks. The surveyor said, based on the reports provided 
by Mr and Mrs W, work had only been carried out to one chimney stack, it wasnt clear which 
chimney stack or what work had been done. Mr and Mrs W say the valuation report should 
have said front and rear chimney stacks. While this might have made matters clearer, this 
wasnt the only part of the repair work that hadnt been completed.
The valuation report required that a specialist contractor was instructed to install flood 
resilience measures. The surveyor hadnt received evidence this had been done by early 
March 2020. Mrs W asked about the damp report in mid-February 2020  its not clear if this 
work had been undertaken by early March 2020. Mr and Mrs W say they were told in early March 2020 that some work could be undertaken 
after completion provided there was a quote that could be reflected in the property valuation. 
Mr and Mrs W said theyd been told initially this wasnt possible. That doesnt mean NatWest 
made an error. The valuation report said the property wasnt mortgageable without remedial 
work. NatWest was entitled to rely on the expert opinion of the surveyor. Its unlikely 
NatWest would have agreed to lend until the remedial work was completed  or sufficiently 
complete for the surveyor to give their opinion of the propertys value.
This must have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs W. They had to deal with their sale and 
purchase and mortgage application, as well as the additional challenges related to the work 
to the property they wanted to buy. As the work was undertaken by the vendor theyd have 
had limited control over it. But, ultimately, NatWest was entitled to make a decision whether 
to lend, including whether the property was suitable security. It was entitled to rely on the 
expert opinion of the surveyor  which was that the property wasnt mortgageable until 
remedial work was completed. 
Mr and Mrs W say they had to complete their sale. This left them living in temporary 
accommodation and worried about losing the property they wanted to buy. They decided to 
apply for a mortgage elsewhere, despite this meaning they had to pay an ERC to NatWest. 
While I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration about the position they were in, I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require NatWest to refund the ERC. NatWest provided the 
valuation report to Mr and Mrs W. It was their decision to go ahead with a porting application 
for this property knowing remedial work needed to be completed. I dont think its reasonable 
to say that the valuation report or NatWest had to set out in further detail the work that was 
needed  I think it was reasonable to expect the specialist contractors to do this. I dont think 
I can reasonably find that the reason the surveyor hadnt received evidence that the required 
work had been completed by early March 2020 was due to an error by NatWest. And I dont 
think its reasonable to say that NatWest could make a lending decision before receiving a 
valuation of the property.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman