DRN-3193222
The complaint
Mr E complains DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined his 
claim for cover to bring a legal claim against his mortgage providers for overcharging 
interest.
What happened
From 1 April 2021 Mr E had legal expenses insurance cover (LEI) underwritten by DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) as part of his home insurance policy. 
In around May 2021 Mr E was advised hed been overcharged interest on two buy-to-let 
mortgages taken out with separate lenders in 2006 and 2008. In mid-June 2021 Mr E made 
a claim on the LEI section of the policy to cover the cost of taking legal proceedings against 
the lenders concerned. 
DAS said Mr E wasnt covered under the policy for the claim he wanted to make and, later, 
in their response to his complaint, that hed brought his claim outside the period of cover in 
any event. Mr E says DAS failed to consider or understand his claim properly and wrongly 
declined it. DAS rejected Mr Es complaint. They apologised that they hadnt given Mr E all 
the reasons why theyd turned his claim down initially. But they said their decision to do so 
had been right. 
Our investigator agreed DAS were right to say Mr E wasnt covered under the policy for the 
legal action he wished to take. And she didnt uphold Mr Es complaint to this service. Since 
Mr E didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Es LEI insurance, DAS agreed to pay certain legal costs and 
expenses for incidents insured under the policy, provided, amongst other things, the incident 
happened during the insurance period.The only potentially relevant insured incident covered 
by the policy in Mr Es case is under the contract disputes section. And the relevant part of 
that section says:
We will cover the costs and expenses for the following: 
Your legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement or an alleged 
agreement which you have entered into for:
- The buying or hiring in of any goods or services or the selling of any goods.

Provided that
You have entered into the agreement or alleged agreement during the insurance 
period
DAS said theres no cover under the policy in relation to claims Mr E wants to make against 
his mortgage providers because the mortgage contracts dont fall within the definition of an 
agreement for the buying or hiring of services. Mr E disagrees. 
Broadly, a contract for services exists where a service provider, such as a consultant, builder 
or cleaner, agrees to carry out some work for the customer. Typically, the contract would 
include provisions for things like service levels, price, performance, data protection, non-
competition and ownership of intellectual property. Whilst some of those provisions might 
appear in a mortgage contract, for example, relating to data protection and price (interest 
rates), the nature of a mortgage contract is different. 
A mortgage is a debt owed by a customer to, usually, a bank or building society. In return for 
lending money, the borrower agrees to the mortgage provider taking a legal charge over 
their property to secure the loan. And the charge is only released once the debt has been 
repaid. The price for the loan is the payment of interest. The lender isnt providing a service 
even though there will be communication between the lender  or another company on their 
behalf  to collect interest and other payments over the term of the mortgage. 
Bearing the above in mind, I dont think a mortgage can properly be described as an 
agreement for the buying or hiring of services. So, I agree there is no cover under the LEI 
policy in relation to the claim Mr E wants to make against the lenders and DAS were right to 
decline Mr Es insurance claim. And, since I dont think theres any cover under the LEI 
policy, it isnt necessary for me to consider whether Mr Es claim fell within the insurance 
period. 
Mr Es disappointed about how DAS looked into his complaint. He was initially unhappy they 
hadnt understood his complaint or considered it properly before deciding there was no 
cover. When he complained, DAS asked Mr E for more information. He felt DAS took too 
long to tell him their decision. 
I can understand why Mr E felt DAS hadnt looked into things properly at first. It was only 
when he questioned their decision that DAS asked for more information. And I think DASs 
letter of 28 June 2021, which said the policy only responded where legal action is required 
as a last resort, was confusing. But they came to the same conclusion once theyd looked at 
the information Mr E provided, even though they also said then that the claim related to 
events that happened outside the period the insurance covered. 
Mr E made his claim in mid-June and DAS gave their final response to his complaint at the 
beginning of August. Overall, I think the time DAS took to consider things was reasonable. 
And I think their apology that they didnt set out all the reasons why theyd declined Mr Es 
complaint initially, was fair to put that right. 
I am sorry to hear Mr Es health isnt good and I can understand he will have found it difficult 
dealing with his insurance claim and complaint. But, bearing everything in mind, whilst I 
understand it will be disappointing for Mr E, I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman