DRN-2039781
The complaint
Mrs L complains that, in 2009, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Mrs L originally had a fee-free bank account with Lloyds. In 2001 her account was upgraded 
to a Gold Service account; and in 2002 to a Platinum account. These were both PBAs 
with various benefits in return for a monthly fee. In 2020, Lloyds upheld Mrs Ls complaints 
about those PBAs and returned nearly all the fees she had paid, with interest. 
In February 2009, the account was changed into a Premier PBA. This cost £25 per month 
and came with benefits including car breakdown insurance, worldwide travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance, home emergency insurance, Sentinel card protection, and an 
interest free overdraft up to £500. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs L didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs L says she had little need for the benefits that came with the account and that the 
account was very expensive. Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at 
whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
First, I dont have any evidence Mrs L was made to think she had to take the PBA  and 
this isnt something Mrs L is alleging. She says she had a meeting with Lloyds and agreed 
to accept their recommendation to upgrade her account. 
When Lloyds recommended the Premier account to Mrs L, it had to make sure it was an 
appropriate recommendation for her individual circumstances. And I think it would have 
been, from what I can see of the insurance needs Mrs L may have had at the time. It 
appears she ran a car, had a mobile phone, occasionally travelled outside the UK and 
also had a home to look after. She could have potentially taken out insurance separately 
for all these areas, whereas in one package the PBA offered car breakdown, mobile 
phone, travel and home emergency cover. And I cant see that there was anything 
significant about Mrs Ls circumstances that would have made that insurance unsuitable 
for her. 
So, from the Lloyds advisers point of view, there would have appeared several ways that 
Mrs L could have benefitted from the PBA. But, ultimately, it would then have been for 
Mrs L to decide whether she thought the benefits the PBA offered, and the convenience of 
having them all provided in one place by the bank, was worth paying the monthly fee. 
As this all happened about 12 years ago, its hard to know exactly how much detail Lloyds 
gave Mrs L. But it seems unlikely she would have agreed to the PBA without the basic 
information needed for a decision. I cant think of information about the account that is 
likely to have made her change her mind about taking the Premier account.
If, in later years, Mrs L thought the PBA wasnt worth the monthly fee, she would have 
been free to cancel it and return to a fee-free account. 
So, even if Mrs L now thinks she didnt get good value from the account, it doesnt mean 
that Lloyds recommendation in 2009 was inappropriate. And the fact that Lloyds has 
decided that it should refund the fees for the earlier PBAs doesnt mean that its 
recommendation of the 2009 PBA was wrong. 
Overall, I dont think the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman