DRN-2646176
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to Ms U. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Ms U was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms Us representative 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms U has said, but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The form, which Ms U signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and a box ticked to confirm 
she wanted the PPI. Ms U says PPI wasnt mentioned during the sale and she simply signed 
where she was told to. I can see Ms U signed to confirm she wanted the PPI (described as 
account cover on the form). So I think she most likely knew shed bought it, and despite what 
she now recalls, it was made clear it was optional.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Us 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Ms U to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Ms U clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least the information on the 
form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what, if any, other information was given to 
Ms U. Ms U says she had a pre-existing medical condition at the time, which wouldnt have 
been covered. Ive thought about whether that would have made a difference to her when 
buying the policy. Ms U says the illness was well controlled, she didnt have any problems 
day to day and shes never taken time off work because of her illness. So I dont think 
clearer information would have affected her decision, as its not likely shed have thought it 
important to be able to claim for time off work related to this illness.
Given Ms Us circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. 
I say this because its seems the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full employer 
sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy 
pay. And she could have kept in reserve any other means she had for meeting her living 
costs and debts. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it doesnt 
look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy  other 
than the pre-existing illness she had, which I covered earlier.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman