DRN-3829858
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr M explains that his account at Barclays was closed in January 2019 and that since then 
he found out that the marker had been registered. He says this is affecting his ability to 
access an account elsewhere and has led to financial difficulty and health issues for him.
Barclays said that it wouldnt be removing the marker. Between 27 November and 13 
December 2018, Mr M had received 14 payments into his account which totalled £5,450. 
These had been reported as fraudulently obtained and all the money had been taken out.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there is a high 
bar for registering a marker. Here there were clear reports of fraud on Mr Ms account.
Mr M had explained that following a bereavement and the loss of his job in May to June 
2018, he had moved into shared accommodation. He had a partner and was unsure if she 
had access to his account online. He said that the post for the accommodation was all 
received at reception and could have been intercepted. And that other people could come 
into his room and he left his debit card there with the PIN written on the back. He said that 
he didnt need to view his account online as he only received benefits and he didnt recall if 
he saw statements.
Our adjudicator noted that on 5 November 2018, Mr M had visited a branch to query a 
charge which was refunded. So, she thought Mr M had access to his account at the time. 
Some of the withdrawals of fraudulent funds were made at an ASD machine and so 
required his date of birth as verification. She didnt think it likely that if Mr Ms card had been 
lying around and someone took it thered be money left in his account as happened here. 
And there was no explanation why this only seemed to happen when fraudulent funds had 
been received into his account. She thought he was aware of the payments.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he thought more investigation should have taken place including 
of CCTV evidence and if this wasnt available he didnt think that this should be held against 
him. He was at shared accommodation and there was a risk of his information being 
discovered. He wanted things investigated by police and considered by a court as he was 
being accused of fraud. And he emphasised that he cant get other than a prepaid account 
and the marker is affecting him financially. It has also had a serious impact on his mental 
health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to set out that this service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent a court. 
Ill be thinking about what is most likely taking into account what Barclays and Mr M have 
said and provided.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Barclays has provided evidence of the reports of the fraudulent payments into Mr Ms 
account. And I can see that these were withdrawn on the day of receipt. This took place 
during a period when Mr M was using his account for genuine transactions and making 
undisputed card payments himself. Im struggling to see why hed leave his card and PIN in 
his room as he says given he knew others had access. But on his version of events 
someone would have needed to take and replace his card without him knowing. And to be 
able to anticipate and know when these funds were due. As our investigators pointed out  
Mr M did seem to be able to monitor his account at around this time. If hed allowed 
someone else access to his account - for example an ex-partner - then hed also be 
reasonably responsible for how that person used his account. And even if CCTV had been 
available it often doesnt help resolve if a person shown is acting with authority or not. 
This account seemed to be Mr Ms main one and Barclays has no record of him querying his 
account closure at the time. When he spoke to Barclays in June 2022 he seemed to already 
say he knew that the account activity was undertaken by a partner, but hes been less clear 
about that now and has no evidence to support what he says.
Having considered all these factors Im not persuaded that Mr M didnt reasonably know 
about the use of his account in this way and I conclude it most likely that he was a witting 
participant in what happened.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
Im satisfied that it also acted in line with the terms and conditions in closing the account. I 
understand the difficulties Mr M describes as a result but Im afraid I dont have a reasonable 
basis to require Barclays to do anything further. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains 
free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman