DRN-2210206
The complaint
Mr. L complains that FCE Bank Plc (FCE) wrongly took an additional payment of £281.68 on 
his finance agreement, delayed dealing with issues relating to the rejection of his car and 
didnt issue a new finance agreement after he was given a replacement vehicle. Mr. L would 
like the additional payment refunded and compensation for the delay following the rejection
What happened
Mr. L says FCE agreed to rejection of his car. But he says he isnt happy that FCE expected 
him to hand back his car before refunding money due to him. He wanted a simultaneous 
return and refund. He also wanted his credit file to be updated immediately but it wasnt.
He says FCE shouldnt have taken a monthly payment of £281.68 from his account in 
November 2018.He feels this was an overpayment due to the new vehicle not yet being 
ready to collect.
Mr. L also says a few months into his prior fianc agreement he was given a replacement 
car. He doesnt feel any payments made from then on were valid as he doesnt believe he 
signed a new contract
Finally, Mr. L asked FCE to refund a £80 fee to remove a cherished plate and a £55 fee to 
change his insurance details
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr. Ls complaint. He found that FCE issued Mr. L the refund 
due on rejection of his car before it got the car back as a gesture of goodwill which he felt 
was reasonable. That delays in updating the credit file largely occurred due to the delay in 
Mr. L handing the car back but, as with the refund, FCE had amended the credit file prior to 
getting the car back.  He said the settlement figure for finance would have taken into account 
the disputed payment Mr. L made in November 2019 so there would have been no financial 
loss and during that time Mr. L did have use of the car. He had evidence Mr. L had signed a 
new finance agreement in September 2016 with details of the replacement car listed. Mr. L 
had use of this car, so it was fair he paid for it.
With regard to the fees for the plate and insurance he had no evidence that Mr. L had 
incurred these charges 
FCE accepted this view but Mr. L didnt.  He said the £281.68 formed no part of any 
agreement with FCE. .He suggested a compromise in that he was refunded half of that sum 
as he had use of the car for two weeks in that month. He also provided proof of the costs of 
insurance (£44.86) and for the number plate (£80) which he felt it was fair to be refunded.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He said the November 
payment was a regular monthly payment and that payment would have been considered in 
the settlement figures. Also, as FCE was not involved in the delay in picking up the new 
vehicle it wasnt responsible for this delay.
With regard to the receipts provided he noted the receipt for the plate was dated prior to the 
new agreement and was for a plate that wasnt put on the new car. As Mr. L chose to end 
the previous agreement, he felt this was a fee he would have incurred regardless of FCEs 
actions if he wanted to keep the plate so didnt feel it was fair to ask FCE to reimburse this 
fee.
He said the insurance fee related to a registration number that didnt relate to either the old 
or new vehicle. He suggested Mr. L might have sent this in error and suggested he sent the 
correct documentation to be considered.
Mr. L didnt accept this further view. He said he firmly believed the £281.68 payment formed 
no part of either finance agreement which had been acknowledged by both the dealership 
and FCE. He felt FCE were deliberately withholding evidence to confirm this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr. L feels strongly about his complaint and I do understand that. I also appreciate he is 
going to be disappointed as Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
As I understand it many of the issues Mr. L first raised have been dealt with, so I dont 
propose to go into them in detail here other than to summaries as follows. The refund due on 
rejection and the updating of Mr. Ls credit file as I understand it were finally both actioned by 
FCE prior to getting the car back as a gesture of goodwill. I dont think it was unreasonable 
to expect the car to be returned prior to these actions being carried out. So, I think as FCE 
went ahead prior to getting the car back I cant see it can have done much more.
Our investigator has evidenced that Mr. L did sign a new agreement for a replacement car. 
But even if he hadnt, he isnt disputing he had use of the car, so he did have to make the 
relevant payments for it.
The outstanding issues relate to the payment Mr. L made in November 2018. And the cost 
incurred with regard to the change of insurance and the number plate.
In respect of the fees for the number plate and insurance change I agree with the view of our 
investigator. The receipt for the number plate fee was dated prior to the new agreement and 
for a plate that wasnt put on the car so I dont think I can reasonably expect FCE to refund 
that cost.
Similarly, the insurance receipt relates to a registration number that doesnt accord with 
either the old or new agreement. Our investigator did suggest this might be a mistake if so, 
suggested Mr. L provided the correct receipt. But as we havent received any new 
information, I cant reasonably expect FCE to refund costs that dont seem to be associated 
with either agreement.
In terms of the monthly payment taken in November 2018 of £281.68 as I understand it the 
deposit for the new car was paid on 3 November 2018 with the cars due to be exchanged on 
10 November 2018. This was delayed due to the new vehicle having been damaged on 
transportation. I understand the old car was handed in on 1 December 2018 in exchange for 
the new one.
Mr. L has made the point that FCE were not aware of any delay until 17 December 2018. I 
am not sure that is relevant. I think if Mr. L had use of the car it was reasonable for him to 
continue to make the monthly payments for it.Mr. L has told us the dealership confirmed the disputed payment didnt form part of either the 
new or old agreement. He hasnt evidenced this but even if the dealer made that statement, I 
dont feel its reasonable to have use of a car for free - unless that had been specifically 
agreed but I cant see any evidence that was the case.
I understand the previous finance agreement wasnt settled until the beginning of December 
2018 so the old agreement would still have been in force at the time the disputed payment 
was made. And I would have expected that payment to have been considered in settling the 
old account and setting up the new one. I havent seen any evidence that this wasnt the 
case. And Mr. L hasnt suggested there is any issue with the settlement figure. So, on that 
basis I dont feel I can reasonably ask FCE to refund this payment.
I also dont feel I can reasonably ask FCE to pay any compensation as Mr. L has requested 
as I havent found FCE has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman