DRN-2851216
The complaint
Mr J complains about the decision by Society of Lloyds (SoL) to turn down his 
unemployment claim and cancel his policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr J took out the policy through a broker.
The following year, Mr J was made redundant and made a claim.
SoL turned down the claim as it said Mr J hadnt been eligible for the cover when the 
policy was taken out. It returned the premiums hed paid. 
Unhappy with this, Mr J brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought SoL had 
been entitled to turn down the claim and cancel the cover, as Mr J hadnt been 
eligible for the policy.
Mr J didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
The policy makes it clear that, to be eligible for cover, the applicant would need to be 
a homeowner on the policy start date. It then explains that means they need to own 
their normal place of residence either outright or with a mortgage. 
As Mr J didnt own his place of residence outright, and wasnt named on the 
mortgage, SoL found that he hadnt been eligible for the cover when it was taken out. 
Although Mr J says that he was previously named on the mortgage, he hasnt 
provided any evidence to support that this was the case when the policy was taken 
out. The information hes provided only shows that he was on the mortgage in 2018. 
If he does obtain information which shows he was named on the mortgage when the 
policy was taken out, he should send it to SoL for consideration. 
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied it was reasonable for SoL to say that 
Mr J hadnt been eligible for the policy when it was taken out. As SoL hadnt been on 
risk to ever pay a claim under the policy, it was appropriate for it to return the 
premiums Mr J had paid. 
SoL says the policy documents were sent to Mr J when the policy was taken out, and 
then again at renewal, though Mr J says he didnt receive them. I cant be certain 
whether Mr J received the information from SoL, though in any event, it was the 
brokers responsibility to provide Mr J with the relevant information about the policy 
and to ensure he was eligible for the cover.
Mr J has raised a complaint against the broker, which Ive considered separately.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman