DRN-3802722
The complaint
Mr L complained because the amount ReAssure Limited is paying him for his annuity is less 
than the amount it quoted.
What happened
On 17 January 2022 ReAssure sent Mr L a letter which outlined two retirement options:
an annual pension of £2,840.28, or
taking £17,243.89 as tax-free cash and an annual pension of £1,171.14.
Mr L wanted to take his retirement benefits so ReAssure wrote to him on 2 February 2022 
with its annuity quote of £1,171.14 per year. It enclosed various forms which Mr L completed 
and returned.
On 3 March 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr L confirming the annuity that was being set up. It 
said:
£17,266.53 would be paid to Mr L as a lump sum tax free payment
£13,970.30 would be left to buy an annuity
which would be £1,109.28 per year.
Mr L complained to ReAssure as the annuity payment was less than what was quoted.
ReAssure said the quotes were incorrect and while it recognised it would pay Mr L less than 
was quoted it could only pay him the correct entitlement from his pension. It nevertheless 
offered Mr L £250 compensation as an apology.
Mr L didnt accept ReAssures offer so he referred his complaint to us. He told us his 
intention was to combine various pensions into one pot and take an annuity, but he decided 
not to include this one as, based on his calculations, he would be slightly better off accepting 
ReAssures quote (although he said it was touch and go). But having done further 
calculations using the new figure he says he would have chosen to combine this pension 
with the other ones.
What I provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below and form part of my 
final decision.
I thought ReAssure had effectively accepted that it made a mistake because in its letter 
to Mr L it said things like It was in both of these letters that the incorrect values were 
unfortunately provided and We incorrectly entered a higher annuity income in the 
quotes provided, which shouldnt have happened and Please accept my personal 
apologies for the errors made.
When a business makes a mistake I look to put the consumer as closely as possible 
back into the position they would have been in were it not for the mistake. However, I 
wasnt persuaded that ReAssure had satisfactorily shown that ,or explained why, the 
original quoted figure was a mistake.
I didnt think it was enough for ReAssure to simply say something along the lines of 
Sorry, we made a mistake, the figure we quoted was wrong. In my view, it needed to 
provide clarity as to what happened and show why one figure was right and the other 
was wrong. Otherwise, it was too easy for ReAssure to offer higher quotes, set up 
annuities for a lower figure, and put it down to a mistake. There was nothing to show 
here that the revised figure was correct  it was possible it too was a mistake.
I therefore concluded it was unfair for ReAssure to set up Mr Ls annuity on the lower 
figure.
Having reached that conclusion, I went on to consider what ReAssure should do to put 
things right.
I dont have the power to punish or fine a business for bad practice so the gravity of the 
error or how often it was made wasnt something I considered. I looked at the effect the 
error had on Mr L  essentially, I wanted to put Mr L back into the position he would 
otherwise have been in but for the error/unfairness.
Mr L chose to proceed with the annuity based on the quote provided so I thought the 
redress I awarded should be based on that. I couldnt calculate precisely what Mr Ls 
loss would be as it was impossible to predict how long he would live for. But I felt £1,100 
compensation for Mr Ls probable financial loss was fair in this case. That was because:
othe difference between the quoted annuity and the actual annuity was about £62 
per year
oMr L was 68 when the annuity started and his life expectancy is 85 years 
(accordingly to the life expectancy calculator on the Office for National Statistics 
website)
oso, on average, he could expect to receive annuity payments for 18 years
othe tax-free cash that Mr L received was about £23 more than he was originally 
quoted
oand 18 years x £62 per year  £23 = roughly £1,100
ReAssure had already offered to pay Mr L £250 to say sorry for the inconvenience its 
error caused. Although I wasnt persuaded there was an error, I thought ReAssure 
caused Mr L unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But I thought the £250 offered 
was fair compensation for this.
Responses to my provisional decision
I havent heard anything further from ReAssure.
Mr L said he had nothing further to add and that he accepted my provisional decision. He 
nevertheless pointed out an error in my proposed award as I said I was minded to require 
ReAssure to pay him £1,000 compensation even though Id calculated it to be £1,100.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider, my final decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision (apart from the error regarding the amount of compensation)  for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to pay Mr L £1,100 compensation for his 
losses. To avoid any doubt, this compensation is in addition to the £250 already offered for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman