DRN-2454638
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund a disputed transaction.  She also 
complains about the way it handled her complaint.   
What happened
Miss A complained to Barclays on 7th May 2019 about a transaction on her account.  She 
said she had been on holiday and has brought a tablet from a local shop.  Having bought the 
tablet, she was persuaded to then buy an upgraded version.  Miss A had paid approximately 
300 euros originally and the price of the upgrade was approximately 500 euros. She said 
she had assumed the shop owner would simply charge the extra  but in fact he had 
charged her the full 500 euros again. Essentially, Miss A said she had been charged 
approximately 800 euros instead of just 500 euros.
Miss A told Barclays she thought she had paid the 300 euros on a currency card and the 500 
euros using her Barclays account.
In response to Miss As complaint, Barclays provided her with a temporary credit and raised 
a chargeback claim with the merchants back.  The merchants bank responded with 
evidence to show Barclays it was entitled to credit the amount it had.
Barclays wrote to Miss A on 12th June to advise her it had heard back and referred her to the 
evidence provided by the merchant.  It told Miss A she had 10 working days to respond and 
challenge this evidence.
On 19th June, Miss A had a telephone conversation with Barclays.  She was reminded during 
this call that she had a further five more working days left in order to respond  in other 
words by 26th June.  The call seemed to have been instigated by Miss A as she was seeking 
clarification or wanted to clarify matters with Barclays  its not clear which.  The adviser also 
explained to Miss A that she should send her response to the address which could be found 
on the letter she had received from Barclays.
On 27th June, having not heard from Miss A, Barclays closed its complaint and re-debited 
her account.
Barclays did not think it had done anything wrong in how it dealt with Miss As complaint, so 
she brought it to this service.
She told us she had responded to the chargeback letter from Barclays by dropping off all her 
documents into a branch on 18th June.  She felt she was being penalised because staff had 
somehow lost these.  She insisted she should be refunded the amount in dispute.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint.  He thought Barclays had acted fairly  so the 
matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects of this complaint which I will deal with separately  but Im afraid its 
bad news for Miss A as I dont intend to uphold her complaint either.
authorisation
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The rules relevant to Miss As case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs).  
What these say is that if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Miss A 
authorised this transaction, Barclays is entitled to hold her liable.
Authorisation consists of authentication and consent.  Authentication is the use of Miss As 
genuine card and PIN.  Miss A doesnt dispute she used her card to make the transaction, 
so I am satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
Turning then to consent  the rules say that Miss A consented to the payment when she 
entered her card and PIN into the terminal  even if she now disputes the amount.  
So, as I have found the payment to be authorised, I dont think I can fairly ask Barclays to 
refund the amount.
chargeback
Miss A says she paid 300 euros on a currency card and only intended to pay for the upgrade 
value on her Barclays card.  on my calculations, the value of her claim should be in the 
region of about 200 euros  not the £502.31 she complains about.
In any event, I am satisfied Barclays has acted fairly here and I am satisfied that Miss A 
failed to provide any evidence in support of the chargeback.
Ive listened to a call between Miss A and Barclays which took place on 19th June. During 
this call Miss A tells the adviser that she has no receipts of guarantees for the tablet she had 
purchased.  The adviser tells her to write everything down and they would be able to scan it 
onto the system.  She advises Miss A to send the documents to the address which she 
would find in Barclays letter to her  not to drop it off in branch as Miss A suggests.
So, when Miss A says she dropped her supporting documents off to a branch on 18th June, 
she is clearly mistaken.  Had she done this the day before the telephone call on 19th, I 
wouldnt expect her to be asking the adviser how many days she had left to submit her 
evidence.  I would also expect her to have told the adviser she had already submitted her 
documents.  She doesnt do this either.
On this basis, I cant see Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it dealt with 
Miss As complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman