DRN-4381706
The complaint
Miss W complains Think Money Limited (TML) blocked and closed her account. She also 
complains that TML havent released money that was paid into her account to her and sent it 
back to source. 
What happened
Miss W had an account with TML. Miss W says she used the account to receive payments 
from two individuals who bought dogs from her. I will refer to these individuals as Miss A and 
Mr M.
Miss W has explained that in early June 2022, she sold a dog to Mr M for £720 and another 
dog to Miss A for £760. She said that both Miss A and Mr M visited her address and 
collected the dogs. The payment from Mr M credited Miss Ws account. The payment from 
Miss A wasnt applied to Miss Ws account. 
TML received a notification from another bank that their customer, had paid Miss W for a 
dog that she hadnt received. As a result of this information TML reviewed Miss Ws account 
which included payments that had been made into her account and pending payments, 
which included Miss As payment. TML didnt question Miss W about the payments she had 
received from Mr M or Miss A.
Following its review TML returned both payments to the sending banks, amounting to 
£1,480. And it decided to close Miss Ws account. TML wrote to Miss W giving her seven 
days notice that she needed to make alternative banking arrangements.
Miss W complained to TML and asked them to return the money to her. She told TML that 
the transactions were legitimate, and she hadnt done anything wrong. She explained she 
was out of pocket and without her dogs. And was now having difficulty opening another bank 
account.  In response, TML said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions. It said it wouldnt return the £1,480 to Miss W.
Unhappy with this response Miss W brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. They asked Miss W for some more 
information about the sales of the dogs she said shed made. Miss W provided the 
investigator with screenshots of conversations shed had with Miss A and Mr M. These 
showed that Miss W had sold each of them a dog, and that Miss A and Mr M were in 
possession of the dogs after collecting them from Miss W.
The investigator looked at the information Miss W had provided. She said TML hadnt done 
anything wrong by closing and reviewing Miss Ws account. But she said TML hadnt done 
enough to be satisfied that Miss W wasnt entitled to the money Miss A and Mr M paid into 
her account. So, she said TML hadnt treated Miss W fairly when it sent the money back to 
source and it should refund Miss W the payments. She also said TML should pay Miss W 
£500 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused her along with interest for loss 
of use of the funds.
Miss W agreed. TML didnt. It said it had relied on he terms and conditions to do what it did 
and hadnt seen any of the evidence that Miss W had provided to the investigator. Following 
this the investigator sent TML everything Miss W had provided about the transactions. But 
TML didnt provide any further comments.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Ws complaint is that she wants TML to refund her the money she says she 
lost as a result of the dogs she sold to Miss A and Mr M.  Having looked at all the evidence 
and circumstances of this complaint, Im currently minded to say that the fair and reasonable 
outcome is that TML refund Miss W. I shall explain why.
TML decided to return the funds to the sending business, so that their customers, Miss A 
and Mr M could be refunded. TML have said it did this on the basis of the outcome of its 
review of Miss Ws account and said the terms and conditions of the account allowed them 
to do this. The effect of TMLs actions meant that Miss W had lost both the dogs which shed 
sold legitimately to Miss A and Mr M and the money she had expected in payment for them.
TML have relied on the terms and conditions of the account to return the money which state: 
our procedures and usual security and risk checks apply to all payments made to and from 
your account. This may result in us holding, delaying or refusing to accept a transaction or 
instruction. 
Having considered this term and the circumstances of this complaint, which includes the 
concerns TML had about how Miss W was operating her account, Id expect any review and 
risk checks to at least include speaking or engaging with Miss W so that it could establish if 
Miss W was entitled to the money paid into her account. This is in line with the industry best 
practice standards. TML hadnt received any reports to suggest that she wasnt entitled to 
the two payments from Miss A and Mr M. So, Im not sure how TML satisfied themselves 
that Miss W didnt have a legal right to the funds. With this in mind, I dont accept TML acted 
fairly when it returned the payments to source. 
Miss W has sent us evidence that the payments she received from Miss A and Mr M were 
made for dogs she sold to them. She has sent us screen shots of conversations she had 
with both individuals and from looking at them Is satisfied that Miss A and Mr M both 
received the dogs. The messages also show that Miss W attempted to recover her funds 
from Miss A after TML returned the money. However, it is quite clear that Miss A is 
deliberately avoiding returning the funds to Miss W despite being in possession of the dog 
she bought from Miss W. 
Ive not seen any evidence that TML asked Miss W about the payments she received from 
Mr M or Miss A  before it decided to return them to source. If TML had asked Miss W about 
her dealings with both individuals, I think its likely she wouldve provided the information that 
she has given to this service to TML at the time. Therefore, I cant see any reason for TML to 
return the money to the sending banks. Based on what Ive seen I think its most likely 
Miss W was engaged in genuine transactions with Miss A and Mr M. And received the 
payments from them for legitimate sales of dogs. I dont think TML did enough to satisfy 
themselves that Miss W wasnt entitled to the money paid into her account. Ive considered what Miss W has said about how TMLs actions impacted her. Miss W had to 
spend time contacting TML trying to sort out what had happened to her funds. And she had 
to spend time chasing Miss A and Mr M trying to get her money back. I think Miss W has 
made reasonable efforts to minimise the financial losses by contacting both Miss A and Mr M 
 unfortunately without any success. So, shes been left out of pocket. I dont think TML did 
enough to satisfy themselves that Miss W wasnt entitled to the money paid into her account 
in the first place. So, I think they should refund her as she is now at a financial loss. I think 
adding interest to the amount they refund her fairly compensates her for the loss of use of 
this money. 
I also think TML should pay Miss W compensation for the trouble and upset this overall 
situation has caused her.  Miss W has said that she has been affected both financially and 
mentally. She has explained that she has two young children with serious health conditions 
and being without the funds made it difficult for her to provide for them. She has said that the 
stress that she suffered because of TMLs action made it hard for her to concentrate on 
sorting out the needs of her children. Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that 
TMLs decision to send back the payments has caused Miss W considerable distress and 
inconvenience which could have been avoided if TML asked Miss W about the payments 
she received. So, I consider the amount of £500 compensation recommended by the 
investigator, to be appropriate in the circumstances.
Finally, I  turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ws account. Im satisfied that TML acted 
in line with the account terms and relevant regulations when it decided to close Miss Ws 
account. I can see that it gave Miss W seven days notice to find another account, which I 
dont find unreasonable. So, I cant say TML has done anything wrong or treated Miss W 
unfairly when it closed her account. I know Miss W has said she is now having a lot of 
trouble opening another bank account, but I havent seen anything to suggest that this was 
as a result of any actions taken by TML. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint. To put things right Think Money 
Limited should:
Refund Miss W £1,480
Pay Miss W simple interest at the rate of 8% on £1,480 from the date of debit until 
the date of refund.
Pay an additional £500 for the trouble and upset caused by returning the £1,480 to 
source
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman