DRN-3006795
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the service she received from Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) 
surrounding the submission of a cheque.
What happened
Miss Ms complaint was brought to this service on her behalf by an authorised 
representative. For ease of reference, I will refer to Miss M as the active complainant 
throughout this letter.
Miss M submitted a cheque for encashment to BOS. The cheque was dated 7 October 2020. 
The date that the Miss M submitted the cheque was 6 April 2021. This meant that the 
cheque was submitted to BOS one day before the expiry date of the cheque, which was six 
months from the date on the cheque  in this instance, 7 April 2021.
No indication was given at the time that Miss M submitted the cheque that it wouldnt be 
accepted by BOS. However, a few days later Miss M received a letter from BOS returning 
the cheque on the grounds that it couldnt be processed within expiry and advising that a 
new cheque would need to be submitted in order for the funds to be cleared. 
Miss M contacted BOS about this and was told that cheques needed to be presented to BOS 
a minimum of ten working days before the six-month expiry deadline in order to clear 
through BOSs system while still within expiry. Miss M had several telephone calls with BOS 
about this matter and BOS made a payment of £19 to Miss M to cover the costs of these 
telephone calls. But Mss M was still unhappy that BOS wouldnt honour the cheque, so she 
raised a complaint. 
BOS looked at Miss Ms complaint and made a further payment of £50 to her as 
compensation for the inconvenience shed incurred. However, BOSs response letter stated 
incorrectly that Miss M had been told in branch that she couldnt submit the cheque as it was 
within ten working of the cheques expiry date. Miss M wasnt happy about BOSs error in 
stating this and followed up on her complaint accordingly. BOS agreed that it had made an 
incorrect statement in its complaint response letter and is paid a further £83 to Miss M, 
comprising a further £50 compensation payment as well as £33 to cover the additional call 
costs of Miss M. This took the total amount of payments made to Miss M to £152.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They acknowledged that Miss M hadnt 
received the standard of service that she should have received from BOS, but they felt that 
the response that BOS had already issued, including the combined payments totalling £152, 
did represent a fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of Miss Ms complaint.
Our investigator also felt that given that the cheque in question was now many months past 
the expiry date that it wasnt reasonable to expect BOS to honour that cheque, and as such 
they agreed with BOS that a new cheque would need to be presented by Miss M in order for 
a transfer of funds by cheque to proceed. Because of these points, our investigator didnt 
recommend that this complaint be upheld in Miss Ms favour.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Miss M to have submitted the cheque 
in branch at a time that she believed the cheque could still be processed by BOS only to be 
later told that this action wasnt possible and that a new cheque would need to be submitted. 
Miss M has confirmed that this cheque was written for her by an elderly relative whom is in 
poor health such that it is uncertain that a new cheque can be obtained. 
I can sympathise with Miss M here, but it isnt for this service to instruct a business how to 
undertake its processes. As such Im satisfied that BOSs decision to not process the cheque 
on the basis of the impending expiry date is a decision that BOS were entitled to make. 
This means that it would likely always have been the case that the cheque that Miss M 
presented to BOS on 6 April 2021 wouldnt have been accepted or processed by BOS. But 
what should have happened was that Miss M should have been informed of this fact in 
branch at the time that she presented the cheque, rather than being allowed to believe that 
the cheques submission had been successful only to be told later that this wasnt the case.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding Miss Ms complaint as it relates to her request 
for BOS to honour the cheque in question, and this is because Im satisfied that as per 
BOSs policy the cheque could never have been successfully submitted, regardless of what 
Miss M was led to believe in branch.
What is clear is that the standard of service that Miss M received from BOS here falls below 
what this service would expect. BOS have acknowledged this point and have apologised to 
Miss M and made payments to her totalling £152, comprising of compensation payments for 
the upset and inconvenience Miss M incurred as well as reimbursements for the cost of the 
telephone calls Miss M had to make.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, the 
payments that BOS have already made here do feel fair to me, and I can confirm that theyre 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances. 
All of which means that while I can sympathise with Miss Ms position here, I dont feel that 
BOS acted unreasonably in declining the cheque and I do feel that the responses that BOS 
have already issued to Miss M in relation to this complaint, including the payments for 
compensation and cost of calls, do represent a fair and reasonable resolution to the poor 
standard of service aspect of this complaint. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Miss M can understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman