DRN-4076714
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society will not refund payments he says he did not 
authorise.
What happened
Between 6 April 2021 and 18 April 2021 a series of payments were made from Mr Ls 
nationwide account. Mr L says he did not authorise any of these payments. Some of the 
disputed payments were made via Mr Ls PayPal account, and PayPal has refunded most of 
those to him. But 14 payments, totalling over £7,000, were direct to a merchant.
Mr L says he received a message from Nationwide on 18 April 2021 and only then became 
aware of these payments, so he flagged them as unauthorised with Nationwide. Nationwide 
reviewed the disputed payments, but did not agree that there was evidence to show they 
had not been authorised, so it declined to refund them to Mr L. 
Mr L maintains that he did not make these payments, he says that his home internet and 
devices were compromised by hackers, and believes they made the payments.
Our Investigators looked into what had happened. Initially they felt that Nationwide should 
refund the payments given the evidence Mr L had provided about hacking of his devices. But 
following further comment from Nationwide they ultimately did not feel there was enough 
evidence to show that the payments had not been authorised by Mr L, so they did not 
recommend that Nationwide refund these payments to Mr L.
Mr L remained unhappy, so his case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator set out in their most 
recent findings, and for the same reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking Mr L 
is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself or 
allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
So, the key question here is whether Nationwide has acted fairly in concluding that Mr L did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ls genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr L consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Mr L
authorised the transactions. This is because:
- A payment was made to the same merchant as the disputed payments on 31 March 
2021. Mr L has not disputed this initial payment. And this payment was confirmed as 
legitimate via response to a text message sent to Mr Ls phone.
- The first disputed payments were on 6 April 2021, Nationwides records show that 
Mr L logged into his online banking on several occasions between this batch of 
disputed payments and the next batch, but he did not flag these payments to 
Nationwide, even though these payments used up almost the entire balance of his 
account and appear to have resulted in direct debits being returned unpaid.
- Nationwide has provided evidence to show that Mr M was regularly logging into 
online banking, and that he was making payments, which he has not claimed were 
fraudulent, from the same IP address as the disputed payments were made from  
meaning they were made from a physical location that Mr L frequently made 
payments and logged into his online banking from
- Disputed payments were authorized using a device registered to Mr L
I appreciate that Mr L has provided evidence which shows his home internet and devices 
were compromised, but Im not satisfied that evidence shows that any hacker would have 
been able to use his registered device, in a physical location that Mr L regularly used, and to 
bypass the security features of that device, to make these payments. 
I understand PayPal refunded the transactions made via its service, but I must consider this 
complaint individually. We dont know why PayPal reached the decision they did. But in this 
case, Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, on balance, its more likely that Mr L 
authorised the disputed payments made from his Nationwide account. It follows that 
Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable for them.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr L, but I hope he will understand the reasons for 
my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman