DRN-2121506
The complaint
Mr C complains about the exchange rate Santander UK Plc used when it converted a 
transfer he received from euros to sterling.
 
What happened
On 6 September 2019 Mr C sent €9,500 from an account he has abroad to his Santander 
account. Mr C has explained that the market exchange rate on that day was 1.113 euros to 
the pound but, when the funds were converted, he got a rate of 1.148. Santander wrote to 
Mr C to confirm the rate it used. 
Mr C says this led to a loss of about £300 and complained. He asked Santander to provide a 
breakdown of how it had arrived on the exchange rate and raised concerns that it had made 
a profit. 
Santander responded on 10 September 2019 and said it had used the correct exchange rate 
but didnt provide a specific breakdown. Mr C referred his complaint to our service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly and 
didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised several concerns that Santander has acted unfairly and that it profited from 
the currency conversion. Mr C has asked for a breakdown of the exchange rate used by 
Santander, something it hasnt provided. I do understand Mr C received around £300 less 
than he expected, but I havent been persuaded that Santander made an error or treated him 
unfairly by using its reference rate to convert the euros. Ill explain why. 
The account terms are of particular importance to this case. I found Santanders terms on its 
website. Under the heading Foreign currency transactions it says: 
14.2 You can make and receive payments to and from the UK and other countries. 
Payments and cash withdrawals in foreign currencywill be converted into pounds at our 
current exchange rate as at the date we received the payment instruction for that type of 
transaction. 
14.3 Our exchange rates for foreign currency payments are based on our Santander 
reference exchange rates for the relevant currency. We have a different reference rate 
depending on the size of the transaction you are buying (if you are sending a payment) or 
selling (if you are receiving a payment into your account). Details of the relevant reference 
exchange rate will be displayed online when you make a payment and are also available in 
branch or by calling us 
The account terms govern how it operates and what Santander will do. In relation to this 
complaint, Santanders terms dont say it will use the prevailing foreign exchange market or 
trading rate when it converts funds. The terms say Santander will use its reference exchange 
rate based on the currencies involved and size of the transaction. Santander says that its 
reference exchange rate on 6 September 2019 was 1.148 euros to the pound and that it 
correctly converted Mr Cs funds. Whilst I understand Mr C is unhappy at the exchange rate 
Santander used, Im satisfied it has acted in line with the account terms. 
Mr C has raised concerns that Santander may have profited from the conversion. I note Mr 
Cs point and I agree its likely Santander did make a profit from the transaction. As 
Santander is a business, I think its reasonable to say it will generally undertake services to 
make a profit. I cant uphold a complaint on the basis that Santander may have profited from 
converting funds received in a different currency. 
Santander hasnt provided a breakdown of how it sets the reference exchange rate. I 
wouldnt expect Santander to specifically set out what part of the reference exchange rate 
relates to profit or costs as theres nothing in the terms that says it has to provide that 
information. Santanders terms say it will use the reference exchange rate if it receives a 
foreign currency payment, and Im satisfied thats what it did. 
I do understand that the margin used did lead to Mr C receiving less than expected once his 
currency was converted. But Santander has acted in line with the account terms and used 
the reference exchange rate applicable when Mr C received the payment in euros. As I 
havent found Santander made an error and Im satisfied it has dealt with Mr Cs complaint 
fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman