DRN-3127347
The complaint
Mrs L complains Santander UK Plc failed to treat her fairly when she disputed transactions 
she made towards a contract to release her from a timeshare. Mrs L is represented by a 
claims management company (CMC).
What happened
Ill summarise the background, which is well known to all parties, only briefly:
Mrs L paid a company I will call MRL £2,446 on her Santander credit card on 
26 March 2017. This was a payment towards a contract she had signed with another 
company, R, to secure her release from a timeshare-like product, and claim 
compensation. Mrs L paid a further £5,708 directly to R via bank transfer from her 
Santander bank account. The contract guaranteed a full refund in the event a release 
from the timeshare was not obtained within 12 months of 25 March 2017.
R engaged a company (which is now, unusually, representing Mrs L in her complaint 
against Santander) to secure her release from the timeshare. They were unable to 
secure her release although they claimed to have done so, and she continued to 
receive bills from her timeshare company. Mrs L received some updates from the 
same company, and then an individual (PC), regarding a compensation claim, but 
ultimately this didnt go anywhere either.
Mrs L wrote to Santander on 7 November 2019 to make a claim under section 75 of 
the CCA, in relation to the above. The bank considered the claim and then declined 
it. It said this was because the fact Mrs Ls credit card payment had been made to 
MRL and not R, she was unable to make a claim.
It appears Mrs L accepted this answer at the time, but her CMC contacted Santander 
in March 2021 to resurrect her claim. Santander gave the same answer, which 
resulted in a complaint being made, but the bank refused to change its decision.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mrs Ls representatives referred the complaint to this service 
for an independent assessment. One of our investigators looked into the matter. She 
concluded that the fact Mrs Ls credit card payment had been made to MRL broke the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement which needed to be in place for her to 
be able to make a claim against the bank under section 75. She further concluded that it had 
been too late, by the time the bank became aware of the dispute, for the credit card payment 
to be reclaimed via the chargeback process.
Mrs Ls representatives disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the submissions of Mrs Ls CMC have been rather generic, I would like to thank Mrs L 
for the clear and detailed submissions she originally sent to Santander (and which the bank 
has sent to us), which have been very helpful for me in obtaining an understanding of her 
contract with R and the sequence of events. The information provided by Mrs L suggests her 
CMC was working with R and was in fact tasked with implementing the timeshare release 
and compensation claim. Given the failure of these endeavours its perhaps not surprising 
therefore that the CMC did not provide any of this information as part of its own submissions. 
Unfortunately, though it appears Mrs L might have had a good claim against R for breach of 
contract, I dont think she has a claim against Santander under section 75 of the CCA, for 
essentially the same reasons as explained by our investigator.
Mrs Ls section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA allows consumers a degree of protection when they purchase goods 
or services on a credit card, so long as certain technical conditions are met. If these 
technical conditions are met then they can make a claim against their credit card provider in 
respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or 
services. In this case Santander has said one of the technical conditions, the need for there 
to be a valid DCS agreement, has not been met.
What having a valid DCS agreement in place generally means is that the person making a 
claim needs to have used their credit card to pay the same company they say has breached 
its contract with them, or misrepresented something to them. This is a basic explanation but 
it is sufficient for the purposes of this decision.
If the payment has been made to a third party then this will often cause the chain of 
connections to be broken, and for there to be no valid claim against the credit card provider.
In Mrs Ls case, her credit card payment has not been made to R. Her payment instead went 
to MRL. On the face of it then, the necessary criteria for her to be able to make a claim 
against Santander under section 75 of the CCA, are not in place. 
There are some exceptions however, to this general rule. If two companies are associates 
as defined in section 184 of the CCA, then for the purposes of a claim under section 75 of 
the CCA, a payment to one can be treated as being the same as a payment to the other.
This is because section 187 of the CCA has the effect of making companies which are 
associates interchangeable for the purpose of the DCS agreement.
What exactly is meant by associates is very specifically defined in the CCA. Just being 
linked in some way, or having a commercial relationship, as Mrs Ls representatives have 
claimed, isnt enough by itself to make companies associates. As defined in the CCA, two 
companies will be associates of one another if they are controlled by the same people, or if 
people who control one company are associates of people who control the other company. 
People are associates of one another if they have certain familial relationships, or if they are 
in partnership.
Our investigator looked into the question of whether or not R and MRL were associates. She 
found that they were, but only until 1 December 2016, and they would have needed to have 
been associates at the time of the payment to MRL, for this exception to apply. I largely 
share our investigators analysis of the links between the companies. There was an 
individual, a Mr K who caused R and MRL to be associates up until 1 December 2016. However, it appears he then departed R, causing the association, in terms of section 184 of 
the CCA, to break.
I note that Mrs Ls representatives consider the Companies House records have been forged 
or are otherwise not a genuine representation of the length of Mr Ks involvement with R. 
They think his date of departure was backdated. But I would say this is purely speculative. It 
is correct that R did not file documents stating Mr K had left the company in December 2016, 
until some months later. But this doesnt necessarily mean he did not leave the company in 
December 2016. I would need rather more robust evidence to be able to reach that 
conclusion. I note R appears to have frequently filed documents late with Companies House, 
so the late filing regarding Mr Ks departure could just as well be down to a lack of urgency 
or ability on Rs part, rather than anything more sinister. Mrs Ls representatives have also 
pointed to the fact Mr K and his wife continued to hold a debenture over R after he left. But 
all I can really conclude from this is that he had agreed to lend money to R and this had not 
been paid back. It doesnt show he controlled R or that MRL and R continued to be 
associated in the way the CCA requires them to be. 
Ive thought carefully about whether, notwithstanding the fact R and MRL were not 
associates at the relevant time, there was anything else about their relationship which 
means it could be argued the DCS agreement was intact in this case. 
Ive thought particularly about the case our investigator referred to: Bank of Scotland v. 
Alfred Truman [2005] EWHC 583 (QB), in which the court found the DCS agreement was 
intact in a scenario where a firm of solicitors had taken credit card payments for one of its 
clients, a company importing cars. The judge observed in the course of his conclusions, that 
other scenarios would need to be resolved on a case by case basis and the liability of the 
creditor would depend on the precise contractual arrangements between the parties. The 
judge contemplated that there would be scenarios where the relationship between the 
parties would be too tenuous for a valid DCS agreement to exist. In the Alfred Truman 
case, the court had a great deal of information about exactly what the business relationship 
was between the solicitors and the car importer. 
Bearing in mind the fact the judge highlighted the importance of the precise contractual 
arrangements in cases like this, this service has attempted to obtain more information about 
the relationship, and any agreement, between R and MRL.
The information which we have been able to obtain has been inconclusive, despite attempts 
to contact the liquidators and individuals connected to MRL. Its clear enough that there was 
a relationship between the companies, as otherwise I would not have expected MRL to take 
payments for Rs customers. But I do not have enough information to establish what the 
precise contractual arrangements were between them, and so I dont think I can reach a 
conclusion that these arrangements were analogous to those in the Alfred Truman case. It 
follows that I am unable to conclude there is a valid DCS agreement in place which would 
allow Mrs L to hold Santander liable for what has happened under section
75. The bank was therefore not wrong to decline her claim.
Mrs Ls representatives have highlighted previous assessments issued by investigators at 
this service which have reached a different conclusion on similar cases. All I can say to that, 
is that those assessments do not relate to Mrs Ls case and I am not bound to reach the 
same conclusions that those investigators did. So these points do not change my decision 
on Mrs Ls case.
Should Santander have attempted a chargeback?I think our investigator reached the right conclusions regarding Santanders failure to attempt 
a chargeback. A chargeback is a means of disputing a payment made on a card, 
administered by the card networks.
Put simply, chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed and can only be attempted within 
the confines of the rules set by the card schemes (Mastercard in this case). The rules say 
there is a limited window of time in which a chargeback may be attempted, and in a scenario 
like Mrs Ls this would have been 120 days from the last date the service was supposed to 
have been provided by (subject to a maximum of 540 days from the date of the transaction). 
Her contract with R stated the timeshare release service would be completed within 12 
months (so, by 25 March 2018), meaning she would have had until 25 July 2018 to contact 
the bank to enquire about a chargeback. The first evidence I have seen of her contacting 
Santander to ask the bank for help with her problem with R was in November 2019, which 
was unfortunately far too late for a chargeback to be attempted. So I dont think the bank 
was wrong not to have pursued this avenue.
Santanders responsibilities in relation to the bank transfer
In general a bank is expected to act on the legitimate payment instructions of its customers.
So when Mrs L asked Santander to make a payment to R, it acted in the way Id have 
expected it to by doing so. It hasnt been suggested that the bank should have noticed 
anything untoward about the transaction, or suspected it was connected to a scam. So I 
dont think theres anything more Id have expected the bank to do here.
Other potential avenues
While I dont think Mrs Ls complaint against Santander should succeed, she may still have 
some chance of recovering a proportion of what she has paid if she makes a claim in the 
liquidation of R (assuming there is still time to do so). The liquidators of R reported this year 
that they had recovered £240,000 from one of the previous directors, so its possible there 
will be a dividend for creditors of the company. Mrs L may wish to contact the liquidators to 
ask about making a claim in the liquidation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman