DRN-2677608
The complaint
Mr S complains Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund two transactions he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
On 15 July 2020, Mr S received notifications on his mobile banking app alerting him to two 
payments totalling £432.55, that had been made to a merchant, who Ill refer to as A. The 
payments were made between 5.53pm and 5.56pm through a digital wallet service to which 
Mr S had added his Starling debit card details. A third payment to A was made and reversed 
 meaning it didnt debit Mr S account.
Upon receipt of notification Mr S immediately contacted Starling. He informed them he didnt 
recognise or make the payments to A. He confirmed his mobile phone (which was linked to 
his digital wallet) and physical Starling debit card were in his possession and nobody else 
had had access to them. He also specified that his mobile phone is passcode enabled and a 
separate passcode is needed to access the digital wallet service on his phone. 
Mr S requested a refund of the disputed payments and an explanation for how the 
transactions were made. He said the funds were taken from his account without his 
knowledge or consent and under the relevant regulations Starling is required to refund the 
unauthorised transactions. Ultimately, following its investigation, Starling concluded that 
there was no evidence to support fraudulent spending and it didnt agree to refunding the 
disputed transactions. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr S complained. He felt Starlings handling of his 
claim was poor; it had failed to satisfactorily answer his questions; and had left him in a 
worse financial position by not immediately refunding the disputed transactions. In addition 
to a refund of the disputed transactions, he asked Starling to make a compensatory award. 
Starling didnt uphold the complaint. It maintained its position that the disputed payments 
had been made through his digital wallet from a linked device (Mr S mobile phone), which 
hed confirmed was in his possession. Starling were satisfied this wasnt the case of his 
digital wallet being utilised on another device as access to his mobile banking app, 
passcodes and physical card  all of which Mr S says were in his possession and secure 
wouldve been required to make the payments on another device. Starling didnt agree to 
providing a refund as it couldnt be satisfied the disputed transactions were unauthorised. It 
also didnt agree having reviewed the service it had provided that a compensatory award 
was payable.     
Mr S didnt agree with Starlings decision. He brought his complaint to this Service.  
An investigator looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld, as the disputed 
transactions were made using Mr S digital wallet and the mobile phone in his possession  
both of which required passcodes  which he says no-one had knowledge of. In summary, 
on balance, he wasnt persuaded that the transactions had been made by an unknown third 
party and without Mr S consent. 
   
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view, he maintained while hed used his digital wallet 
for in-store purchases, he didnt know how to and hadnt ever used it to purchase items 
online. He also said hed been in touch with A who told him that a payment via digital 
payment wallet could only be used to pay for in-store or in-app purchases. Mr S said he 
hadnt downloaded As app on his phone. After obtaining transaction details from Starling, 
Mr S made his own enquiries with A. He has shared a transcript of his chat history with our 
investigator, where A advise that it cant find the payments or locate the orders. 
While his view remained unchanged the investigator shared this information with Starling 
and asked whether it was willing to reconsider its position. Starling didnt agree and 
maintained a refund wasnt due.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why below. 
Mr S is correct in his understanding that the relevant regulations in this case are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short, they state that a payment service 
provider (in this case, Starling) is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised 
transaction. But the regulations also say that Starling can hold Mr S liable for any disputed 
transactions, if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or otherwise 
authorised them.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence that the disputed transactions were authenticated. 
Ive seen evidence to show Mr S Starling card details  the long card number, the expiry 
date and the three-digit CVV number were registered to his digital wallet  which was used 
to make the payments.
But the regulations say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Starling to hold him liable. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr S made or consented to the payments being made. 
And from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to conclude that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
- Mr S told Starling his debit card details are not stored on any other devices. His 
mobile phone with access to his digital wallet and physical debit card were in his 
possession. No-one is authorised to use these, nor did they have access to them. He 
also confirmed his mobile phone is passcode enabled and a separate passcode is 
required to access his digital wallet. - I understand during the investigation process, Starling asked Mr S questions about 
his previously registered device. I can see why this raised doubts in Mr S mind about 
which device the payments were made from. Ive considered the technical data and 
am satisfied the transactions were made on the mobile phone that was in Mr S 
possession to which his digital wallet was linked. Further, Mr S says his old device 
was factory reset and all data erased when he switched devices in 2018. But even if 
he hadnt, I think its unlikely someone in possession of his details, with fraudulent 
intentions would wait nearly 18 months, and it still doesnt explain how they wouldve 
known his digital wallet passcode.     
- Starling has confirmed genuine payments made via Mr S digital wallet were also 
made using the same device as the disputed transactions. 
- I note Mr S has suggested that there might be a wider technical issue. But Ive not 
been provided with any persuasive evidence to support this theory. 
I acknowledge Mr S reported the matter promptly, without delay. I accept it can be said Mr S 
actions support the hypothesis of someone trying to protect their account from fraud. I also 
appreciate Mr S has gone to great lengths to obtain information from A to support his claim.  
But I need to look at and balance all the evidence presented to me and determine from that 
what I think most likely happened. And from what Ive seen Im unable to see a plausible 
explanation for how an unknown third party successfully gained access to Mr S mobile 
phone without him noticing and also how they were able to obtain passcodes for both his 
mobile phone and digital wallet to allow the payments to be successfully executed.   
So, based on the above, I dont think its unreasonable for Starling to conclude that its more 
likely than not that Mr S made or otherwise authorised the disputed transactions.
An ancillary aspect of Mr S complaint relates to the service Starling provided. I appreciate 
Mr S feels strongly about his claim and was unhappy he was being held liable, but this 
doesnt mean Starling provided him with poor service. Ultimately, in relation to the disputed 
transactions all Starling were required to do, is investigate the claim and explain their 
reasons for rejecting it. Ive reviewed the communication between Mr S and Starling. I think 
its representatives were polite and patient with Mr S and tried their best to answer his 
questions and queries. So, I dont agree that he received poor service. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my conclusion but overall, I dont believe it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Starling to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman