DRN-1802291
Complaint
Mr A has complained that Nationwide Building Society lost a cash deposit. 
What happened
On 15 December 2019, Mr A tried to deposit £2,300 at an ATM. He says he waited but didnt 
get a receipt, so he rang Nationwide. He says they told him the machine may have run out 
receipt paper.
The funds didnt arrive and Mr A chased Nationwide. They serviced the machine and it 
balanced correctly. There was no record of any successful £2,300 deposit or any deposits as 
large as that. They also brought in an engineer, who couldnt find a problem, nor any cash 
envelopes stuck in or around the machine. The machine had enough receipt paper. The 
electronic records said that Mr As transaction did not have an error, but had been reversed, 
which would mean the envelope was given back to him. Nationwide said there wasnt 
anything more they could do.
Our investigator looked into things independently. She found that based on the evidence, it 
was most likely that the machine had presented the cash envelope back to Mr A. She 
accepted it was possible Mr A may have accidentally walked away before taking his money 
back. But she didnt find there was anything more that Nationwide needed to do. 
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr A, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, 
and for much the same reasons.
Based on the technical and electronic evidence, it looks like Mr As deposit did not go 
through and was reversed. Thats why he didnt get a receipt  as the money was never 
deposited. According to the records, the machine didnt have any errors at the time of Mr As 
deposit, so his cash envelope wouldve come back out for him to take. The machine did not 
shut down, and other customers used it successfully just minutes after Mr As transaction.
When the branch serviced the machine the next morning, Mr As deposit wasnt there  
indeed, there were no deposits as large as his in the ATM. All the other deposits added up to 
around £800 total. The machine balanced properly, there was no excess money in it, and the 
engineer didnt find any stuck envelopes in or around the ATM.
Im afraid theres no evidence which shows that Mr As deposit went through  it looks like 
the transaction was reversed and Mr As cash envelope was presented for him to take back.
I agree with our investigator that its possible that Mr A didnt notice the ATM had given his 
money back, or that he forgot it and walked away by accident, or perhaps an opportunistic passer-by took the envelope while he was distracted. Unfortunately, there isnt a camera that 
would show what happened. But Ive not found that Nationwide did anything substantially 
wrong here, or that the money went missing due to any fault on Nationwides end. So while 
Mr A has my sympathy, I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Nationwide in this 
particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman