DRN-4464000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG Insurances decision to 
void their buildings insurance policy and in turn, decline a claim for subsidence. 
Any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents. As Mrs B has been leading on this 
complaint, Ive referred to her throughout my decision.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mrs B had a buildings insurance policy which was underwritten by UKI. She originally 
took the policy out through a broker in 2018. In August 2020, she renewed the policy 
directly with UKI  at which time she completed a statement of fact about her 
property.
Towards the end of 2021, Mrs B made a claim on her policy having noticed cracks in 
her property. UKIs surveyor attended and said:
 [] my preliminary report shows what appears to be a previous repair to the 
gable elevation at the junction of the main house which I would consider to 
likely be pre-inception. However, apart from this there was no evidence of 
previous repairs to the cracking to indicate this has been a long-standing 
issue. 
[] Looking at photographs there is little evidence of damage with the 
exception of the cracking at the junction of the main property and rear 
extension / outrigger and cracking in an internal alcove. It would appear they 
may have [been] evidence of some damage but the majority is recent in 
nature.
UKI said Mrs B had carelessly provided information by answering yes to the 
question Is the property maintained and in a good state of repair?  saying there 
were signs of subsidence damage at the time the policy was incepted. It voided Mrs 
Bs policy, refunded the premiums, and said it wouldnt cover the claim. 
It added that Mrs B had answered no to the questions Are there any trees within 
10m of the property? but its surveyor had noted the presence of several large 
deciduous trees towards the side and rear of the property which were within 10 
metres of the property. And had it known about the trees it wouldnt have offered the 
same level of cover. It said Mrs B also hadnt removed a horse chestnut tree as 
advised to do so by her surveyor at the time of buying her property in 1995.
Unhappy with UKIs decision, Mrs B brought a complaint to this Service. An 
investigator considered it and upheld the complaint. 
In summary she was satisfied it was reasonable for Mrs B to have answered yes to 
the question is the property maintained and in a good state of repair, and so, she 
didnt consider it fair for UKI to void the policy on this basis. 
She explained that whilst there were trees within 10 metres of the property, UKI 
hadnt shown why Mrs B wouldnt have been provided with a policy had she 
disclosed this  which it needed to do to show Mrs B had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So, she said UKIs decision to void the policy on this basis wasnt 
fair either. 
The Investigator recommended UKI pay £750 compensation to recognise the stress 
Mrs B experienced due to her home being uninsured after the policy was voided, the 
worry of seeing the damage worsen, and the delay caused by UKI unfairly voiding 
the policy and in turn, delaying the claim. 
UKI disagreed with the Investigators findings and so, the complaint has been passed 
to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
UKI has said Mrs B acted carelessly and failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she answered yes to the question Is the property maintained and 
in a good state of repair? and no to the question Are there any trees within 10m of the 
property?. It says the former is the principal reason for voiding the policy and declining the 
claim. But for completeness, I will address both as part of my decision. 
But before I do, UKI has since accepted Mrs B did remove the horse chestnut tree - in line 
with her pre-purchase surveyors advice  and so, its no longer relying on this to justify its 
position. And I dont need to consider it further.
The first issue to consider therefore, is whether Mrs B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering the question Is the property maintained and in a good 
state of repair? 
To decide this, Ive looked at UKIs surveyors report and subsequent comments, what Mrs B 
has said about her property including its previous history of subsidence and the remedial 
work in respect of this, the propertys condition when listed for sale in November 2020, 
together with the pre-purchase survey.Notably the surveyors report from when the property was inspected in November 2021 says 
that overall, the property is in reasonable condition  which doesnt support UKIs 
conclusion that the property hadnt been maintained and was in poor state of repair.  
In subsequent correspondence the surveyor explains there was no evidence to suggest 
repairs had been attempted to the crack damage he saw  which had there been, would 
have supported it was a long-term issue. And, in his opinion, the photos from the propertys 
sale listing show little evidence of damage with the exception of cracking at the junction of 
the main property and rear extension / outrigger and cracking in the internal alcove  which 
he said indicated the damage was recent. These findings in my opinion, dont paint a picture 
of a property which hasnt been maintained and is in a poor state of repair. Especially when I 
consider that UKI has itself said Mrs Bs home was aesthetically well maintained. 
Whilst the property listing shows crack damage in one room, I agree with the Investigator 
that this alone isnt evidence of the property having not been maintained. Especially when I 
consider that Mrs B had carried out the recommended remedial works relating to the 
subsidence (which was present at the time of purchasing the property), had felled the horse 
chestnut tree as advised, along with the surveyor and UKI respectively recognising the 
property was overall in a good condition and maintained. 
Ultimately, its for UKI to prove the information Mrs B provided was incorrect but based on 
what Ive seen Im not satisfied it has done that and so, Im more persuaded Mrs B took 
reasonable care and didnt carelessly misrepresent information. Meaning CIDRA doesnt 
apply, and I dont consider UKIs decision to void the policy and decline the claim based on a 
qualifying misrepresentation to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Did Mrs B misrepresent information regarding the distance of trees to her property?
It doesnt appear to be in dispute there are trees within 10 metres of Mrs Bs property  and 
so, its reasonable UKI has concluded Mrs B misrepresented information when answering 
no to the question Are there any trees within 10m of the property?. But UKI needs to 
show it would have done something differently had it known this information at the time of 
agreeing cover - and for the information Mrs B gave to be considered a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
UKI has told us that if Mrs B had answered yes she would have been required to fill in a 
subsidence questionnaire and this would have been considered along with its underwriting 
criteria. The questionnaire asks if there are any trees or shrubs within 20 feet of the building 
and if they are more than 10 feet tall. If they are, then details regarding the type of tree, its 
height and distance from the property are required.
UKI had also provided underwriting information which explains several factors would have 
been taken into consideration  such as the size of the tree, the distance from the property, 
the type of property, and the composition of the soil the property was built on. So, it seems 
its decision to provide cover would be dependent on the specific circumstances. 
And whilst UKI has told us it would not have offered cover had it known about the trees 
along with the property having suffered subsidence before, it hasnt shown how it reached 
this decision with specific reference to Mrs Bs trees  despite being asked to provide this 
several times. 
Given the information it has provided suggests it would have taken an individualised 
approach  it ought to be able to show why Mrs Bs trees would have led it to offer different 
cover, or no cover at all. UKI has said the trees were in 2-3 metres from the property and were evergreen and that 
this, along with the previous subsidence, means UKI wouldnt have provided cover  but 
given the underwriting information requires greater detail than this (with reference to the type 
of tree, expected growth, soil composition) when determining if cover is to provided, Im not 
persuaded, without first hand evidence from the underwriter about Mrs Bs particular trees, 
that UKI has sufficiently shown cover wouldnt have been offered. 
Because of this - there is no remedy under CIDRA for it to take any action. And as theres no 
qualifying misrepresentation, I dont consider UKIs decision to void the policy and in turn 
decline the claim to be fair, and so, Im upholding this complaint.
Compensation 
Understandably, being without insurance for her property has been a great worry for Mrs B 
and the difficulty in finding alternative cover has been a stress for her. This has no doubt 
been compounded by the fact shes been living in a property where the damage has 
worsened over time, and shes had the overriding concern of not knowing if and when her 
property will be repaired. 
As Im satisfied UKI unfairly deemed Mrs B to have made a qualifying misrepresentation, it in 
turn caused and avoidably delayed the handling of her subsidence claim and has 
unnecessarily prolonged the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. And so, it needs 
to recognise this by paying compensation  and I agree with our Investigator that £750 
reasonably reflects the difficulties Mrs B has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG 
Insurance to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Bs policy from the time it was cancelled so continuous cover 
remains in place. Mr and Mrs B will be required to pay the premiums for the time 
they would have been covered had the policy not been voided.
Consider the subsidence claim under the policy.
Pay £750 compensation. UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs B and Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement 
to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman