DRN-3794548
The complaint
Mr B complains that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) have overcharged him for the 
work theyve carried out on his claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).  
What happened
Mr B instructed WFAC to handle a claim about mis-sold PPI against Lender E. The claim 
reached a successful outcome and Mr B was awarded £519.05  but the amount he 
received after tax had been deducted was £467.09. WFAC then sent their invoice for £218. 
Mr B says he received a call from WFAC for payment and it was agreed he could pay four 
instalments of £36.66 and he says these were paid. Mr B says he then received a letter from 
WFAC asking for an outstanding amount of £108.02 to be paid. Mr B says he ignored this as 
he believed no further payments were due. WFAC then instructed a debt collector who 
contacted Mr B for the outstanding payment. Mr B says he then paid the sum of £282 to stop 
any further action but he complained to WFAC about being overcharged. 
WFAC responded and explained their fee was £218 and Mr B called them to pay the first 
instalment of £36.66. And their system notes showed the agent set up a payment plan for 
five further payments to be made. WFAC said, including the payment made over the phone, 
three payments had been made which meant there were three payments outstanding. 
WFAC said they attempted to contact Mr B but there was no answer. WFAC said they then 
issued an invoice for the outstanding amount of £108.02. WFAC explained Mr B was 
therefore aware there was an outstanding amount owed and, because this wasnt paid, they 
referred the matter to a debt collector.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. He thought WFAC had given Mr B incorrect 
information about the amount hed paid so Mr B shouldnt have been charged the court and 
legal representative fees. So, our investigator recommended WFAC deduct this from the 
amount which was charged by the debt collector and refund the difference between what the 
debt collector shouldve charged and what Mr B paid, together with 8% simple interest. 
WFAC agreed but Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision 
Theres no dispute between the parties that WFAC carried out work on Mr Bs PPI claim and 
that a fee was due for their service. Lender E set out a breakdown of the compensation and 
this shows total redress of £519.05 had been calculated but, after tax had been deducted, 
the sum of £467.09 was paid to Mr B. I understand Mr B is concerned WFAC calculated their 
fee based on the total redress and not the compensation he actually received. 
The Engagement Letter and terms and conditions signed by Mr B say WFAC will charge 
35% plus VAT of any compensation awarded. The terms and conditions describe 
compensation as any financial benefit that is awarded to you (prior to the deduction of 
any tax) So, while I do acknowledge Mr B remains concerned about WFAC calculating their 
fee based on the total redress, I cant say theyve acted unfairly here as the terms and 
conditions allow them to work out their fee by applying the 35% plus VAT fee to the total 
redress and not the actual amount received by Mr B following the tax deduction. I note Mr B 
says he was never made aware of WFACs charges, but I can see the Engagement Letter 
sets out the charges and this has been signed by Mr B.  
Theres a further dispute between the parties and this relates to what Mr B was told about 
the fee and how much has been paid. Mr B says, during a call with an agent, he was told he 
only needed to make four payments in instalments  which he says he paid. WFAC say the 
agents notes on their system show they took one payment and a payment plan for five 
further payments was set up. WFAC say this was made up of five payments of £36.66 
followed by one payment of £34.70. I can see WFAC emailed Mr B in August 2021 and 
attached a payment slip showing the outstanding balance after you paid 4 instalments of 
£36.66 towards your fee. So, this supports Mr Bs account of events that hed paid four 
instalments. WFAC say this was an error and Mr B had only paid three instalments which 
meant there was a balance of £108.02 outstanding. So, Ive carefully considered the 
information I have to decide what I think is more likely than not the case here. 
WFAC say they no longer hold the recording for the phone call Mr B had with the agent. 
WFAC say their system notes show one payment of £36.66 was taken and a payment plan 
set up for five further instalments. I do acknowledge Mr Bs points, but Im not persuaded he 
was told he only needed to pay four instalments of £36.66 to satisfy WFACs fee. I say this 
because four instalments amount to £146.64. But the invoice WFAC sent to Mr B shows 
their fee is £218  and the £218 fee represents 35% plus VAT of the compensation awarded 
to Mr B, so Im persuaded this is the fee owed. So, the combined payment of £146.64 
wouldnt cover the fee and would leave an outstanding balance. I agree WFAC have given 
incorrect information in their email to Mr B as they say four instalments have been paid, but 
the payment advice attached to the email shows an outstanding balance of £108.02. That 
being the case, this would mean Mr B had only paid three instalments of £36.66 and not 
four. And, Im persuaded this is the correct position as WFACs system notes support this. 
Taking this into account, that means there was an outstanding balance of £108.02 owed at 
the point WFAC referred the matter to a debt collector. The information shows further 
charges accrued following referral to the debt collector and the total outstanding costs at this 
point were £351.38  and Mr B then paid £282. The further charges relate to a debt collector 
fee, interest on the outstanding balance, a court fee and a legal representative fee. I can see 
WFAC have agreed to waive the court fee and legal representative fee, which represents a 
combined fee of £85. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This means the 
debt collectors charges have been reduced down to £266.38. And, given Mr B has paid 
£282, this means theres an overpayment of £15.62  and I can see WFAC have agreed to 
refund this. 
I note Mr B says he received £467.09 in compensation, but he has had to pay total fees of 
£428.64. I understand why Mr B has been left frustrated, but my explanation above sets out 
why Im not persuaded Mr B paid WFAC four instalments. I believe Mr B paid three 
instalments which gives a total figure of £109.98  and combined with the £282 he paid,     
Mr B paid a total of £391.98. I accept this still makes up a significant proportion of the 
compensation received by Mr B, but this is down to the way in which WFAC have calculated 
their fee and the additional charges incurred following their referral to a debt collector. Putting things right
Ive taken the view that its fair and reasonable for WFAC to waive the court fee and legal 
representative fee which means the debt collectors charge shouldve been £266.38. Mr B 
has paid £282 which is an overpayment of £15.62. So, WFAC should refund £15.62 to Mr B 
together with 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
WFAC should provide Mr B with a certificate showing any taxation deducted. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. We Fight Any Claim Limited must take the 
steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman