DRN-3878157
The complaint
Ms H complains about the adverse reports Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclays) made to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Barclays have reported one missed payment to Ms Hs credit file for March 2022 (it appears 
on her credit file as April 2022). Its that report that Ms H disputes.
Barclays offered to set up a payment plan for Ms H when she ran into some trouble repaying 
her Barclaycard. They sent a letter to Ms H in early January 2022 to explain what would be 
necessary in order for the plan to start. The letter said:
While we're waiting for the two qualifying payments, we'll continue to let the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) know about any outstanding arrears you have on your account. 
This will affect your credit file, but once your repayment plan is up and running, we'll update 
the CRAs. This will still affect your credit file, but it will show that you're working with us to 
repay what you owe.
So, whilst the qualifying payments were being made there was no plan in place and as the 
qualifying payments were less than the minimum due on the card Barclays would need to 
report them to the credit reference agencies.
In January 2022 Ms H made the first £50 qualifying payment but she also made a payment 
of £130 towards her card. That meant shed paid more than the minimum payment for that 
month and no credit marker needed to be reported.
In February 2022 Ms H made her final £50 qualifying payment but as the payment was for 
less than the minimum due and as Ms H wasnt, at that time, in a formal repayment plan, 
that payment needed to be reported to the credit reference agencies. Barclays did that in 
March 2022.
Ms H says she was told thered be no impact on her credit file, but unfortunately Barclays 
havent been able to provide a recording of the call they had with Ms H when she says she 
was given that information. The letters that Barclays sent subsequently do explain the 
situation and Im persuaded that they gave Ms H enough information for her to realise the 
impact on her credit file.
There were problems thereafter as Barclays didnt recognise the qualifying payments had 
been made. A new payment needed to be agreed and new qualifying payments made. 
Barclays have removed any missed payment markers in respect of this new arrangement 
and have paid Ms H £50 to compensate her for the inconvenience they have caused. I think 
thats fair in the circumstances and overall, whilst I understand Ms H was purely trying to 
ensure she kept on top of her finances, I cant say Barclays have been unreasonable when 
reporting the missed payment. They have an obligation to report accurate information and 
they had explained to Ms H that they would continue to let the credit reference agencies 
know about any arrears whilst she was qualifying for the plan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman