DRN-1493366
The complaint
Ms A complains about the way she was treated by a member of branch staff when she made 
a visit to Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). She feels the cause was racial prejudice.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms A and Lloyds, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
When Ms A visited the branch she said she took a seat in the personal banking waiting area. 
She waited for about 10 minutes, but was not acknowledged or seen to by any staff member. 
In particular she feels that one member of staff (D) who was dealing with another customer 
at the time, did not ask her what help she needed. And when another customer came in, D 
broke off from that customer to see to him. Ms A was unhappy about that and raised it with a 
staff member whom she said could offer no reasonable explanation. When D did speak to 
Ms A she felt she had been abrupt and had failed to apologise for her behaviour.
Ms A raised a complaint with Lloyds who accepted in part that they had been at fault in not 
seeing to her when she first went into the branch, and they paid her £100 in compensation. 
However they rejected her complaint that they had treated her badly or discriminated against 
her on the grounds of race. They also did not accept that her complaint ought to have been 
dealt with outside of the branch due to it being a complaint about a branch staff member.
Ms A was unhappy with Lloydss final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that there 
was any evidence that Lloyds had discriminated against Ms A, and explained why this 
service couldnt look into how Lloyds dealt with the complaint. She also considered that the 
sum paid in recompense for the poor service Ms A received was fair and reasonable.
Ms A didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Lloyds has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
It is unfortunate that there is no longer any CCTV evidence for me to view, but I have to 
make my assessment based on the available evidence. Ive read the statements from the 
branch staff, and they satisfy me that what has happened here, in all probability, is that Ms A 
was simply overlooked by the staff. That is very unfortunate and I can very well understand 
how that would have made Ms A feels, especially as another customer came in and was 
served before her. But there is no evidence that this was motivated by race, and the most 
likely explanation is that it was human error, on what was a busy day in the branch.
I can understand Ms A's point when she says she feels her complaint ought to have been 
investigated outside the branch, and I can again understand why she feels that would have 
been better. But as our investigator has said I cannot deal with that aspect of her complaint 
as it is outside of my remit.
Lloyds has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should compensate 
Ms A. And so it paid Ms A £100. As Ms A doesnt believe this is sufficient to put matters 
right, Ive given this some further thought and in so doing Ive considered the level of awards 
this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into account, in 
the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on Ms A.
In some complaints, the problems a customer can lead to the customer being caused some 
trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could do to 
put matters right. Any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused needs to be 
balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, 
businesses and organisations.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what Lloyds paid is fair and reasonable. And I think 
it is enough to put matters right. So, although Ms A will probably be disappointed with my 
decision, and whilst Lloyds has indeed made an error, I cant say Lloyds has subsequently 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Lloyds has already paid £100 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require Lloyds to do anything else. For the reasons set out above 
I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman