DRN-3624206
The complaint
The estate of Ms C complains that ReAssure Limited provided it with incorrect information 
about whether a life assurance policy would pay out. The estate also complains that Ms C 
paid into the policy for 14 years but it didnt pay out anything in return.
What happened
Ms C took out a Well Woman policy in 2007. This policy provided life assurance and other 
benefits in the case that Ms C was diagnosed with a specific illness. ReAssure has 
described it as a female cancer policy.
Ms C sadly passed away in January 2022. Mr C, as representative of her estate, spoke to 
ReAssure to discuss the policy and whether it would pay out. He was told initially that the 
estate would receive money for when Ms C was in hospital, as well as a refund of premiums 
paid under the Return of Premium benefit. Mr C was later told that this was incorrect 
information, and that no payment is due as Ms C didnt pass away from a female cancer.
ReAssure apologised to the representative of the estate and paid him £350 for the trouble 
and upset it caused him. It explained that the policy terms show that no payment was due to 
the estate.
Our Investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that just because wrong 
information was given, we cant ask ReAssure to act in line with the wrong information. He 
said the claim had been declined in line with the policy terms. The Investigator said it was up 
to the representative of the estate to decide whether to accept the compensation.
The representative of the estate didnt feel the outcome was fair. He asked for an 
Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to express my sincere condolences to Mr C for the sad passing of his mother. I 
know that he will be disappointed to hear that Im not upholding this complaint, but I hope the 
following helps to explain why that is.
Ms Cs policy
Ms C took out a policy which specifically covered female cancers. This isnt in dispute. What 
that means is that the policy only pays out for claims relating to female cancers, including the 
benefits for hospital stays. As Ms C didnt pass away from any type of cancer, no payment is 
due under the policy.
I can also see that Ms Cs policy had a benefit called Return of Premium. This is where the 
return of premiums would be paid out to the estate if the policy had been in place for a set 
amount of time. Ive seen the screenshots relating to Ms Cs policy. It had to be in place for 
20 years for this benefit to apply. However, as Ms C took the policy in 2007, it hadnt been in 
place long enough for her estate to receive this benefit.
Looking at the evidence I have relating to the policy, I cant say ReAssure has done anything 
wrong in not paying out for any claim. There wasnt anything due to Ms Cs estate under the 
policy. I appreciate that Ms C had paid into the policy for a number of years, but the policy 
only covered specific scenarios and they didnt apply here.
Incorrect information
Its clear to me that ReAssure hasnt given Mr C correct information when hes asked about 
the policy or tried to make a claim. There has been misinformation about how the policy 
works, what it would pay out as well as incorrect information about the Return of Premium 
benefit expiry date. Overall, I can see why Mr C, as representative of the estate, is unhappy.
ReAssure sent Mr C a cheque for £350 to recognise the impact its errors had made on him. 
The rules under which this service operates means I can only award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience caused to eligible complainants. In this case, the complainant is 
the estate of the late Ms C. The estate isnt an individual that can suffer distress, so I cant 
award it compensation for that.
Its clear that Mr C, as representative of the estate has been impacted by these errors. But he 
isnt the eligible complainant here. So Im unable to comment on the impact ReAssures 
mistakes has had on him. It is for Mr C, as representative of the estate to decide if he wants 
to accept ReAssures compensation. But, Im unable to make any award to him for this as he 
isnt the eligible complainant and the distress here was suffered by him personally.
To summarise, whilst its disappointing that ReAssure provided the representative of the 
estate with incorrect information, it hasnt acted unreasonably in not paying a claim under the 
late Ms Cs policy. And any distress caused by ReAssure was experienced by the 
representative personally. As hes not the eligible complainant here, I cant award any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms C 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman