DRN-4183807
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has cancelled a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy that covered them for unemployment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were written to on 12 April 2022, informing them that the policy would be 
cancelled on 15 August 2022.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Aviva had made a business decision to 
withdraw this policy and had provided Mr and Mrs D with sufficient notice of the cancellation, 
in line with the policy terms. She also concluded that Aviva was not required to refund the 
premiums.
Mr and Mrs D disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products and 
this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of an insurer in 
deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. I'm only looking at whether Aviva acted 
fairly in the way that it cancelled the policy.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D say they were told by the seller that the policy would continue 
through to their retirement. But it wasnt Aviva that sold them the policy. And Aviva gave four 
months notice that the cover would be ending, which was more than the 90 days required 
under the terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand that Mr and Mrs D would like the PPI to be reinstated. But as Ive said, Aviva is 
within its rights to withdraw the policy. And as it has made a decision to withdraw all such 
policies, not just theirs, Im unable to conclude that it has treated them unfairly. I note that, in 
the cancellation notification, they were signposted to a website where they might be able to 
get impartial information about alternative cover. And they were given enough notice to set 
up alternative unemployment cover before the policy came to an end.
Mr and Mrs D set up the policy in 2009 and did so because they wanted to secure 
themselves and their family financially if and when necessary. But they were covered by the 
policy during all of the time they were paying the premiums, so they would have been able to 
claim on it then if theyd needed to. As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for Aviva to refund 
the premiums. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D are upset that the policy has been cancelled as they feel that 
cover is more important as they get older. However, looking at Avivas actions, I consider 
that it acted fairly, in line with the policy terms and conditions, to cancel the policy with the 
appropriate amount of notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman