DRN-2022197
 
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) hasnt offered 
her enough for her car under her motor insurance policy after it was stolen. She has 
also complained about the service she received while her claim was being processed.
What happened
In my provisional decision sent 19 June 2020 I explained that I didnt think this complaint 
should be upheld. I said:
I have considered both parts of Mrs Ks complaint below.
car valuation
Mrs Ks policy covered her for the market value of her car. It states:
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or items 
claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved to a place of 
storage as soon as possible.
Admiral based its valuation on motor trade guides.
Its not the role of our service to provide an exact valuation for a car. Instead we look at the 
trade guides to see if the insurer has given a fair and reasonable valuation thats in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. We find the guides persuasive as theyre based on 
nationwide research of sales prices. We do consider other information, such as adverts,but 
generally find the guides more persuasive as they take account of negotiation from 
advertised prices. The guides also take account of the cars mileage and optional extras.
Our investigator consulted the available trade guides which gave the following valuations 
for Mrs Ks car; Glasses £14,450, CAP £13,147 and Cazana £16,279.
Admiral adjusted the mileage it used to reach its valuation. It used an average of 
the previous years mileage recorded in the MOT history to predict the miles the car would 
likely have travelled when it was stolen. This increased the mileage from 78471 which 
was recorded on the MOT nine months before the car was stolen to 86971 miles. I think this 
is fair as it was based on an average of the miles the car had travelled in previous years.
When I consulted the trade guides with the updated mileage the produced they 
following valuations:
Glasses £13,610, Cap £12,700 and Cazana £13,848
The mileage has made a difference to each of the valuations, and I think a mistake 
may have been made previously when the valuation from Cazana was obtained as I 
wouldnt expect the change in mileage to result in such a difference in the valuation.I appreciate Mrs K has gone to the effort of doing her own research, including finding 
similar vehicles available that are being marketed at a higher price, and asking a retailer for 
an opinion of what her car was worth when it was stolen. But Im more persuaded by the 
value given by the guides as theyre based on nationwide research and take account 
of negotiation.
I acknowledge Mrs Ks car had been upgraded in several areas and these upgrades 
would have come with a premium at the time they were made, but upgrades like this 
often don't increase the resale value later on, and I dont think they would cause the value of 
the car to be higher than the guide valuations several years later when the car was stolen.
As the offer made by Admiral is inline with the amounts obtained by the trade guides I think 
it is fair and reasonable.
service received
Mrs K didnt receive the service she should have expected from Admiral when she made 
her claim. Admiral made requests from Mrs K that she had already fulfilled which would 
have been frustrating and caused a delay.
But Admiral has accepted it provided a poor service and has compensated Mrs K to 
the amount of £120. This offer is inline with what I would have suggested had Admiral not 
paid Mrs K any compensation. So I think the offer made by Admiral is fair, and I dont 
think Admiral should have to pay anything further in relation to the service it provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But as neither side responded with 
anything further for me to consider I see no reason to come to a different decision to that 
explained above.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman