DRN-1719586
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account (SAVA) by Lloyds Bank 
PLC (Lloyds). 
What happened
Mr M held a bank account with Lloyds from June 2006. His first account did not have a fee.
He took out the SAVA in October 2008 which incurred a monthly fee of £7.95.
Mr M says the SAVA was mis-sold because it was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Ms complaint and thought that it wasnt mis-sold. Mr M 
disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says the SAVA was mis-sold. Although I know this will be disappointing for Mr M, in my 
view, I dont agree, and Ill explain why.
Mr M was aware he could have an account with no fee as hed had one without a fee for a 
considerable time before he took out the SAVA. I also think its more likely than not that Mr 
M wouldve been aware that fee free accounts were available from other banks and financial 
institutions as these were widely advertised. So, if Lloyds had told Mr M that he had to pay a 
fee for a bank account, I think he would have queried this, and gone elsewhere if keeping a 
fee free account was important to him.
So, I think Mr M chose to take out the SAVA based on Lloyds advice and information.
Lloyds advised Mr M to take out the SAVA. So, Lloyds needed to provide Mr M with enough 
information about the SAVA to make an informed choice. And in recommending the SAVA, it 
also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ms 
circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including AA breakdown cover, European travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card protection. 
Lloyds has provided a record which shows it discussed the SAVA with Mr M and noted that 
he was interested in the holiday insurance, the car breakdown service and the mobile phone 
insurance.
Lloyds has also provided a copy of a document Mr M signed during the sale in which he 
acknowledges that he has received the summary information about the account. 
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr M had a reasonable awareness of what he was 
buying. And I think the SAVA would have been suitable for him and of interest. I say this 
because he had a car, he travelled regularly abroad, and he had a mobile phone.
Lloyds records show that he used the car breakdown service twice and enquired about the 
travel insurance on two occasions.
Mr M says that the holiday insurance wasnt right for him as he had a pre-existing medical 
condition. I agree with Mr M that his pre-existing medical condition wasnt covered by the 
travel insurance. I cant see any record that he raised this with Lloyds at the time of the sale, 
but I think its more likely than not that if hed raised this then or later Lloyds wouldve have 
offered to cover him fully for a competitive additional premium. So, in my view the travel 
insurance that came with the SAVA did provide valuable cover.
Mr M says that he would rather have had a worldwide travel insurance policy and home start 
with his car breakdown service. But it was for him to decide if he wanted to vary the account 
benefits he was getting. He could have closed or upgraded his SAVA at any time, but he 
didnt until many years later.
So, in my view Mr M chose to take out the SAVA. Lloyds advice to him to take out the SAVA 
was not unsuitable, and he could have chosen at any time later whether to continue with it. 
And there was no information that he didnt receive that would likely have put him off taking 
the SAVA. 
So, I dont think Mr M lost out by taking out the SAVA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman