DRN-3488485
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a Black 
packaged bank account in April 2013. Mrs L has explained that she was told that it was a 
privilege to take out the account and she was not made aware of the cost of the account.
What happened
This complaint originally encompassed two separate accounts that Mrs L held. One of our 
ombudsmen made a decision that we could not look at one of the accounts. Therefore, this 
decision will only be looking at the account taken out in April 2013. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this sale and they didnt think that NatWest had mis-sold 
the Black account. Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
I also note that NatWest refunded some of the fees for the Black account as at the time    
Mrs L held two Black accounts at the same time. Mrs L does not seem to be unhappy with 
the resolution for this aspect of her complaint, so we have not addressed it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint. Having looked at all 
the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the packaged account. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs L was given a clear choice in taking the Black 
account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened, having weighed up what both 
parties have been able to provide me with. 
Mrs L had held a free account with NatWest prior to taking out the Black account. So I think 
that she wouldve been aware that NatWest generally offered free accounts and that they 
were an option for her, when the Black account was sold to her. 
Mrs L has said that she thought that she had to take out the account as it was a privilege to 
be offered it. I can see that at the time, the Black account was not offered to all customers as 
it had certain eligibility criteria or was only offered to account holders at NatWests discretion. 
So if Mrs L was told she was being offered something that not all customers were able to 
have, I cant see that she what she was told was incorrect or misleading. Also being offered 
an account that is not available to all customers is not the same as being told that it was 
compulsory. So I think that Mrs L wouldve been aware that she did not have to have the 
account, if she did not want it.
One of the benefits of the account at the time was preferential rates on borrowing, such as 
personal loans and overdraft facilities. I can see that Mrs L obtained a £3,000 overdraft at 
the time the account was taken out. So this may have been a reason she agreed to the 
account. 
I also can see that when Mrs L held the same account under a different account number, 
she made a claim on the travel insurance. This suggests that travel insurance may have 
been a benefit that she was interested in and wanted to continue to have. 
Mrs L has explained that most of the benefits of the account were provided by her employer, 
but she has also mentioned that she retired in 2001 - which is prior to when this account was 
taken out. So I dont think that this necessarily meant she did not need the benefits that 
came with the Black account. 
So overall, albeit on balance, I think that Mrs L agreed to the account knowing that she did 
not have to, and that she most likely agreed to it because she was interested in the benefits 
that this account came with.
This sale was not carried out on an advised basis, so NatWest did not have to ensure the 
account was right for Mrs L at the time it was sold to her. That said, it did need to give Mrs L 
enough information about the account so she could decide this for herself. I believe the main 
benefits wouldve been highlighted to her to make the account seem attractive. I note that 
Mrs L said that she was not told about the cost of the account, but given that the documents 
from when it was sold to Mrs L as well as the documents that were sent out after the sale 
highlighted the cost of the account, I think its likely that the cost of the account was 
mentioned during the sale. I think this because if Mrs L didnt know how much the account 
would cost, I think its likely that Mrs L wouldve queried this with NatWest earlier, had it not 
been mentioned or made clear during the sale.
I also cant else see anything specific that Mrs L was not told about that wouldve changed 
her decision to agree to the account. So overall there is not enough for me to say that this 
account was sold incorrectly.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mrs L and I understand that, with hindsight, 
she may now feel that she has paid a lot of money over the years for this account and has 
not derived much benefit from holding it. But just because Mrs L may now feel that it has 
been poor value for money does not mean that the account was sold incorrectly in the first 
place.
So while I want to reassure Mrs L that I have carefully looked at all the information provided 
and thought about everything that has been said, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the 
Black account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman