DRN-3710852
The complaint
Mr P complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Company Limited (Lloyds), declining 
a claim under his home insurance policy for theft of jewellery when his property was burgled. 
Lloyds use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Lloyds 
includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr P purchased a new property in addition to his main property, with the 
intention of moving into the new property and renting out the main property. With carrying 
out some refurbishment work at the new property, he didnt plan to move to the new property 
until June 2022. A few days before his planned move, Mr P visited the new property and left 
some personal belongings (jewellery and some cash) temporarily in wardrobes at the 
property before going on to a family meal. The property was locked and secured when he 
left for the meal.
 
Unfortunately, while he was away from the property it was burgled and the jewellery was 
taken. He reported the burglary to the police. He also reported the burglary to Lloyds and 
made a claim for the theft under the personal possessions away from the home section of 
his policy.
Lloyds initially indicated they would accept the claim, but then subsequently declined it. They 
referred to the Personal belongings away from the home section of the policy, specifically 
the policy terms and conditions that required personal belongings be with the policyholder 
and in their control at the time they were lost. They also said the jewellery was left (in the 
new property) on a permanent basis (not a temporary basis). This also meant the theft 
wasnt covered under the policy terms and conditions.
Unhappy at the decline of his claim, Mr P complained to Lloyds. In their final response they 
upheld part of the complaint, relating to initially indicating theyd accept the claim (but then 
declining it). They apologised and awarded £250 in respect of the loss of expectation. But 
they confirmed their decision to decline the claim for the theft of the jewellery (under the 
contents away from the home section of the policy) as the jewellery wasnt in the new 
property temporarily (it wasnt going to be returned to the main property). 
They also confirmed the theft wouldnt be covered under the personal belongings section of 
the policy as the jewellery wasnt temporarily taken away from the main property (it was 
going to be kept permanently at the new property) Also, the jewellery wasnt kept with Mr P 
(or under his control) at the time it was stolen. Lloyds also said the jewellery wouldnt be 
covered under the contents when moving home section of the policy, as it wasnt being 
moved (to the new property) by a professional removal firm. In addition, Lloyds said cover for 
contents at the new property would only start from the date Mr P moved in (which was five 
days after the date of the burglary). 
Mr P then complained to this service. He said the theft of the jewellery had meant a financial 
loss of about £12,000 and Lloyds decline of the claim had left him shattered. He wanted 
Lloyds to accept the claim and pay for the loss of the stolen jewellery.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Lloyds hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. She thought the policy stated the home insured under it was the main 
property (not the new property) and it was the property Mr P was living in at the time of the 
theft. She also agreed it was reasonable for Lloyds to say the jewellery wasnt in the new 
property on a temporary basis and to say the jewellery wasnt in Mr Ps control or custody 
when it was stolen. She also thought it reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim under the 
contents when moving home section of the policy. She also thought Lloyds offer of £250 
compensation for loss of expectation was fair.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He thought the theft of the jewellery should be covered under the contents 
temporarily removed from the home section of the policy, as the new property was a 
temporary home at the time of the theft (before becoming the main, permanent home a few 
days later). And the jewellery was kept temporarily in the new property, as personal 
belongings. He also thought the policy didnt say it wouldnt cover items if the personal 
belongings are kept in a temporary residence thats going to become your permanent 
residence later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate Mr Ps new property being burgled shortly before he was due 
to move in will have been a distressing experience for him, together with the loss of the 
jewellery. My role here is to decide whether Lloyds has acted fairly towards Mr P.
The main element of Mr Ps complaint is that Lloyds unfairly declined his claim for the theft of 
his jewellery. He says the theft should be covered under the contents temporarily removed 
from the home section of the policy (as the new property was a temporary home at the time 
of the theft, before becoming his main, permanent home a few days later). He also says the 
jewellery was being kept temporarily in the new property (as personal belongings). In this 
respect he also says the policy didnt say it wouldnt cover the loss in that situation.
For their part, Lloyds set out several grounds for declining the claim. Firstly, under the 
contents away from the home section of the policy, they say the jewellery wasnt in the new 
property temporarily (it wasnt going to be returned to the main property). Secondly, they say 
the theft wouldnt be covered under the personal belongings section of the policy as the 
jewellery wasnt temporarily taken away from the main property (it was going to be kept 
permanently at the new property). Also, the jewellery wasnt with Mr P (or under his control) 
when it was stolen. Thirdly, the jewellery wouldnt be covered under the contents when 
moving home section of the policy, as it wasnt being moved (to the new property) by a 
professional removal firm. In addition, Lloyds said cover for contents at the new property 
would only start from the date Mr P moved in (five days after the date of the burglary). 
Ive considered each of these grounds (and Mr Ps views) in turn.
On the first ground, under the contents away from the home section, Ive looked at what the 
policy terms and conditions say. Under the Contents away from your home section of the 
policy, it states:Your contents will only be covered whilst they are temporarily away from your 
home within the British Isles.
When we say temporarily we mean for a short time. For example, in a hotel, or at a 
relatives home.
It does not mean when kept away from your home most of the time. For example, in 
storage.
Well also pay claims if somebody steals or tries to steal your contents from:
An occupied private home or where you or your family work or are 
living temporarily. For example, if you go away for a weekend and stay 
at a hotel.
A bank or safety deposit box. Well also pay claims if theyre stolen 
whilst you, your family or your domestic staff are taking them to or 
from the bank or safety deposit box.
Looking at this policy term, I dont think the circumstances of the theft of the jewellery fall 
within its meaning. I say that because its clear the jewellery was being kept in the new 
property in advance (in anticipation) of Mr P moving into it and becoming his main home. It 
wasnt being kept temporarily at the new property  one of Mr Ps points  and there was no 
intention for it to be returned to the main home before Mr P moved into the new property. 
Nor was the new property (at the time of the theft) an occupied private home or where Mr P 
was working or living temporarily. So, Ive concluded Lloyds acted reasonably in saying the 
theft of the jewellery wouldnt be covered under this section of the policy.
On the second ground, the personal belongings section of the policy, the policy includes a 
section Personal belongings away from the home cover which states cover is for:
- Your personal belongings if they are lost, stolen or accidentally damaged when you 
or your family temporarily take them away from your home.
When we say temporarily we mean for a short time. For example, on a day trip, or a 
holiday. It does not mean when kept away from your home most of the time. For 
example, in your holiday home, your caravan or in storage.in a hotel, or at a relatives 
home.
It does not mean when kept away from your home most of the time. For example, in 
storage.
Well pay claims:
If you or your family have your things with you and in your control at the time 
theyre lost, stolen or damaged. Youll still be covered if theyre left with hotel 
security. Youll also be covered if theyre put in a safety deposit box, safe or 
similar storage, all of which must be permanently fixed and locked.
Looking at these policy terms, I dont think they apply to the circumstances of the theft. I 
dont think the jewellery was being temporarily taken away from the [main] home, as the 
intention was that they would be kept at the new property. Nor was the jewellery with Mr P or 
in his control  given it was left unattended in the property when Mr P went out for a meal.
 
Ive also considered Mr Ps point that the policy didnt say it wouldnt cover items if the 
personal belongings are kept in a temporary residence thats going to become your permanent residence later. But I dont agree. Thinking about the circumstances of what 
happened I dont think the jewellery could be said to be in a temporary residence thats 
going to become your permanent residence later. Thats because the new property wasnt a 
temporary residence before becoming Mr Ps new, permanent residence. He was 
refurbishing it in advance of moving into it as his new, permanent residence. He was 
resident in his old property up to the point he planned to move into the new property (five 
days after the theft).
Based on this, I think Lloyds acted fairly in declining the claim under this section of the 
policy.
On the third ground, that the jewellery wouldnt be covered under the contents when moving 
home section of the policy, the policy terms and conditions include the following:
20. Moving home:
Well pay claims where your contents are stolen or damagedwhilst moving home. 
Your contents must be moved within the United Kingdom by a professional removal 
firm.
Looking at the circumstances of the theft, while Mr P was in the process of moving home (to 
live in his new property, the jewellery wasnt being moved (or had been moved) by a 
professional firm. So, Ive concluded Lloyds acted fairly in declining to cover the theft under 
this section of the policy. 
On the point about the loss of expectation when Lloyds declined the claim after initially 
indicating theyd accept it, I think that was unfortunate. But Lloyds have acknowledged the 
loss of expectation and I think £250 is fair compensation.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded Lloyds acted fairly in declining Mr Ps claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman