The complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited gave him misleading information about how long he had 
to make a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr P says he was told by MBNA he had 12 months to make a balance transfer. He says he 
spoke to it in August 2019 but when he decided to take advantage of the offer he was told it 
had expired. Mr P says he had to borrow £450 from a friend which he had to repay the 
following month which has caused financial difficulties. He would like MBNA to pay him the 
money he was forced to borrow.
MBNA says Mr P asked its advisor how long he had to make the balance transfer but 
accepts its advisor didn't answer that question. It accepts that was a mistake and has paid 
£100 compensation and £12 for Mr P's call costs. MBNA says it can't reinstate an expired 
offer and says there was no guarantee Mr P would have been accepted for the balance 
transfer offer.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought MBNA had dealt fairly with it 
and that the compensation was fair and reasonable. The investigator didn't think the balance 
transfer application was guaranteed to be successful and that Mr P would have still have 
owed the money.
Mr P doesn't accept that view and questions how many balance transfer offers 
MBNA refuses and says he was later accepted for a balance transfer offer. He says 
MBNA don't have the right to mislead customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that MBNA has dealt fairly with this complaint.
There is no dispute here that MBNA ought to have answered Mr P's question about how 
long the balance transfer offer was available for. I have not been told the answer to that 
question by MBNA and Mr P hasn't told me what he would have done differently if he had 
been given the correct answer. And I can see it was some months later that he applied for 
the balance transfer. 
The key issue is the level of compensation and if MBNA ought to pay for Mr P's borrowing of 
£450. I have no doubt Mr P was caused inconvenience by MBNA's actions in spending time 
applying for an offer that had expired and in spending some time speaking to MBNA about 
DRN-1844853what had taken place. But I'm also satisfied that MBNA has fairly apologised for what took 
place and has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I think that 
offer fairly reflects the level of its mistake and the impact its actions had on Mr P. 
I'm satisfied that Mr P would have owed the £450 regardless of what took place, and so I 
can't fairly order MBNA to repay him that money in those circumstances. The only difference 
that I can see, is that Mr P was required to pay the money it seems in one payment rather 
than over a period of time if the balance transfer had been successful. But that money would 
have still have been required to be repaid. I appreciate that by making the payment in one, 
as Mr P has told us he did, then that had a greater impact on his finances in the short term. 
But I think MBNA's compensation payment takes account of that. And I don't think Mr P has 
provided information about the terms of the loan with the lender and if any interest was 
charged in any event.
I also think that there would not have been any guarantee that a balance transfer application 
would have been approved. But I accept what Mr P says that some months later an 
application was approved.  
Overall I find the compensation MBNA has paid is fair and reasonable and I also find it would 
be unfair to order it to repay Mr P's borrowings for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman