DRN-3848706
The complaint
Mr Ns complained  on behalf of his late wifes (Mrs Ns) estate and himself  that Legal & 
General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) delayed in dealing with the claim he made on 
their joint life insurance policy when Mrs N passed away.  And when they did deal with it, 
L&G unfairly declined it.
What happened
In early 2017, Mr and Mrs N bought a joint life policy from L&G.  As part of the application 
process, they answered questions about their health and lifestyle.   L&G accepted their 
application and the policy started in March 2017.
Sadly, Mrs N passed away in summer 2021.  Shortly afterwards, Mr N submitted a claim to 
L&G.  After several months, L&G still hadnt made a decision on the claim.  So Mr N 
complained to them about their delay.
L&G investigated the complaint and wrote to Mr N with their findings.  They explained theyd 
had to wait for Mrs Ns death certificate, which was delayed because the coroner had had to 
investigate before that was issued.  And when they had that, theyd requested medical 
information from Mrs Ns GP which had taken some weeks to get.  
L&G also said they were dealing with more claims than usual (in part due to Covid 19) which 
had impacted their service.  But L&G agreed the delays were unacceptable and paid Mr N 
£300 compensation to recognise this.
Mr N subsequently referred the complaint to our service.  Before we fully investigated, Mr N 
contacted us to tell us L&G had declined the claim, because they said Mrs N had 
misrepresented her weight in the policy application.  So L&G cancelled the policy from the 
start and refunded the premiums that had been paid.
Mr N wasnt happy with L&Gs decision and these concerns were added to the matters hed 
referred to us.  L&G responded to the new complaints and accepted thered been further 
delays in the handling of the claim - or which they paid Mr N a further £420.  
But L&G maintained their decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was fair.  They 
felt, having reviewed her medical records, that Mrs N hadnt provided an accurate statement 
of her weight during the application process.  And that, had they been aware of the 
information in the report, they wouldnt have offered her the policy.  
In response, Mr N said that Mrs Ns records didnt have a record of her weight when the 
application was made  only from approximately two years before and two years later.  He 
said there can be significant weight gain/loss in a matter of months and there was no 
evidence his wife had misrepresented the position.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded L&G didnt need to do anything 
different to resolve it.  She said L&G had acted in line with the relevant legislation (the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)) when they 
concluded Mrs N had made a misrepresentation in the application.  And she was satisfied 
that, while there were delays in processing the claim, the £720 L&G had paid Mr N was 
reasonable compensation for this.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive now been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate L&G declining the claim Mr N made caused him upset at what was already a 
difficult time.  But I can only say L&G should do more to resolve the complaint if I think 
theyve not acted fairly and havent applied the relevant law.
Declining the claim
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers  in this case, Mrs N - to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy).  The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.  For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care.  And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Mr and Mrs N applied for the policy, they were asked to provide information related to 
their health  including how much they weighed.  L&G say Mrs N failed to take reasonable 
care when she provided that figure.  L&G have based that conclusion on their review of Mrs 
Ns medical records.
Ive thought very carefully about this.  And Ive reviewed the information in the medical 
records.  As Mr N has said, theres no record of Mrs Ns weight at the date of the application 
(March 2017).  But there are records showing a steady rise in Mrs Ns weight from 2007 to 
2019.  The lowest figure in 2007 is around the weight Mrs N declared to L&G.   And the 
records closest in time to the application show Mrs Ns weight was 20-30kg more than she 
declared.
Ive noted Mr Ns comments about how quickly weight can be lost or gained.  But Ive seen 
no evidence  for example, comments in the medical notes  which persuades me this 
happened in Mrs Ns case.  Without such evidence, I think it was reasonable for L&G to 
conclude Mrs N weighed more than she told them she did at the time of the application.  
It follows that Im satisfied Mrs N didnt take reasonable care in making the application and 
made a misrepresentation.   L&G have shown that, if shed have provided an accurate 
figure, her BMI would have been such that they wouldnt have offered her cover.  So Im 
satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation here.
L&G categorised Mrs Ns misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.  In these 
circumstances, CIDRA allows them to void the policy, refuse the claim and keep the 
premiums.  However, theyve applied the remedy for careless misrepresentation  which is 
to cancel the policy and refund the premiums which had been paid.  I think that was fair.  So 
Im not asking L&G to do anything more in relation to the claim.
DelayI can see that the longest period of inactivity in assessing the claim was about six weeks.  
However there were other, shorter, periods which added to the overall delay in reaching a 
claim decision.  Im pleased to see L&G accept their service in this respect wasnt up to 
standard.  So the only issue for me to consider is whether I agree with our investigator the 
£720 compensation L&G have paid Mr N is a reasonable amount to recognise this.
I think it is.  I understand the delays frustrated Mr N during what was a very difficult time in 
his life.  But the sum paid is consistent with our published guidance.  And in the 
circumstances, I dont think L&G need to do any more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr N has made on his own 
behalf and on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs N about Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and the 
estate of Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman