DRN-3707633
The complaint
Ms H complains that repairs carried out after a claim to Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
under her motor insurance policy were incomplete.
What happened
Ms H has car insurance underwritten by Admiral. She made a claim in March 2021 after she 
was involved in a road traffic accident.
Admiral accepted the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out to Ms Hs car, which 
was damaged along the length of the passenger side.
In September 2021 (five months after the accident), Ms Hs car failed its MOT. This was 
because of issues with the lights on the front passenger side of the car. In particular, the fog 
lamp was mis-aligned due to the bracket being broken.
Ms H says shes had no further accidents since the one in March 2021. And shes aware that 
the bracket for the fog lamp would only break if significant force were exerted on it. Theres 
no suggestion that it was corroded or suffering from wear and tear.
Ms H told Admiral theyd missed the issue when carrying out the original repairs. And she 
asked them to pay for the repair (the cost of the required part is around £120) and the cost of 
the second MOT she had to pay for. She also asked them to fix some minor damage to her 
rear bumper, which she said hadnt been picked up in March 2021.
Admiral refused to do so. They said the damage to the fog light wasnt due to the accident in 
March 2021 and wasnt evident when their contractor carried out the repairs.
Ms H wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Admiral. And when they didnt uphold 
her complaint, she brought it to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Admiral should pay for the repairs and the second 
MOT  and pay interest at 8% simple on that settlement, plus £100 in compensation for 
Ms Hs trouble and upset. He thought it was more likely than not that the damage to the fog 
lamp was a result of the March 2021 accident.
Admiral disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about the current issue with the fog lamp  or about the result of the 
first MOT. Its also absolutely clear that if the damage to the fog lamp was caused by the 
March 2021 accident, Admiral should pay for the required repairs as a final part of the 
settlement of the original claim. And pick up any subsequent cost of the second MOT  
which would have been unnecessary if the repairs has been carried out effectively in March 
2021.
So, the issue for me to decide is relatively simple. Was the damage in fact caused by the 
March 2021 accident, as Ms H suggests? Or did it occur after the original repairs were 
carried out and before the first MOT  so, in the period between late March and early 
September 2021.
The damage to the fog lamp is in an area of the car  the front passenger side  which 
clearly was impacted by the original accident. Repairs were carried out in that part of the car. 
So, its not unreasonable on the face of it to suggest that the fog lamp may have been 
affected at the same time.
Ms H says shes had no further accidents with her car after March 2021. I dont have any 
reason at all to disbelieve her. Theres no evidence to suggest a further accident. And if 
there had been, Ms H could have made a further claim and Admiral would presumably have 
been obliged to pay for the repairs in any case. 
Theres also no further damage to the car to suggest a second accident  and it might be 
expected that if Ms H had had a further bump sufficient to crack the fog lamp bracket, there 
might be other reasonably obvious damage to her car.
Admiral say the original inspection  for which theyve provided the engineers report  didnt 
pick up any damage to the fog lamp. They say this means there cant have been any 
damage at that time. 
The original engineers report certainly carries some evidential weight here, but I think 
Admiral are missing the point slightly. The complaint is exactly that the original inspection 
didnt pick up all of the damage.
There are also notes on Admirals case diary which show they asked an internal expert 
engineer to review the case. The expert thought the damage wasnt evident in March 2021. 
And that the damage to Ms Hs bumper  which shed said had also been missed in March 
2021  might in fact show that shed had a further accident.
It's difficult to see how a review of the March 2021 damage so long after the event  and 
relying only on the original report and the photographs that accompanied it  adds much to 
the debate. 
The photographs taken by the original engineer show the damage hed picked up. There are 
understandably no close photographs of areas he thought were undamaged  and theres 
certainly no photograph which shows the fog lamp bracket fully intact and undamaged.
And the point made by the expert about the damage to the bumper appears to miss the point 
that Ms H was complaining about damage to her rear bumper  well away from the damaged 
front passenger side fog lamp.
The experts hypothesis is that damage to the front bumper  near the fog lamp  might 
indicate a second accident. But the damage Ms H asks Admiral to rectify is at the rear of the 
car. 
Taking all of the relevant evidence and information into account, I dont think its possible 
now to say with any absolute certainty when the damage to the fog lamp occurred. However, 
Im satisfied on balance, weighing all of that evidence, its far more likely that the damage 
was caused by the accident in March 2021 than by any further accident since then.Putting things right
That being the case, I agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay for the repairs to 
the fog lamp and for the cost of the second MOT, on receipt of the relevant invoices from 
Ms H.
Ms H has effectively been deprived of that money  from the date she paid it out to the date 
Admiral pay her  and so Admiral should pay 8% simple interest on that amount, calculated 
between those dates.
Ms H has suffered a degree of inconvenience as a result of Admirals error  having to 
arrange a second MOT and pursue the issue with Admiral. And shes also suffered some 
stress and upset due to Admirals refusal to pay for the repairs and the second MOT.
Im satisfied the £100 suggested by our investigator is reasonable and sufficient 
compensation for Ms Hs trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must:
pay for the necessary repairs to Ms Hs fog lamp;
pay for her second MOT;
add 8% simple interest to both those payments, from the dates Ms H paid for the 
repairs and the MOT to the date Admiral make the payment to her;
pay Ms H £100 in compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman