DRN-3281300
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from ReAssure Limited after his investments 
were transferred from another business.
What happened
Mr B had two sets of investments. One is in his own name; the other was held in trust. 
Following a court-approved transfer of business, both sets of investments were moved to 
ReAssure.
Mr B says that around the time this happened he contacted ReAssure. At first, he says 
ReAssure could only see one set of his investments  though theyve since sent him details 
of the other one. He also asked if he could access his accounts online  and says ReAssure 
told him it would send this information out to him. But Mr B says he didnt hear anything and, 
after contacting it a few more times, he complained to ReAssure.
ReAssure looked at this. It said that invitations to use its online services were being sent to 
policyholders in batches. It apologised for not keeping Mr B updated about his access to the 
online portal  and offered him £50 to put things right.
By late December, log-in details had arrived and Mr B says that ReAssure sorted everything 
out by January 2021. Since then, hes been able to deal with his accounts online  and hes 
found it easier to contact ReAssure by telephone.
But he still wanted us to look into his complaint. He doesnt feel that the £50 ReAssure 
offered him is adequate compensation for the three months he says he couldnt access the 
account online.
Our investigator looked at this and thought that what ReAssure had offered was fair. Mr B 
doesnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure has apologised to Mr B and offered to pay him £50. So I need to consider whether 
this is fair.
Ive first considered what happened. Mr Bs investments were transferred to ReAssure from 
another business. This meant he could no longer access details of his investments online 
until he was given access to ReAssures online portal.
But because of the numbers of policies transferred to ReAssure at the same time as Mr Bs, 
ReAssure sent invitations to access the online portal in batches. This meant that it wasnt 
until December that Mr B first got access to the portal. And it wasnt until January that he 
was able to access this service fully.
Ive thought about all this.
Given the numbers of policies being transferred, I dont think it was necessarily 
unreasonable for ReAssure to roll out online access in phases. Its not my role to tell a 
business how it should operate.
But ReAssure accepts it could have explained things better  and I agree. Based on what 
Ive seen, it doesnt look as though ReAssure told Mr B how long it was going to take for him 
to get online access until it responded to his complaint in November 2020. Mr B chased 
ReAssure a number of times to find out what was happening to his account. But it doesnt 
appear he received acknowledgements. That said, ReAssure did tell Mr B that hed have 
access to online services within six weeks of its letter of 18 November 2020  and it does 
appear that Mr B received his invitation to register within this period.
So the question I need to consider is whether the £50 ReAssure has already offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint should be upheld, Id look to put the 
consumer in the financial position theyd be in if things hadnt gone wrong.
Here I think that if things hadnt gone wrong Mr B would have understood sooner how long it 
was likely to be before he had access to the online portal. I dont think hes lost out 
financially because of anything ReAssure did. And even if hed had access to the online 
portal, Mr B has told us he might have gained or lost money.
I can also award compensation where the actions of the business have caused material 
distress or inconvenience. I recognise that not having access to his investments online was 
frustrating for Mr B  it meant he had to call ReAssure, which was experiencing delays 
responding to phones, as well as sending messages through its website. And I think that if 
ReAssure had been clearer about when Mr B was likely to receive online access, some of 
this would have been avoided.
Where I award compensation for distress or inconvenience, this isnt intended to punish the 
business but to reflect the impact this had on its customer. I recognise that Mr B feels 
strongly that ReAssure should be held to account for what he has described as abysmal 
service. But Im satisfied I need to consider the impact ReAssures actions had on Mr B.
With this in mind, I dont think the £50 offer is unreasonable. I recognise that Mr B had to 
contact ReAssure on a number of occasions to find out what was happening  and I agree 
that ReAssure could have explained things better. But what ReAssure did doesnt appear to 
have had an impact on Mr B beyond that.
In all the circumstances, I think that what ReAssure has offered is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that ReAssure Limited has offered fair compensation for giving Mr B 
inadequate information about his account. It should pay the £50 it has offered to Mr B if it 
hasnt already. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman