DRN-3336094
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy Santander UK Plc has not agreed to increase his overdraft despite being 
told in branch that it would. Mr B also feels the level of compensation offered by Santander 
in response to his complaint is low.
 
What happened
Mr B visited a branch of Santander to withdraw some money from his account. He says he 
was told he would be able to increase his overdraft limit. 
Mr B says when he checked his banking app a few days later he saw the application was 
declined. Mr B says he returned to the branch to query why it had been declined. Mr B says 
he visited the branch when it was close to closing. He says the member of staff he spoke to 
told him he would not have been able to increase his overdraft in the first place and told him 
to call the banks complaint line rather than helping him to set up a complaint. 
Since Mr B was unhappy with the service he received he complained to Santander. 
Santander said the increase in overdraft was not available when Mr B originally attended the 
branch. It explained the overdraft limit is calculated at the beginning of each month and is 
fixed for the whole month so the limit available throughout the month remains the same. Mr 
B complained to Santander again since he felt the final response letter didnt cover all of his 
complaint points. And so Santander looked at the complaint again. It said it upheld its 
original decision but accepted Mr Bs complaint could have been handled better. And so it 
apologised to Mr B for the inconvenience and distress caused by the incident and paid him 
£50 to reflect this. 
Mr B says Santanders response didnt cover all of the issues he raised, and the 
compensation offered was too low. Mr B says he has incurred travel costs going to and from 
the branch of approximately £50.00. He says he wouldnt have attended the branch a 
second time if he hadnt been told he could increase his overdraft. And so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
couldnt see any evidence Santander had told Mr B he could have an increase on his 
overdraft. The investigator said even if Santander had mistakenly told him he could increase 
his overdraft she didnt think it would be reasonable for it to cover his travel costs to the 
branch. The investigator explained she couldnt look at whether the offer of £50 was fair 
since it was related to a complaint about complaints handling, which she isnt authorised to 
investigate. 
I understand following the view Mr B says he didnt apply to increase his overdraft and that 
he was going into the branch to do it. Which is when he was told he was not able to. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from the investigator and so the matter has been 
referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I have made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
The circumstances of Mr Bs visit to the branch arent agreed by the parties. I dont have any 
way of knowing what Mr B was told when he went into the branch but both parties agree Mr 
B wasnt happy when he was told he wouldnt be able to increase his overdraft.
Increasing overdraft
Mr B says he was told he could increase his overdraft when he went into the branch to 
withdraw some money. In the absence of any evidence to confirm the nature of the 
conversation I am only able to consider what may have happened on a balance of 
probabilities. Santander has shown that at the time Mr B attended the branch he would not 
have been eligible for an increased overdraft and have told us when the system considers a 
customer ineligible for an increase in credit, it cannot be overridden by bank staff. So Im 
satisfied Mr B was unlikely to have been told he would be accepted for an increase in 
overdraft. Its more likely a general conversation occurred where Mr B was told he could 
apply for an increase to his overdraft if he wanted to. Which he could at the time. Whether he 
was accepted for the increase or not is considered below. 
I can understand why Mr B might have been upset when he was told he wouldnt be able to 
increase his overdraft. But I cant say Santander acted unfairly. This is because before 
offering credit to consumers, financial businesses need to ensure any borrowing is 
affordable. And so Id expect Santander to carry out a careful assessment of Mr Bs 
circumstances to ensure he met its criteria. In this case it told Mr B he was not eligible to 
increase his overdraft. I can see that Santanders final response letter made it clear that 
although Mr B was not currently eligible to increase his overdraft, this didnt mean it wouldnt 
be able to assess his eligibility in the future. 
I know Mr B has said he attended the branch the following day in order to increase his 
overdraft. And in order to do so he took a taxi at a cost of £50. Since I cant say Santander 
did something wrong in not offering Mr B an increase in his overdraft I dont think its 
reasonable for it to reimburse him for the cost of the taxi. 
Complaint handling
Mr B believes £50.00 isnt enough to reflect the inconvenience caused to him. The payment 
is meant as an apology for the way his complaint was originally handled and therefore I am 
unable to comment on this. Complaints handling is not a regulated activity and as such I am 
unable to make a finding on the level of compensation. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman