DRN-2964755
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Santander UK Plc wouldnt read out all their recent 
transactions over the phone. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr P called Santander and asked for a list of all his recent transactions. 
The advisor explained she could only give him the three most recent ones. Mr P was 
unhappy with this and said he always asked for his recent transactions and was given the 
information he wanted. The advisor double-checked with a manager that she was following 
the policy correctly. She suggested alternatives such as going to an ATM, and she sent him 
an up-to-date statement by post. But Mr P said those options werent suitable for him  he 
was shielding, and he wanted the information now rather than later.
Mr P complained on behalf of himself and Mrs P. He explained hed wanted the exact 
account balance for an important meeting, which hed then had to postpone. He didnt trust 
that the balance hed been given on the phone was correct, so he wanted to check which of 
his recent transactions had or hadnt debited yet.
Santander explained they didnt give out more than three transactions over the phone for 
security reasons, so the advisor had acted correctly. They explained that if advisors had 
given Mr P more information than that in the past then they were mistaken to do so.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that the advisor had acted appropriately and followed the right security process to 
keep Mr and Mrs Ps account secure. 
Mr P didnt agree. He felt that hed been let down and should get compensation and an 
apology. He asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I should explain that our service cant make a bank change their processes  its the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA for short) who regulates financial businesses 
and their systems. But I have thought carefully about how Santander dealt with Mr P here 
and whether they did anything wrong in this individual situation.
I do understand why Mr P would have preferred to receive all his recent transactions over 
the phone, and I appreciate his point of view. But Santander have to have security policies in 
place to keep accounts safe. One of those policies is to limit the information they give out 
over the phone, which makes sense. It is very important that banks keep their customers 
data secure.
Ive looked at Santanders internal policy, and I can see that the advisor followed it correctly. 
During the call, she also double-checked things with a manager. She was polite throughout 
and I think she handled the call well.
Santander offered reasonable alternatives for Mr P to check his account in the detail he 
wanted  such as using a cash machine or sending a statement in the post. They also had 
online banking and mobile banking facilities that were available to use. I understand that 
these options did not fit with Mr Ps needs and preferences at the time, but generally 
speaking they were reasonable alternatives. Sometimes, a business wont offer a service in 
the exact way that one would prefer them to  but Santander did offer an appropriately wide 
range of options here.
Mr P says that in the past, hes been given the amount of information hed like over the 
phone. And I can understand why that might have set the wrong expectation. It sounds like 
those advisors may have not followed the process they were supposed to, though they were 
ultimately trying to help Mr P. But Im satisfied that in this case, the advisor got things right 
and acted reasonably in following the security process to keep Mr and Mrs Ps account safe.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman