DRN-2733515
The complaint
Mr M complains that he lost money when he transferred a workplace pension held with The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) into his personal pension 
also held with them. He says he was assured there would be no charges for the transfer and 
things would happen the same day  but this didnt happen resulting in a difference in the 
transfer value of around £500.
What happened
The circumstances and background leading up to this complaint are known to both parties  
so I wont repeat everything here. Briefly:
Mr M, through a financial adviser, requested his workplace pension held with Royal London 
be transferred to his personal pension plan also held with Royal London.
The pension transfer, or exit date was 9 March 2020.
Mr M complained to Royal London because the value he was given in his leavers pack 
dated 9 March 2020 was higher than the transfer value actually carried out, dated 10 March 
2020. Mr M said he was told there would be no cost to make the transfer and said he didnt 
understand why there was a day between crystallising the value in one policy and acquiring 
units in the other. He said he was assured things would happen simultaneously.
Royal London declined Mr Ms complaint. It said it hadnt done anything wrong  the transfer 
date was 9 March 2020 but that the fund prices were taken as at 10 March 2020, which 
accounted for the difference in value. It said this was its standard procedure for carrying out 
this type of transfer.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr M brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our investigator looked at all of this  and they concluded Royal London hadnt done 
anything wrong. In summary they said the correct process was followed and the difference in 
value was due to the pricing and value of Mr Ms investments and when this pricing of the 
funds takes place. They said values couldnt be guaranteed and it was because of a drop in 
the price of the underlying investments the next working day, which resulted in the lower 
transfer value  but this wasnt the result of an error on Royal Londons part.
Mr M disagrees. In summary he says was assured that the process could be done on the 
same day to avoid the very issue of changes in value. He doesnt accept that he has not 
suffered a loss as a result of the transaction.
The complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I dont uphold his 
complaint. I think the investigator has explained things clearly and I agree with the 
conclusions they have reached for the following reasons.
Mr Ms pension transfer request involved a transfer from a workplace arranged scheme  a 
group personal pension  to his personal pension plan both held with Royal London. To help 
me decide if things happened as they should have when Royal London executed the 
transfer, Ive firstly looked at Royal Londons group personal pension plan terms and 
conditions  the conditions applicable to Mr Ms pension he wanted to transfer.
I can see this says that the transfer date should be the business day on which Royal London 
has all the necessary documentation and written instructions required to make the transfer. 
In Mr Ms case this date was 9 March 2020. And Im satisfied the transfer was actioned on 9 
March 2020 - so without any delay. 
The same terms and conditions also refer to the value of the transfer and how it is 
calculated. It says the amount available to transfer will be calculated at the transfer date, 
which is equal to the value of the units held by the plan as at that date. And that the unit 
price of the funds will be calculated on the transfer date. Again, in Mr Ms case this should 
have happened on 9 March 2020.
For me to establish if this was the case, I need to consider how and when Royal London 
calculates the unit price of its funds to arrive at a value. Like most investment businesses, 
Royal London calculates the unit price of its investment funds once a day. And in its case 
this happens at the close of business each working day. So because Mr Ms transfer date 
was 9 March 2020, the value of his plan would be calculated using the unit prices of the 
underlying investment funds he held as at the close of business on 9 March 2020 i.e. after 
the markets had closed that day reflecting what happened to the various markets that day. 
Royal London has provided some unit price information and having looked at this, Im 
satisfied the correct value was applied to Mr Ms pension transfer using the 9 March 2020 
closing prices.
I can see that Royal London has explained the valuation process as being  exit day + 1 
And this is effectively because of what I have described above about how the pricing of the 
underlying funds works. In practice because the pricing needs to reflect the close of 
business values, it is not until the following day that a transaction like this is carried out and 
valued so that it reflects the previous working days closing price. So in Mr Ms case, 
because the transfer date was 9 March 2020, the 10 March 2020 was the transaction date to 
capture the price as at close on 9 March 2020 (the transfer date.)
It is this pricing and valuation process, which explains why, when Mr M was quoted a 
transfer value on 9 March 2020 when he was issued with what Royal London calls the 
leavers pack, it was different to the one he received  the value he was given then was 
based on the previous working days fund prices i.e. Friday 6 March 2020.
But values cant be guaranteed. Mr Ms loss as he describes it was unfortunately down to 
market timing. The Worlds stock markets suffered a fall on 9 March 2020, which resulted in 
a marked drop in the value of some of Mr Ms underlying funds (I note some of the funds increased in value but the commodity and equity-based funds fell by around 6%.) And it is 
this which accounts for the difference in the transfer value Mr M was quoted to the one which 
was applied. Mr Ms loss is a market loss and not one caused by any charges or because 
Royal London made an error. 
Overall Im satisfied Royal London carried things out in line with its normal process for 
transfers like Mr Ms  it hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
I can see that in response to our investigators assessment of his complaint, Mr M says he 
was told there would be no charge for the transfer and says that he was told by his financial 
adviser that the transfer could be done the same day to avoid the problem of changing 
values.
As I said above, there was no charge for the transfer  the difference in the quoted transfer 
value and the actual value was down to market movements and a fall in the unit price of the 
underlying investment funds. But in terms of what Mr Ms adviser did or didnt say about the 
transfer, this is not something I can consider here. Its not appropriate for me to pass any 
comment because this complaint is about Royal London, not Mr Ms financial adviser. If Mr 
M has any concerns about the information he was or wasnt given by his financial adviser, 
whether that information purportedly came from Royal London or not, then he should raise 
these direct with the adviser in the first instance.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied Royal London has not acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
carrying out Mr Ms pension transfer. I think it acted without delay and followed its usual 
process for carrying out a transfer like Mr Ms. While I understand that Mr M is frustrated and 
disappointed about the loss in the value of his pension, this was not because of something 
done or not done by Royal London. It was caused by a fall in the price of the underlying 
investment funds held within Mr Ms pension plan on the day the transfer was made. And it is 
for these reasons that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman