DRN-2397101
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the settlement shes been paid by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
for a claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G has travel insurance as a benefit of her packaged bank account.
Mrs G and her husband, Mr G were on holiday abroad. Sadly, Mr G passed away suddenly. 
Mrs G had to pay for Mr G to be repatriated back to the UK and for other expenses. So she 
made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
There were some delays in IPA looking into Mrs Gs claim. It paid Mrs G compensation of 
£250 to recognise the trouble and upset this had caused her. Ultimately, it accepted the 
claim. But it noted that Mr Gs medical records showed hed had a heart attack in 2007. It 
said Mr and Mrs G shouldve declared this to its medical screening team each year. If theyd 
done so, IPA wouldve charged Mr G an additional premium of £36 for medical cover, in 
addition to the £42.31 they paid for the travel element of their packaged bank account each 
year. So it said Mr and Mrs G had only paid 54.03% of the premium they shouldve paid. On 
this basis, it paid Mrs Gs claim proportionately  paying 54.03% of the costs shed claimed 
for.
Mrs G wasnt happy with IPAs decision. She said Mr G had declared his heart attack in 
2010 and had paid an additional premium at that point. She said the price of the policy had 
gone up each year subsequently and shed understood this was to ensure Mr Gs medical 
history was covered. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. She felt the terms of Mrs 
Gs policy made it clear that medical conditions needed to be declared each year. Mrs G 
accepted that no medical declaration for Mr G had been made since 2010. She also 
considered that the policy asked clear questions about a policyholders health, which 
shouldve prompted Mr and Mrs G to call each year and declare Mr Gs heart attack. As Mrs 
G hadnt done so, she thought it was fair and reasonable for IPA to pay Mrs Gs claim 
proportionately.
Mrs G disagreed. She said shed paid for the policy for many years, even when she and Mr 
G hadnt taken holidays. She felt she mayve been better off taking out standalone travel 
policies instead. She maintained that as the policy said medical declarations may change the 
cover at renewal, and indeed cover had changed at each renewal, shed thought Mr Gs 
heart attack was covered. She also referred to a statement from an American government 
department which she felt supported her position.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think IPA has settled Mrs Gs claim fairly. Ill explain why.
At the outset, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs G for her sad loss. I appreciate 
how shocking and distressing the loss of Mr G was and what a difficult time it mustve been 
for her.
It may be helpful if I firstly explain how Mrs Gs packaged account works. Mrs G has a 
packaged account through her bank, for which she pays the bank a monthly fee. This fee 
covers a range of benefits which are attached to her account and the benefits of the account 
are provided on a rolling basis for as long as Mrs G pays the account charge. Shes told us 
she pays £15 per month (£180 per year) for the account, of which £42.31 per year is paid to 
IPA for Mrs Gs travel insurance. It seems Mrs G believes the annual amount she pays is for 
the travel insurance itself. But as Ive explained, the travel insurance makes up less than a 
quarter of what Mrs G pays her bank for her account annually.
Ive thought carefully about the terms of Mrs Gs policy and the circumstances of her claim to 
decide whether IPA handled the claim reasonably. The regulators rules say that insurers 
must handle claims fairly and promptly. And they mustnt turn them down unreasonably.
When a consumer takes out insurance  or in the case of a policy which forms part of a 
packaged bank account, at certain times during the lifetime of that policy - theyll be asked 
questions about themselves and the risks they want to insure. An insurer then uses that 
information to assess whether it wishes to cover that risk and how much it will charge for 
doing so. 
CIDRA places a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation and they must provide an insurer with accurate information so that it can 
accurately weigh up the risk of a claim and decide whether to offer cover. If a policyholder 
fails to do so and makes a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, an insurer may be 
entitled to avoid the insurance contract, as if itd never existed or only pay a proportionate 
part of the amount being claimed under the policy  
So I need to decide whether I think Mr and Mrs G took reasonable care to provide IPA with 
accurate information. That can involve a number of things, including whether the questions 
they were asked by IPA were sufficiently clear to prompt them to declare Mr Gs heart attack 
each year and the Ischaemic Heart Disease the medical certificate states he suffered from. 
IPA says that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been sent an annual eligibility statement letter in 
January each year, which set out the key eligibility criteria for the policy. IPA has provided 
template letters it says were sent to Mr and Mrs G in January 2018 and 2019. While there 
are no contact records or personally addressed copies showing these letters were sent to Mr 
and Mrs G, I think its most likely that they wouldve been sent by the bank.
The 2019 template letter states: No claims arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing 
medical condition(s) affecting any person travelling under this insurance will be covered, 
unless they have been declared to the Medical Assessment helpline and the condition(s) 
have been accepted in writing. All medical conditions must be re-declared upon the expiry of 
your Medical Health Declaration Please follow the step-by-step guide Do you need to 
make a Medical Health Declaration? on page 3 of your Worldwide Travel Insurance booklet. 
Any changes in health or prescribed medication must be notified immediately. Im satisfied that this important information was set out clearly in the letter and directed 
consumers to check page 3 of their policy terms.  So Ive then turned to consider what page 
3 of the policy requires a policyholder to do.
Page 3 is titled Do you need to make a Medical Health Declaration?
This section of the policy explains when a medical health declaration needs to be made. It 
sets out steps for a policyholder to follow.
Step 1 asks: 
a) During the last two years, has anyone travelling under this policy had any medical or 
psychological condition: 
 which has resulted in symptoms, or 
 for which any form of treatment or prescribed medication has been required, or 
 for which they have required any medical consultation, investigation or follow-up.
b) Has anyone travelling under this policy EVER had any cardiovascular or circulatory 
condition? For example: 
 A heart attack, angina, chest pain(s), or any other heart condition.
  High blood pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, aneurysm, or any circulatory 
disease. 
 Any form of stroke, transient ischaemic attack, or brain haemorrhage. 
If the answer to either question is yes, the policyholder is directed to Step 2. 
This step relates to waived conditions which are covered without charge under the policy so 
long as certain conditions are met. But if the policyholder has a condition that isnt listed as a 
waived condition, theyre asked to move on to step 3. 
This step requires each person travelling under the policy to call the medical assessment 
helpline to declare their medical conditions: when  booking any trip, or  upon the annual 
renewal of your medical health declaration, whichever is the later It explains that IPA will: 
assess the medical information supplied to us and advise if we can cover the pre-existing 
medical condition(s), if certain exclusions or restrictions should be imposed, or if cover can 
be offered subject to the payment of an additional premium 
It says: If your policy is endorsed to cover any claims arising from your pre-existing medical 
condition(s), the endorsement will remain valid for 12 months and you need not re-
declare your pre-existing medical conditions(s) when taking any trips within that 12-
month period. (Bold is my emphasis).
This step also explains that: Failure to declare pre-existing medical conditions that are 
relevant to this insurance may invalidate your claim. 
Theres no dispute that Mr G had suffered from a heart attack in 2007 and IHD, but that this 
hadnt been declared to and accepted by IPA during the 2019 policy year. Mrs G accepts 
she knew about the need to call medical screening, because Mr G had declared this 
condition in 2010 and had paid an additional premium. She says that she thought this was a 
one-off payment for cover and that it would be taken into account at each renewal, with the 
premium increasing to reflect it.
As Mr and Mrs G hadnt declared Mr Gs pre-existing condition, IPA has made an offer to 
settle the claim proportionately under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2013 (CIDRA). I now need to decide whether this is fair.Having looked at the questions asked and the way theyre set out and appear at the start of 
the policy booklet, I think theyre reasonably clear. And having considered the medical 
evidence Ive been provided with, Im satisfied that Mr G ought to have made a declaration 
before booking the trip. Thats because heart attacks and heart conditions arent listed as 
waived conditions in the policy terms. And I think the policy clearly states that that 
endorsements to cover medical conditions will only remain valid for 12 months. So I think Mr 
and Mrs G shouldve been prompted to make an annual declaration. I dont think the policy 
indicated that only one health declaration was necessary during the life of the policy.
As Ive explained, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs G didnt complete a medical screening 
after 2010. So, overall, I think that Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care to answer 
IPAs questions and made a qualifying misrepresentation. However, I dont think they 
deliberately or recklessly sought to mislead IPA. I think they made a careless mistake.
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldve still entered into 
the contract but wouldve charged a higher premium, then it is entitled to reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim. Mr and Mrs G paid £41.32 per year for 
their insurance policy. IPA sent us evidence which showed that if theyd declared Mr Gs 
previous heart attack in 2019, it wouldve charged an additional premium of £36. This means 
Mr and Mrs G paid 54.03% of the premium they ought to have paid.  So I think it was fair and 
reasonable for IPA to limit its settlement to paying this proportion of Mrs Gs claim. 
Overall, I think IPAs offer is fair and reasonable and is in line with CIDRA. So Im not telling 
it to pay anything more for Mrs Gs claim.
I do think there were delays in the way IPA handled Mrs Gs claim though and that it didnt 
meet its responsibility to handle her claim fairly. I dont doubt that this added to her distress 
at an already difficult time. So Im pleased that IPA recognised this and paid Mrs G £250 
compensation to recognise the impact its handling of the claim had on her. I think this was a 
fair amount to reflect Mrs Gs distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman