DRN-2240455
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund £24,975 he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam 
What happened
What Mr J says
Mr J says he was cold called by what he thought was an investment company Ill call 
company A and pressured in to investing. He says the caller was professional and 
persuasive and told Mr J company A was registered with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Mr J had some experience of trading himself but felt the demands of planning and 
executing successful trades were too great. He felt that company A offered him the 
opportunity to invest with a company that offered skilled traders who could plan successful 
trades for him.
Mr J says he made some checks such as looking at an EU-based register of companies 
(although he cant remember what it showed) and because company A was based abroad, 
he emailed the banking regulator in that country but didnt receive a reply. He also checked 
that the address he was given for company A existed and tested the callers knowledge and 
understanding of the investment sector in his conversations. Mr J found the caller to be 
educated and knowledgeable and was reassured that no more than one percent of his 
capital would be invested in a single trade, which he thought demonstrated good risk 
management. Mr J says he was aware that if a deal sounded too good to be true it probably 
was. He was offered modest growth of around 5%. Mr J made the following online 
payments, which Ill discuss below:
Date Amount
04/08/17 £475
21/09/17 £4,500
09/10/17 £4,500 returned
11/10/17 £4,500
19/01/18 £20,000
Total £24,975
Mr J says that company A initially said the minimum he could invest was £5,000 but he didnt 
want to invest this much to begin with. Instead he chose to invest £475 on 4 August 2017 
and see how the investment performed before he decided whether to invest further. He was 
able to see the performance of his investment on a portal that looked professional and 
legitimate. The investment performed relatively well, so Mr J decided to invest a further 
£4,500 on 21 September 2017.
After making the payment Mr J received a call from company A to say it hadnt been able to 
apply the £4,500 to his account so would return it. The funds were returned to Mr Js account 
and he was asked to pay them to a new account, with a different name, sort-code and 
account number. On 11 October 2017 Mr J made the payment as instructed.
Mr J says he was able to view an online trading platform and saw that £4,500 was credited 
to his account. As well as seeing the performance of his investment on the platform Mr J 
explained he had regular conversations with an account manager. He saw his investments 
rise and fall and the growth was modest. 
In January 2018 Mr J says he received another call from company A. He was told he needed 
to invest more funds to get more trades per day. He transferred £22,500 from another 
Halifax account and then transferred £20,000 to the account details provided by company A 
to invest on 19 January 2018. He paid the same account name as when he made the last 
transfer and says he didnt notice the sort-code and account number had changed. 
In March 2018 Mr J wished to withdraw funds and was told he needed to give 90 days 
notice to do so. At the end of this period company A told Mr J it was being investigated by 
HMRC and his funds would be tied up until the investigation was complete. He then received 
an email asking him to pay tax to release his funds. Mr J thought this was unusual and 
contacted Halifax on 13 July 2018. Halifax contacted the three receiving banks that day but 
was unable to recover any of Mr Js funds. 
Mr J thinks Halifax should have recognised his transactions were unusual and to unorthodox 
accounts and had a conversation with him about it in which Halifax should have discussed 
the importance of FCA regulation. Had this have happened Mr J says he wouldnt have 
made the payments. 
What Halifax say
Halifax hasnt refunded any of the funds Mr J lost. It said:
- The transactions were not suspicious, so no warnings were given.
- The name of the account the funds were transferred to changed and the bank 
account details Mr J was provided with changed twice. These changes should have 
alerted Mr J to a problem, and he should have queried the changes.
- Halifax is unable to tell if accounts held with other banks are being used fraudulently.
- Mr J had previous investment experience but thought the discussions he had about 
the investment were normal.
- Mr J could have completed further checks. Company A was based in Cyprus, but Mr 
J accepted its statement that it was regulated with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in the UK. 
- It attempted to recover Mr Js funds but was unable to do so. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator upheld Mr Js complaint in part. She said Halifax should have flagged the 
second and third payments (for £4,500 and £20,000) as unusual and suspicious in 
appearance considering Mr Js normal account and payment activity. She said this because 
the account was mainly used as a savings account and for transfers between accounts, the 
payments were made online and to new payees. Previous payments to new payees were for 
much lower amounts. 
The investigator felt that had the payments been flagged by Halifax it would have uncovered 
that Mr J was potentially the victim of a scam and prevented the payments from being made. 
So, she asked Halifax to refund £24,500 to Mr J together with interest. The investigator responded to Mr Js points about the name of the beneficiary by saying that it wasnt 
established industry practice at the time to check the name of the payee. Finally, the 
investigator said Halifax had done what it could to recover Mr Js funds, but none remained.  
Mr J accepted what the investigator said and added that Halifax should have delayed his 
payments and called him before making them. Had Halifax have told him he was crediting a 
pre-paid card when he made the £20,000 transaction he wouldnt have made the payment. 
Mr J didnt have the banking knowledge to be aware of this fact himself.  Mr J also referred 
to the due diligence undertaken by another bank in the same group as Halifax when his 
mother made a payment and questioned why Halifax didnt ask similar questions before 
making his payments. 
Halifax didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said:
- Mr J was an experienced investor who had been on a number of courses and so 
should have done more to prevent the scam from happening. Halifax referred to 
funds debited and credited from various accounts that it felt related to previous 
investments;
- Although Mr J asked if company A was FCA registered he simply accepted that it 
was and didnt check for himself  the fact that it was based abroad made this 
improbable;
- Mr J wasnt asked to pay the company he was dealing with, which should have rung 
alarm bells;  
- At the time the payment was made there was no requirement to check the name of 
the payee and it was up to Mr J to satisfy himself funds were going to the right 
beneficiary and to ask questions if necessary before he transferred funds.
- Even if Halifax had spoken to Mr J at the time he made the payments its likely hed 
have said he was making an investment. Given Mr Js previous account activity this 
would have seemed plausible.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in 
sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years - which banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr J when he made the above payments, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Did Halifax act fairly and reasonably in Mr Js case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax should have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr J made were out of character and unusual. 
The payments Mr J made to the scammer were from two different accounts in his sole name. 
The account the payments of £475 and £4,500 were made from was used rarely and only for 
payments of under £100 before the first scam payment. The final payment of £20,000 was 
made from another account that was used to a greater extent, but largely for transfers to Mr 
Js other accounts and to his wifes account. Some of these inter account transfers were for 
large sums, but the largest payment out of the account was for less than £1,000 and most 
payments were for much less. 
Like the investigator, I wouldnt expect Halifax to flag or ask questions about the initial £475 
payment. It was a relatively small amount and given the overall pattern of spending across 
the two accounts wasnt particularly unusual or out of character. But I think the next payment 
of £4,500 was unusual. It was for a greater sum than any previous transaction on the 
accounts and was to a new payee. Mr J didnt make many online transfers (except to other 
accounts he and his wife held) and when he did the amounts were far lower  no higher than 
£500. And the £20,000 payment was very unusual given previous account activity  it was 
for a significantly greater amount than any other payment in the preceding six months 
(excluding transfers between accounts). It was also to a new payee.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think Halifax ought fairly and reasonably to have 
identified that Mr J was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter of 
good practice, Halifax should fairly and reasonably have made additional checks before 
processing the second payment Mr J made to the scammer (for £4,500). Specifically, I 
consider Halifax ought to have contacted Mr J to question him about the purpose of the 
payment, how he was contacted by the investment company, whether it was FCA regulated 
and the checks hed undertaken to ensure company A was genuine. Halifax say that even if it did fail in its duty to Mr J, it doesnt consider its liable for his loss 
because it doesnt believe its intervention would have made any difference to Mr J making 
the payment. Halifax says Mr J would have said he was investing and as hed invested 
before this would have sounded plausible. But I dont agree. If Halifax had acted on the 
triggers outlined above, it seems likely it would have contacted Mr J and asked reasonable 
but probing questions to verify he wasnt being scammed or at risk of financial harm in 
relation to the unusual and uncharacteristic payment hed requested.
Had Halifax contacted Mr J and asked him some questions about the payment and provided 
some warnings about the prevalence of investment scams I believe its more likely than not 
the scam would have become apparent and would have been prevented. Mr J would have 
explained that he received an unsolicited call, which is often how investment scams start. 
When asked about FCA registration Mr J would have explained he hadnt checked if 
company A was registered with the FCA in the UK, although hed been told it was. Hes told 
this service that at the time of the transactions he had no knowledge of the importance of 
FCA regulation  this only came to light when he later reported the scam to the police. He 
also explained he was not aware that platforms existed showing faked investment results. 
I consider Mr J demonstrated he was a cautious investor by initially only investing £475 in 
spite of the fact he was told the minimum investment was usually £5,000. Im persuaded that 
if Halifax had explained the potential that he was transferring funds as part of a scam and 
some simple steps he could have taken to protect himself  like checking the FCA register - 
hed have paused to make enquiries before committing to more substantial payments. I dont 
consider that because Mr J had invested before, and so the reason for the payment was 
plausible, Halifax shouldnt have asked further questions designed to get sufficient detail to 
disturb or unearth a potential scam.  
Finally, Ive thought about Halifaxs comments that Mr J didnt do enough to protect himself. 
The best way Mr J could have done so was to check company A on the FCA register but he 
was unaware of the importance of FCA regulation when investing. Mr J also wasnt alert to 
the potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones and provide fake 
platforms. But Halifax was aware of the prevalence of scams of this nature. And although 
Halifax is aware that a UK registered investment company is unlikely to be based in Cyprus 
(as company A was) Im not persuaded Mr J should have known this. 
As I said above, Mr J initially made a small investment to test its performance. He saw a 
moderate and not unrealistic rate of growth and so decided to invest a larger sum of £4,500. 
When this sum was returned to him Mr J was reassured that the investment was legitimate 
as he didnt consider someone dishonest would risk losing this sum of money. He could see 
the performance of his investment online. He saw the value of his investment go up and 
down and overall a modest rate of growth, which is what he expected. On 15 December 
2017, before he made his final £20,000 payment Mr J was told in an email from company A 
the total profit on the account was £58.82. This is certainly not a rate of return thats too 
good to be true. So I consider Mr J had taken precautions and believed he was investing 
with a genuine company. 
Halifax has referred to the fact Mr J was an experienced investor and so should have done 
more to prevent the scam from happening. It has provided statements for other accounts 
held by Mr J and highlighted certain payments and credits that appear to relate to previous 
investments. Whilst it appears Mr J has previous experience of investing himself, Im not 
persuaded this means he knew of the risk of being scammed or of the kind of checks it 
would be prudent to complete before investing. This was a sophisticated scam, but it could 
easily have been prevented if straightforward questions had been asked and advice given 
about investment scams and the importance of checking the FCA register. Halifax say that the fact Mr J was asked to make payments to different accounts should have 
been a red flag to him that something was amiss. As Ive said above, Mr J had previously 
made his own investments and hadnt used a company that would plan the trades for him. 
So Im not confident he should have known that transferring funds to different accounts was 
a cause for concern. 
So, on balance, I think a suitable warning about the risks of the payment Mr J was instructing 
combined with the amount of money involved would have caused him to pause and consider 
his options. And Ive seen no indication that Mr J was so anxious to proceed that he would 
have ignored warnings or been unprepared to postpone the payment to reflect on the matter 
and make further enquiries.
Mr J has referred to the fact he was making payments to unorthodox bank accounts 
including a pre-paid card and that had Halifax have told him this he wouldnt have made the 
transfers. At the time Mr J made the payments Halifax was under an obligation only to pay 
the funds to the correct unique identifiers (the sort code and account number). So, it follows 
that I dont consider that Halifax did anything wrong in processing Mr Js instructions for 
each of the payments and consequently sending the money to the unique identifiers he 
entered. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint against Halifax in part. I dont
think it was fair and reasonable for Halifax not to refund the second and third payments Mr J 
made when he was the victim of a scam. As a result, Halifax should refund Mr J the second 
and third payments he made (for £4,500 and £20,000) and also refund interest as set out 
below. 
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
- Refund Mr J £24,500 less any funds recovered;
- Pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
transaction to the date of settlement. If Halifax deducts tax from the interest element 
of this award, it should provide Mr J with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman