DRN-4242459
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Car Insurance, has recorded an 
incident as notification only which is affecting the cost of his motor insurance premium. 
What happened
In May 2022, Mr M told UKI hed knocked a stationary unattended car when parking. At that 
point, he didnt want to make a claim on the policy as there werent any issues with his 
vehicle, he just wanted to let UKI know in case the third party made claim. He was told the 
claim would be left open for 90 days. 
When the time came to renew his policy in December 2022, the cost of Mr Ms policy had 
increased by a significant amount. After contacting UKI about this, it noticed the third partys 
insurer hadnt been in touch and the claim had mistakenly stayed open for longer than 90 
days. It was closed in December 2022 and UKI allowed his no claims discount. As Mr M had 
to call UKI to get the claim closed, UKI upheld this part of Mr Ms complaint. But it explained 
the matter would remain on Mr Ms record as the notification of an incident which couldve 
resulted in a claim UKI wouldve had to pay for. To apologise for the time it took to close the 
claim record and impact this had on Mr M, UKI sent him a cheque for £100.
Mr M was unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He wants UKI to remove the 
incident from his record as this has increased the cost of his insurance. 
Our Investigator looked into matters and thought it fair and reasonable for UKI to record the 
incident once it was made aware of it and for this to remain on Mr Ms record. However, they 
accepted UKI failed to close the claim within 90 days as it shouldve where no contact from a 
third party had been made. But they considered UKI recognised the impact of this by 
sending Mr M a cheque for £100. So, they didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. Mr M disagreed. He says UKI should remove the incident from his record as he feels 
this is still impacting his premium and will continue to do so for the next five years. 
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr M that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont require UKI to do anything further to put things right. Ill explain why.
After finding out the premium quoted had increased significantly, I can see why Mr M would 
want to understand the reasons for this. And, after the complaint was made, UKI realised it 
had got something wrong - it hadnt closed the claim when it should have. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
mistake had on the consumer. 
 
Like all motor insurance policies on the market, Mr Ms insurance policy required him to 
report any accident to it as quickly as possible. Having been required to report the incident, 
UKI was then obliged to record this on the insurance database - known as the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE). So, even if Mr M had known this could impact his premium at 
renewal, he had already notified UKI of the incident  as he was required to do. And UKI had 
recorded it on CUE - as it was required to do. In light of this, I cant say UKI did anything 
wrong in recording the incident on CUE even if this could impact the cost of motor insurance 
for Mr M in the future. It follows I wont be telling it to remove the incident from CUE.
That said, the incident status was incorrectly left as an open claim for longer than it 
shouldve been, and this was only changed after Mr M complained. UKI shouldve updated 
this sooner than it did, but I consider its payment of £100 to recognise the impact this had to 
be a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
I havent seen any evidence Mr M paid for a policy which  incorrectly  cost more because 
of this mistake. If he did, as the Investigator suggested, Mr M can contact his new insurer to 
let it know the incident has been updated to notification only on CUE and ask it to 
recalculate the annual premium - with the correct information - from the start of the policy. If 
Mr Ms new insurer reasonably requires a letter from UKI, it should provide this to him. 
However, I think it likely an insurer would be willing to accept UKIs final response letter or 
this decision to confirm the claim from May 2022 shouldve been closed sooner than it was 
(by the end of August 2022) and changed to a notification only record on CUE with Mr Ms 
NCD allowed, as is now shown on CUE.
UKI corrected the open status of the claim and paid Mr M £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay in doing so. I think this was a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve the complaint in all the circumstances and dont require UKI to do anything further.
   
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with UKI  can do for him.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint in this matter. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
19 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman