DRN-3263018
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Trading 212 UK Limited closed his Contracts for Differences (CFD) 
trading account and his share-dealing account in 2021. He said this caused him financial 
loss and distress and hed like compensation. 
What happened
On 20 August 2021 Trading 212 wrote to Mr M and explained that it had made a business 
decision to close all Mr Ms trading accounts in 30 days. It referred to the terms of the 
agreement it had with Mr M and explained that Mr M would not be able to open any new 
positions, and would have to close existing positions himself within the notice period or they 
would be closed on 20 September 2021.
There followed some correspondence between Mr M and Trading 212, during which Mr M 
raised concerns about the account closure and his objections to it. He was given more time 
to manage his existing positions himself, but by 11 October 2021 he had not taken action to 
close all his open trades. As a result, Trading 212 notified him on the day that it would 
proceed to close his trades for him. Mr M disagreed and argued that as the original 30 days 
period had passed, Trading 212 had to give him another 30 days to close his account. 
However, Trading 212 didnt agree it had to do this, and proceeded to close his open trades 
on 11 October 2021.   
During this time Trading 212 looked into Mr Ms complaint about the account closure, but 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In short, it said that it had acted in line with the 
terms and given him the required notice. It also confirmed that hed be given an extension to 
the 30 days  but that his account would eventually be closed. Mr M disagreed, and once all 
his positions were closed in October 2021, referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said that Trading 212 was entitled under the terms and conditions of the account to 
close it by giving him 30 days notice. This is what happened. She said that Mr M had 
sufficient time to be able to manage his open positions and potentially close them and open 
them elsewhere. The fact that he chose not to do this and wait until Trading 212 closed them 
on his behalf, as it said it was going to do, meant that Trading 212s actions were not 
unreasonable. She therefore didnt agree that Mr M had been treated unfairly or that Trading 
212 needed to pay compensation. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter so the case was passed 
to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this issue  and particularly his concern that the 
closure of his account was linked to previous complaints he had made to the business about 
it. However, Im sorry that I dont have much to add to what the investigator has told him. I 
dont agree that Mr M has been discriminated against nor that Trading 212 has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
Mr M had a share dealing and CFD trading account. The share dealing accounts terms said:
28.2: Unless otherwise required by Applicable law, either party may terminate this 
Agreement by giving written notice of termination to the other. Termination will be 
effective as of the date set out in that notice. 
His CFD trading account terms said:
20.2: Either of us may terminate this Agreement;
20.2.1: by the written consent of both of us; or
20.2.2: by either of us giving the other fourteen (14) days prior notice in writing and 
you acknowledge that if you have open positions, we shall have the right to close 
them. We are not obliged to provide any grounds for such termination. 
When Mr M chose to open his account with Trading 212, he was required to agree to the 
terms it gave him  including the above. This means that he agreed to his account being 
terminated by Trading 212 as long as it gave him the required notice period. 
I note that Mr M has tried to argue that by not keeping to the original 30 days, a new notice 
would need to be sent  but I dont agree thats what the terms say, and Im not persuaded it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect that in these circumstances. 
Trading 212 had already made the decision to close his account when it wrote to him. It did 
not need to give him a reason, but it did need to give him a minimum notice period. I can see 
that it did this. It has explained that part of the reason for extending that period was because 
of Mr Ms complaint, which it felt duty bound to respond to before closing Mr Ms account  
and I find that fair and reasonable. 
In that response Mr M was given additional time which he did not use. There was then a 
further amount of time from 28 September 2021 to 11 October 2021, during which Mr M 
continued to take no action on his account. In my view, from 28 September 2021, it was 
entirely up to Trading 212 to decide when it would proceed to close Mr Ms open trades  
unless of course he decided to do so himself. 
The key issue here is that Mr M had almost two months to manage his open positions  and 
I note that in his own words, some of them were due to be profitable at the end of September 
and that was what originally had concerned him. And yet when that timeframe passed, he 
still did not take any action. This means that I dont agree that Trading 212 caused him any 
losses  in my view it was up to Mr M to manage his positions, and if he had trades that he 
wanted to be kept open beyond the deadline he was given, he needed to take action to close 
those trades himself and open them elsewhere. Whether or not he chose to do this was a 
matter for him and not something Trading 212 had any influence over. 
Ultimately by 11 October 2021 Im persuaded it was fair and reasonable for Trading 212 to 
conclude that Mr M was not going to close his trades himself. As a result, Im satisfied that 
Trading 212 was entitled under the terms to close his trades and therefore close his account 
as it had told him it would do. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied Trading 212 has done nothing wrong in this case and is not required to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 07 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman