DRN-3982631
The complaint
Mr D complains about how The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has handled a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse his 
costs and review its liability decision.
What happened
Mr Ds car was damaged by a neighbours trees in a storm and Mr D made a claim to NFU. 
He was unhappy that NFU wouldnt consider the claim under his buildings insurance policy. 
He was unhappy with the repairs to his car. And he was unhappy that he hadnt been 
provided with a courtesy car during all the claim period. 
NFU said the claim would be on Mr Ds motor insurance policy and it would be recorded as a 
fault as it couldnt recover its costs. Mr D thought NFU should pursue his neighbour for its 
costs. NFU thought it wouldnt be able to prove that the neighbour had been negligent. But it 
did offer to send an assessor to inspect the site, however Mr D declined this offer. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought NFU 
was entitled to deal with the claim under the motor insurance policy. She thought NFU had 
reasonably decided to hold Mr D liable for the claim. And she thought it had listened to his 
concerns and reasonably offered to send an assessor to inspect the site. 
She thought NFU had responded to Mr Ds complaint about the initial repairs to his car and 
he was now out of time to bring this complaint to us. She said Mr D could complain about the 
later repairs and the courtesy car. But he would need to raise this with NFU as a separate 
complaint to give it a chance to respond.  
Mr D replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D complained about the repairs to his car. But where a business doesnt agree, Im not 
allowed to consider a complaint which is referred to our service more than six months after 
the date the final response letter is sent. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R (1) can be found in 
the regulators handbook of rules and guidance:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication.
NFU issued its final response letter to Mr D on 9 March 2022. Ive looked at a copy of this 
letter. I can see that NFU explained that Mr D had six months in which to bring his complaint 
to our service and it gave him our contact details. NFU also said:
If you do not refer your complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not have our permission to 
consider your complaint and so will only be able to do so in very limited circumstances. For 
example, if the Ombudsman believes that the delay was because of exceptional 
circumstances.
So Im satisfied that Mr D had until 6 September 2022 to bring his complaint to us. As Mr D 
referred his complaint to us on 4 November 2022, and NFU hasnt agreed to us looking at it, 
Im satisfied that it was referred too late.
I can look at a complaint thats referred late if exceptional circumstances are responsible for 
the delay. Mr D has explained that he thought the dispute with NFU was still ongoing. But Im 
satisfied that this isnt an exceptional circumstance. Mr D could have referred his complaint 
to us while he continued his dispute with NFU. So I cant consider Mr Ds complaint about 
the initial repairs to his car.
Mr D made a further complaint to NFU, and it responded on 22 July 2022. Mr D referred this 
complaint to us in time and so I can consider this here. Mr D complained about NFUs 
liability decision and that it wouldnt pursue his neighbour for its costs. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr D the same as someone else in his position. 
NFU is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr D to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr D has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
In this case. NFU explained that many trees had come down in the storm on the neighbours 
property. It decided that it wouldnt be able to prove in court that the neighbour had been 
negligent. And so it decided it wouldnt be able to recover its costs. I think that was fair and 
reasonable and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that a 
fault claim was correctly recorded against Mr D. 
I think NFU fairly considered Mr Ds concerns and offered to send an assessor to view the 
site and discuss his options. But I cant see that Mr D accepted this offer. 
Mr D thought the claim should be dealt with under his buildings insurance which is also held 
with NFU. But I think its for NFU to decide on its processes and so I cant say that it was 
wrong to deal with the claim under Mr Ds motor insurance policy. 
Mr D has raised further concerns about the provision of a courtesy car whilst his car was 
being repaired. He said he had to buy a replacement car because of the delays in the claim. 
But I cant see that NFU has provided a response to Mr Ds complaint about this. And I cant 
consider this concern until it has had a chance to respond. If Mr D then remains unhappy, he 
can bring his further complaint to us. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman