DRN-2047191
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of his business, which Ill call M, that Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited wont refund £15,000 made from its account, which he says he didnt authorise.
The account is an ANNA account issued by Wirecard. All references to Wirecard should be 
taken to include ANNA. 
What happened
In March 2019, M was the victim of a scam. Its not in dispute that what happened was an 
act of fraud. So I have used the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party 
involved. 
From all the information provided, heres my understanding of what happened. 
The fraudster, purporting to be a telecom service providers technical support team, called 
Mr R, on his landline, on 29 March 2019. Mr R explains although his internet is provided by 
another business, it runs on the telecom providers network. He has had previous dealings 
with the telecom provider when there have been internet and phoneline problems. He 
therefore didnt think it strange to receive a call from the telecom provider. 
The fraudster explained Mr Rs IP address had been hacked and he was asked to follow a 
number of instructions, including the downloading of a number of apps to his mobile phone. 
This included a well-known anti-virus app, so he thought the instructions were legitimate; the 
fraudster indicated this anti-virus software was something the telecom company also used. 
Mr R was asked to check his accounts, including his Wiredcard account. He did so by 
opening his mobile phone apps for the accounts. Mr R says the call was long and he was 
asked to carry out a number of steps which meant going to and from his home screen.  
Because of the length of the call Mr R needed to charge his mobile phone, and so this was 
placed on charge while his discussion with the fraudster continued. Mr Rs apps were still 
open during this time and unbeknownst to Mr R, the fraudster was carrying out transactions 
on his apps. 
 
The transactions were as follows:
11.25 am £7,000 DREZALIU successful
12.28 pm £8,000 DREZALIU successful
12.33 pm £7,000 A WALKER declined
Total loss £15,000
The transaction attempted at 12.33 pm was declined as M had a daily transaction limit on 
the account of £15,000. 
Just over an hour later, Mr R realised the account had been accessed and transactions 
made without his authority. He notified Wiredcard and completed the disputes form for the 
matter to be looked into. Wirecard sent an indemnity to the receiving bank asking for the 
funds to be returned some months later. 
Wirecard declined to refund the transactions to M. It doesnt believe it is at fault in this and 
further it thinks Mr R was grossly negligent, firstly in believing the caller was an employee of 
the telecom company without verifying that and allowing himself to be manipulated into 
downloading software onto his phone without making any basic enquiries. He also left the 
account app open; Mr R didnt question how the fraudster would have known he had an 
account with it, or that it had been hacked. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She made reference to the terms and conditions of 
the account to show the transactions hadnt been authorised. She also concluded Mr R, on 
behalf of M, hadnt failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep the personalised security details safe. She required the transactions be 
reimbursed plus 8% simple interest. 
Wirecard considers the complaint to have been pre-determined as when it was asked for its 
side of things, an investigator indicated that the services approach to unauthorised scams is 
to ask for a refund of the transactions. It also said the request for a refund was made to 
ANNA and not it. It says:
It contests that acts of negligence are to be considered on a case by case basis and 
that it is ultimately for a court to decide whether an act is grossly negligent. 
In UK civil law negligence is defined as any act or omission which fall short of a 
standard to be expected of the reasonable man. For a claim of negligence to 
succeed, it is necessary to establish that a duty of care is owed by the defendant to 
the claimant, that duty was breached, and the loss was caused by that breach and 
that it was a foreseeable consequence. 
Under those circumstances, a persons act or omission either falls short of the 
reasonable man, or it does not. It cannot grossly fall short of that of a reasonable 
man, it simply cannot be defined. 
The failure to keep security details safe is negligence, under the Payment Services 
Regulation 2017 recital 77 (3)(b) he is liable for all losses incurred as he failed under 
recital 72(3) to take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised security 
credentials relating to a payment instruction or an account information service. 
It doesnt agree with the addition of interest as there is no evidence of wrongdoing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wirecard has argued that Mr R has never asked it for a refund, the request was made to 
ANNA. I disagree, under ANNAs term and conditions we, us or our is defined as Wirecard 
Card Solutions Limited. So by asking ANNA for a refund, Wirecard was being asked for a 
refund.  
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account; relevant 
law and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and 
where relevant what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times. 
The fraud took place in March 2019, so of particular relevance to my decision are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017), which apply to transfers like the ones made from Ms account. Ive considered the relevant provisions of the PSRs 2017 alongside 
the terms of the ANNA account. 
Taking those into account there are two key questions relevant to my consideration:
1. Were the transactions authorised by Mr R, on behalf of M? and;
2. If they werent, did Mr R fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under the PSRs 2017  to comply with the terms and conditions of 
the account, or to keep the personalised security details safe?
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr R, on behalf of M?
Regulation 67 of the PSRs 2017 says that the payer must give consent and it must be given 
in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its 
payment service provider. The payment service directive, which the PSRs 2017 implement, 
says that in the absence of such consent, a payment transaction shall be considered 
unauthorised. 
Given the fraudulent transactions were made via Ms account, Ive considered the relevant 
provisions of ANNAs terms and conditions to determine what the agreed form and 
procedure is for such payments to be made. Wirecard didnt provide a copy of the terms and 
conditions and so the investigator relied on those available on-line. Wirecard hasnt disputed 
those are the terms which apply. The terms are very limited in this area but say:
7.8 We will treat a payment as authorised by the Account Manager and genuine if:
(a) The transaction was authorised from the Self Service Account Management 
Portal;
(b) The Account Manager has set up any Automatic Payments. 
Account Manager is defined as the individual aged 18 or above elected by the Institution to 
be responsible for the management of the account  that would be Mr R. Self Service 
Account Management Portal is defined as a mobile App or online portal that allows you to 
have access to your account, and functions such as receiving support, submitting 
Information and forms and filing complaints. 
The terms and conditions dont go any further than the above to explain how a transaction is 
authorised from the App. Our understanding of the process, which hasnt been disputed by 
Wirecard, is:
open the App
navigate the App to make payments
select a past beneficiary to make a payment to, or set up a new beneficiary by 
entering the sort code, account number and reference;
enter the amount to be paid
submit the payment request.
There is no dispute that Mr R opened the app, on instruction of the fraudster.  But he did not 
complete any of the remaining steps himself; he didnt set up a new beneficiary, or their 
account details and he didnt submit the payment requests himself. As Mr R didnt complete 
any of the steps, bar the first one, it follows that Mr R didnt give consent for the payments in 
the form and procedure required.  The payments were therefore unauthorised. Did Mr R, on behalf of M, fail with intent or gross negligence, to comply with the terms 
and conditions of the account, or keep the personalised security details safe?
The terms and conditions of the account say:
11.4 In the event that we have a reason to believe that either you or the Cardholder 
have acted in connection with a Prohibited Activity or Prohibited Purpose, or have 
acted with gross negligence or intentionally failing to notify us of the lost or stolen 
Card or the Cardholder has failed to keep his Card or security information related to 
the Account safe or you or the Cardholder have breached this Agreement then you 
shall be liable for all losses.  
13.5 You will be liable for all transactions made from your Account(s);
(a) if you, the account manager or the cardholder have acted in connection with a 
Prohibited Activity or Prohibited Purpose; or
(b)if the transaction was made because the Cardholder deliberately or with gross 
negligence failed to keep his Card or Card details secure, or his PIN or other 
security information related to the Account secret.
PSRs 2017say:
72 (3) The payment service user must take all reasonable steps to keep safe 
personalised security credentials relating to a payment instrument or an account 
information service. 
77 (3) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised 
payment transaction where the payer-
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence failed to comply with regulation 72 
(obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment 
instruments and personalised security details). 
Wirecard hasnt suggested that Mr R failed to comply with the terms of the account or the 
PSRs 2017 with intent, so I will only address this point briefly. 
Intent isnt defined within the PSRs 2017. Ill therefore apply the natural meaning of intent  
that being something you want or plan to do; a deliberate act. The question I need to 
consider is whether Mr R appreciated that his actions or inactions meant he wasnt 
complying with the terms and conditions of his account and/or that he appreciated he wasnt 
taking all reasonable steps to keep his personalised security features safe. 
Mr R thought downloading the apps suggested by the fraudster were for the protection of his 
account(s). He didnt recognise that hed given access to his mobile account apps when 
doing so. Mr Rs intention was to protect his account(s), I think thats the opposite of saying 
Mr R realised he wasnt complying with the terms of the account or keeping his security 
information safe  which is what would be needed to say he acted with intent.  
I turn now to whether Mr R acted with gross negligence. Gross negligence isnt defined 
within the account terms and conditions. Although I agree that any assessment of gross 
negligence should be on a case by case basis, I find Wirecards arguments in this regard 
odd; not only because the concept features in the terms and conditions of the account but 
because on the one hand it suggests that whether an act is grossly negligent is for a court to decide, but on the other that an act or omission cannot fall grossly short of that of a 
reasonable man. These arguments arent compatible with one another. 
The concept of gross negligence is not novel, or new. It appears in both PSRs 2009 and 
2017. So its clear that ones acts or omissions can be considered grossly negligent. 
Recital 72 of the second Payment Services Directive says:
"In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the 
payment service user account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The 
evidence and degree of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated according 
to national law. However while the concept of negligence implies a breach of a duty 
of care, gross negligence should mean more than mere negligence, involving 
conduct exhibiting a significant degree of carelessness, for example keeping the 
credentials used to authorise a payment transaction beside the payment instrument 
in a format that is open and easily detectable by third parties..."
The FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
says:
"... we interpret "gross negligence" to be a higher standard than the standard of 
negligence under common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant 
degree of carelessness."
When considering gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis (The "Ardent") [1997] said: 
"If the matter is viewed according to purely English principles of construction, ... 
"Gross" negligence is clearly intended to represent something more fundamental 
than failure to exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence... as a matter 
of ordinary language and general impression, the concept of gross negligence seems 
to me capable of embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of 
the risks involved, but also serious disregard [sic] of or indifference to an obvious 
risk."
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. And, as I have 
described above, the use of 'gross negligence', rather than mere 'negligence', suggests a 
lack of care that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness. 
So I have to consider whether Mr Rs actions fell so far below the standard of a reasonable 
person that he failed with gross negligence to keep his personalised security details safe or 
to comply with his account terms and conditions.
Ive considered the context of the call.  Mr R had previous calls with the telecom provider 
about both internet and phone line problems. And Mr Rs internet provider is part of that 
overall telecom group. So I dont think Mr R would have had cause to doubt that he was 
being called by the genuine telecom provider. 
Mr R had been told that his IP address had been hacked. An IP address is a numerical label, 
or identifying number, that is associated with a specific device or network. He was told that 
the technician had intercepted somebody hacking into his IP address and he needed to 
download several security apps to resolve the issue and help trace the hacker.
Mr R followed those instructions and downloaded several apps, including one from a well-
known anti-virus software provider.  And the fraudster told him the telecom provider also 
used this software  so Mr R thought this was a legitimate way to resolve the hacking.  The fraudster also told Mr R to check his accounts for any fraudulent transactions which he did 
by opening his mobile apps. 
Its important to consider what Mr R did in light of his reasonable belief that he was talking 
with someone from a well-known and reputable telecom provider, and a business he had 
dealt with before. Most people arent experts in cyber security and tend to trust the advice of 
professionals  after all, without their own knowledge and expertise its difficult to question. 
That willingness to trust and heed professional advice is heightened when people are told of 
risks to their personal information, or money, if they dont take action. In this context, Im not 
satisfied Mr Rs actions  downloading the apps and leaving his mobile apps open - 
amounted to gross negligence. He followed the instructions of who he thought was an expert 
in these matters, because he believed Ms money was at risk from unknown third parties  I 
think a lot of people would have done the same thing. 
This scam had clearly been thought through and was designed to socially engineer Mr R into 
following the fraudsters instructions. Thats clear from the length of the call (which can be 
seen from the time between transactions) and that Mr R was constantly asked to navigate 
between the apps and his home screen, so much so that he needed to recharge his mobile 
phone. All the while the fraudster kept Mr R talking on his landline. 
Wirecard has argued that telephone scams arent a new phenomenon and are widely 
publicised in advertisements and highlighted in television programmes. I have thought 
carefully about this, and I agree with its comments. But I dont think that means Mr R has 
acted with gross negligence. I think in the moment when someone has been socially 
engineered into believing there is a risk to their information and/or money, remembering 
details of adverts or programmes is likely to be far from a persons thoughts; rather they are 
likely to be in a state of panic and will follow the instructions given in order to stop being 
hacked. Im not persuaded Mr R knew the fraudster had access to his mobile phone, or 
therefore, his mobile apps. I dont think there was an obvious risk that hed compromised his 
account and M could lose money.  
Im satisfied gross negligence should mean a very significant degree of carelessness, 
involving a serious disregard or indifference to an obvious risk. This is a high bar, it isnt 
enough to say Mr R was grossly negligent simply because in the middle of a sophisticated 
scam he downloaded some apps and left his mobile apps open. Im not persuaded his 
actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would do in the circumstances to amount 
to gross negligence. I think a lot of people would have reacted in a similar way to how Mr R 
did here. 
Wirecard has argued that it doesnt believe it (ANNA) has done anything wrong and doesnt 
understand why Mr R believes it is responsible.  But it is missing the point. Regulation 76 of 
the PSRs 2017 says:
(1) subject to regulations 74 and 75, where an executed payment transaction was 
not authorised in accordance with regulation 67 (consent and withdrawal of 
consent), the payment service provider must-
(a) refund the amount of unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
I have concluded above that Mr R didnt authorise the payments and so under the PSRs 
2017, the starting position is that Wirecard should refund the transactions. This doesnt apply 
if, as set out above, regulation 77(3) applies. And I have found that it doesnt. 
Under the PSRs 2017 M can be held liable for the first £35 of losses incurred as a result of 
unauthorised payments. However, this would need to be set out in the terms and conditions 
of the account, and it isnt, so I dont think it would be fair for Wirecard to rely on that here. Wirecard has further argued that it doesnt believe 8% should be payable when it hasnt 
done anything wrong. However, as set out above, that starting position is that the payment 
service provider  Wirecard - should refund unauthorised transactions. It was notified of the 
fraudulent transactions within a matter of hours. And M has been without the use of that 
money for some time. Our usual approach when there has been a loss of use of funds is to 
award 8% simple interest per annum from the date of loss to the date of reimbursement, I 
see no reason to depart from that here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to:
refund M the unauthorised transactions of £15,000
pay M 8% simple interest per annum on that sum from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. 
If Wirecard considers that its required to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell M 
how much its taken off. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman