DRN-1278713
Complaint 
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 1996. 
Background 
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed with that view. 
In summary, he said: 
He did not agree that the cover had been sold during a meeting and he had applied 
for his credit card through the post; 
Although some boxes have been ticked on the original application form, Mr L had 
examined those with a magnifying glass and the ticks in the PPI box were different to 
the other ticks on the form; and 
He had never received a key facts document from Barclays so the terms and 
conditions of the cover could not have been made clear to him. 
 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I havent upheld his complaint. I will explain why below. 
The first thing for me to determine is the way this policy was sold to Mr L. Barclays told us 
that it wasnt clear whether hed bought the cover in branch or by post. Looking at the 
application form, the method of sale isnt clear. Throughout his correspondence, Mr L was 
adamant that he had applied for his credit card by post. So, Ive accepted what Mr L told us 
and Ive treated this as a postal sale. 
Ive looked at whether Mr L would have known the PPI was optional and he didnt have to 
buy this cover if he didnt want it. As this was a postal sale, I think Mr L would have been 
able to read the application form in his own time and at his own pace. 
Upon considering the application form, I think it would have been clear to Mr L that he had a 
choice about PPI. I say this because there were two equally prominent boxes to tick about 
the cover  one to say Mr L wanted cover and another to say he did not. I can see that the 
box to request cover has been selected. 
Ive thought about Mr Ls argument that he had not ticked the relevant box and that the 
handwriting appeared to be different on that part of the form. However, I dont accept that a 
tick was added after Mr L sent his application to Barclays. If he didnt want PPI cover, I would expect him to have ticked the no box. That section is blank, suggesting that the 
person who completed the form selected yes. 
I appreciate that Mr L said that he didnt receive a welcome pack from Barclays. However, 
the PPI payments would have shown on his credit card statements. So, if Mr L was paying 
for a policy that he knew nothing about, I think he would have queried this at the time. The 
evidence before me doesnt suggest he did. And I can see from the evidence that Barclays 
sent to us that the cover was not cancelled until the credit card account was closed in or 
around 2005. 
I appreciate that what Mr L told us is what he honestly recalls about the PPI sale. But it is 
difficult to remember precisely what happened over 20 years ago, which is when this policy 
was sold. Taking account of the evidence before me, I appreciate Mr L doesnt now 
remember, but I think he chose to buy this cover at the time. I think hed have known he 
could refuse it if he didnt want it. 
As this was a postal sale, Barclays didnt advise Mr L to buy PPI. But it still had to make sure 
that he had enough information about the cover so he could decide for himself whether it 
was a good fit for his needs. That information should have been fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
I have a copy of the application form, so I can be satisfied about the information that would 
have been presented to him. From that form, I dont think its clear that Mr L would have to 
pay for the cover or that he would have to pay interest on his premiums if he didnt repay his 
balance in full. Overall, I think the information about the PPI could have been better. 
So the question for me now is whether Mr L would have acted differently if Barclays had told 
him everything about the cover that it should have done. To help me decide what hes likely 
to have done, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also thought about 
what Mr L told us about his personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if Mr L made a PPI claim, 10% of his credit card balance would have been 
repaid for every month he was out of work up to a maximum 12 months. Looking at the 
information Mr L provided about his sick pay, I think the cover would have lasted for longer 
than his full sick pay. And it would have also paid out in addition to that. 
Mr L told us that he was in good health when he bought the PPI cover. So I dont think hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent 
seen anything unusual about his circumstances that would have stopped him from being 
able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I can see how PPI could have been helpful for Mr L at what would 
have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he was out of work. I appreciate he 
doesnt now remember, but I think he chose to buy this cover  so it looks as though he 
wanted this type of insurance at the time. Taking account of all the evidence, I dont think Mr 
L would have acted differently if Barclays had told him everything it should have done about 
the PPI. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr L. But for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld his complaint. 
 
My final decision I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman