DRN-3838479
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the charges Ald Automotive Limited trading as Kia Contract Hire (Ald 
Automotive) applied, when he handed back a car he acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr C entered into hire agreement to acquire a brand new car. The car was 
collected in May 2022 by Ald Automotives recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
An inspection was carried out at Mr Cs property by B. It noted one service was missing and 
said the following damage, totalling £220, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Bumper front  right corner scratched - £65
2. Left hand sill  dented - £155
Mr C complained to Ald Automotive. 
Ald Automotive issued its response to Mr Cs complaint and said the damage to the bumper 
front and left hand sill was correctly charged. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He said Ald Automotive was 
charging him despite its handbook saying it wouldnt charge for minor imperfections. He said 
had he known it would be chargeable, he could have attempted to repair the damage prior to 
collection. He said he wanted Ald Automotive to waive the charges. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said the charges were applied fairly in line 
with the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) 
fair wear and tear guidelines. She said she accepted that Mr C could have repaired the fault, 
but he had an opportunity to do this before returning the car.
Mr C disagreed. He said he didnt dispute the front bumper damage and he was happy to 
cover the cost of it. However, he said the BVRLA guidance didnt detail specifically what was 
acceptable and what wasnt in terms of size and type of damage. He said he didnt think the 
guidance was clear. 
As Mr C remains in disagreement, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Mr C isnt disputing the damage to the front bumper and so, this decision wont comment on 
this damage. Instead, it will only focus on the damage to the left hand sill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Cs complaint against 
Ald Automotive.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. Ald Automotive is a member of the BVRLA.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs hire agreement explain that Mr C agreed to maintain the 
bodywork and the exterior and interior of the car in a good condition. The terms and 
conditions confirm that Ald Automotive use the criteria set out in the BVRLAs guidelines to 
determine what fair wear and tear is. 
The BVRLA says for damage to the door aperture, boot, boot liner and luggage area:
Scratches on treads, sills and seals that reflect normal use are acceptable.
I acknowledge what Mr C has said about the clarity of the BVRLA guidance. The BVRLA 
guidance around sills only says that scratches that reflect normal use are acceptable. It 
doesnt say any other type of damage is acceptable. So I think the guidance is clear as it 
sets out what is acceptable. The BVRLA glossary defines the word scratch as A mark or 
score with raised edges in the surface material glass or paintwork. So Ive kept this in mind 
when considering whether I think Ald Automotive has fairly applied any damage charges. 
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the left hand door sill where damage was 
identified by B. The photograph shows damage that is around 10mm which has penetrated 
the surface paint. Having thought about this carefully, I dont think the damage is 
representative of a scratch that reflects normal use. I think the damage is more 
representative of a dent, which isnt acceptable as per the guidelines. And so, Im satisfied 
Ald Automotive is entitled to charge Mr C for the damage to the left hand door sill as it falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Mr C says he would have repaired the damage to the door sill had he known it wouldnt be 
considered as fair wear and tear. I dont dispute that Mr C would have likely done this. 
However, Mr C was provided with a copy of the BVRLA guidelines and it would have been 
down to Mr C to carry out any repairs before the car was collected by B. So, I dont think Ald 
Automotive did anything wrong when it identified damage that fell outside fair wear and tear 
and didnt provide Mr C with an opportunity to repair it. It follows that I dont think Ald 
Automotive need to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman