DRN-3104718
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, blocked and then closed his 
accounts  and applied a fraud marker against his name.
What happened
Mr C had a current account with Halifax which he opened in September 2019. To help prove 
his address, Mr C gave Halifax an energy bill. A few weeks later, Mr C opened a help to buy 
ISA. This account would allow Mr C to receive a 25% bonus from the Government, up to a 
maximum of £3,000 towards the purchase of his first home.
But in December 2019, Mr C received a large payment. Halifax had concerns about this 
payment. It also checked the energy bill  and suspected it was fake. Halifax then blocked 
access to Mr Cs accounts.
Mr C says he then contacted Halifax. He says he was asked to go to a branch with proof that 
his energy bill was genuine. But after he did this, he was told the decision to close his 
accounts was final. He was given two months notice  and the blocks on his account 
remained in place until the account finally closed in February 2020.
Mr C then tried to open a new account with another bank. The application was rejected  
Mr C was told this was because of information on his credit file. Mr C checked this, and 
learned that Halifax had filed an entry with the Cifas national fraud database.
Unhappy with all of this, Mr C complained to Halifax. He says that because Halifax closed 
his ISA he lost the chance to claim under the Governments help to buy scheme. He says he 
wasnt able to access his funds until Halifax released the funds to him in March 2020. Hes 
also unhappy that the marker prevented him opening new accounts elsewhere.
Halifax looked into this. It agreed that it could have explained things better  in particular, 
Mr C had attended the branch when he didnt need to. So it offered to pay Mr C £75 for the 
inconvenience this caused. But it didnt agree the complaint about the Cifas entry or the 
account closure should be upheld. Dissatisfied, Mr C referred the complaint to us.
One of our ombudsmen issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 March 2022. 
She said that, based on what shed seen, the complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax 
should pay Mr C £1,100 to compensate him for missing out on the government bonus from 
the Help to Buy ISA. She thought Halifax should also pay Mr C £620 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the matter caused him,
Halifax agreed with this. Mr C agreed with parts of the decision, but thought we should 
award more compensation for the inconvenience Halifax caused  and also suggested 
Halifax should pay simple interest on the £1,100.
The other ombudsman is not in a position to issue the final decision. The complaint has 
therefore been referred to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like Halifax are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means they need to monitor customers accounts and transactions, and 
may need to block or review an account at any time.
In this case, Halifax had concerns after Mr C received a payment of around £5,200. It also 
believed that the document Mr C had used to open the account was false. Thinking about all 
of this, I note that the payment was a lot larger than any of the payments into the account up 
until that point. Weve also asked Halifax about the energy bill  it says there were issues 
with the barcode of the front of the bill.
With all this in mind, I cant say Halifax acted unreasonably in their initial decision to block 
and review Mr Cs account. I dont doubt that what happened was stressful  Mr C says he 
was overseas when this happened. And I recognise that Mr C doesnt think there was 
anything particularly unusual about this payment into the account, given his business. But 
Im satisfied that Halifax was acting in line with its regulatory and legal requirements at the 
point it reviewed the account.
Halifax then carried out its review. It completed this on 20 January 2020. I appreciate this 
took a little while to complete, but based on what Ive seen, I cant say the delay was 
unreasonable. But it doesnt appear that Halifax told Mr C that the review was complete. This 
means Mr C didnt withdraw his funds until March 2020. Halifax has agreed to pay £70 for 
the trouble and upset this caused.
Ive next considered Halifaxs decision to close Mr Cs accounts. I note that Halifax gave 
Mr C 60 days notice that his accounts would be closed. But as Halifax had blocked Mr Cs 
accounts, it had, in effect, closed the account immediately.
Halifax has explained this is because it believed Mr C had used a fraudulent document when 
he applied for the account. But we asked the energy provider about this bill, who said it was 
genuine. I recognise that the terms and conditions allowed Halifax to close any account by 
giving two months notice  without giving reasons. But in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Halifax treated Mr C fairly when it closed the account.
Ive therefore thought about the impact this all had on Mr C. 
First, I see that Mr C had £1,600 in his help to buy ISA  and was transferring £200 a month 
into the account. The account provided a government bonus if the savings were used to 
purchase a property. Mr C says he used the money to purchase his first home  in March 
2021. Given the money Mr C had in his account at the time the account closed and the 
amount he was saving each month, I think its likely that Mr C would have had £4.400 in his 
account when he purchased the property. I think hed most likely have been eligible for a 
government bonus of £1,100. I think Halifax should compensate him for this loss.
Mr C has asked if this includes simple interest to compensate him for the time hes been out 
of pocket. I can see that if hed had the bonus, he could have used this amount towards the 
cost of the property  rather than having to rely on his own funds. With this in mind, I 
contacted Halifax to see if theyd pay simple interest from the date Mr C bought the property 
 when hed have received the bonus - until the date Mr C gets it back.
Ive also thought about the information Halifax registered with the national fraud database. I acknowledge that Halifax believed that Mr C had provided a fraudulent document. But the 
business that had issued the document has said that its genuine. I havent seen anything to 
show that Halifax checked the bill with the utility company. I note Mr C insisted the bill was 
genuine and tried to get confirmation of this from the energy company. So I think further 
checks would have been reasonable. Im mindful that the Cifas principles say that members 
should only record information where there are reasonable grounds to believe that a 
financial crime has been committed and that the evidence is such that the matter could be 
reported to the police  and Halifax needed to carry out checks to meet this requirement. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax had cause to register the marker.
I note that following our involvement, Halifax agreed to remove the marker, which it did in 
September 2021.
My colleague recommended Halifax pay £150 for the immediate account closure and a 
further £400 to reflect the impact of the fraud marker. Along with the £70 for not telling Mr C 
that Halifax had closed the account, this added to £620 in total. Mr C says he instead thinks 
he should be paid £10,000. Ive thought about this.
Where I award compensation for distress and inconvenience, this isnt to punish the 
business but to reflect the impact its actions had on the consumer. I see what Halifax did 
caused Mr C considerable distress, upset and worry over many months. Mr C has explained 
that he was unable to apply for new bank accounts. He says it also caused him anxiety each 
time he contacted financial institutions or other professionals. He says he involved solicitors 
to try and resolve matters. And I note Halifax only reviewed matters following our 
involvement, despite Mr C having tried to provide additional information.
That said, Mr C was able to take steps to mitigate the impact this had on him. He says he 
was able to arrange for important bills to be paid from the accounts of friends and family. 
And I note that, in spite of the fraud marker, Mr C was nevertheless still able to apply for a 
mortgage when he bought his home in March 2021. 
So while I dont doubt that everything that happened was distressing for Mr C, Im not 
persuaded to award more for the inconvenience than my colleague already recommended. 
I note Mr Cs comments about Halifaxs processes and the impact they have on customers 
more generally. In this decision, however, I am just looking at the individual circumstances of 
Mr Cs complaint. Any concerns Mr C has more generally need to be raised with the 
regulator.
Putting things right
As explained above, Bank of Scotland plc should:
Pay Mr C £1,100 to compensate him for missing out on the government bonus from 
the Help to Buy Isa when Halifax closed his accounts.
Pay simple interest (the rate is 8% simple per year) on that amount from the date 
Mr C would have received the bonus until he gets the money back. Based on what 
Ive seen, Mr C bought the property on 5 March 2021. If HMRC requires Bank of 
Scotland plc to pay tax on that interest it should send Mr C a certificate showing how 
it worked this out, if Mr C asks for one.
Pay Mr C £620 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman