DRN-3794849
The complaint
Mr O has complained about his car insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
because it cancelled his policy, believing it had been fraudulently set up.
What happened
Mr O moved home in November 2021. In January he arranged cover for his car with 
Watford. In February Watford received information which made it think the policy had been 
set up fraudulently. Watford wrote to Mr O, asking him to show proof of his address  a bill or 
bank statement dated within the last three months. Mr O provided that detail, Watford wasnt 
happy with it  but didnt tell Mr O so, or ask him any further questions. Watford cancelled 
Mr Os policy. Mr O complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Watford had needed to respond to the fraud concerns  but that it hadnt 
adequately investigated them. Our Investigator felt that, as such, Watford had acted unfairly 
and unreasonably when cancelling the policy. So she said the record of Watfords 
cancellation should be removed, it should provide a letter explaining the cancellation had 
been a mistake, refund the £75.00 cancellation fee Mr O was charged and pay him £200 
compensation for the upset caused. 
Mr O was satisfied with the outcome. Watford agreed to our findings in part. But said it 
wouldnt say the cancellation had been a mistake or pay compensation. Watford said that 
was because it felt it had acted reasonably at the time given the details it had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Im in agreement with our Investigators findings. I think Watford acted 
unfairly and unreasonably here. Which means it should put Mr O, as closely as possible, 
back to the position hed have bene in, but for its unfair and unreasonable actions, and pay 
him compensation.
Watford, as does any insurer, will look to act when any detail is received that suggests that a 
fraud has occurred. That is entirely reasonable. And I have absolutely no issue with Watford 
having sought further detail from Mr O, or even in it advising that if this was not received that 
thee policy might be cancelled. The problem I have with what Watford did was that it 
received the detail requested, and then cancelled Mr Os policy anyway, without further 
notice or recourse to Mr O.
I know Watford says that the proof received was not enough  but that being the case it was 
for it to go back to Mr O and tell him that. Watford says that Mr O never explained to it that 
the bill he sent was his final bill from his old address, sent to his new address. But Watford 
didnt ask Mr O to explain any information he provided  it just asked for a bill, dated within 
the last three months, showing the current address. And that is exactly what the bill Mr O 
sent it did. And Mr O was not to know that this particular bill was not acceptable to Watford 
because it was a final bill showing usage and costs for his old property. So I think its 
reasonable that he just presented the bill without any explanation. In any event, it is quite 
normal for the last bill to be sent to the new property  it usually hasnt been created when 
the address changes because the user cant give their last meter reading until they move 
out. Id expect Watford to know that and, therefore, the reasonable reaction for it would have 
been to ask Mr O for more detail, not see it as corroborating proof that a fraud has likely 
occurred and cancel the policy. 
Im satisfied that, if Watford had asked Mr O for more proof hed have provided it. I know 
Watford is critical of the bills Mr O has recently provided  stating they wouldnt have been 
available at the time it cancelled the policy. But they do link Mr O to the property around the 
time the policy was arranged  and that satisfies me that if Watford had acted reasonably to 
ask Mr O for more detail in February 2021, hed have been able to give that. Not the bills 
recently provided  but he couldve obtained confirmation from the energy provider that he 
was the bill payer. There would likely have been other detail he could have provided too. The 
point here is that Watford, unfairly and unreasonably, did not give him the chance to do so.
Because of Watfords unfair and unreasonable actions Mr O was accused of or linked to a 
fraud and his policy was cancelled. He was charged a cancellation fee and suffered distress 
and inconvenience. So Watford needs to do what it can to put that right. In this case I think 
that fairly and reasonably includes a payment of £200 compensation. 
Putting things right
I require Watford to:
Amend its own and any industry records to show it did not cancel Mr Os policy and, 
likewise, ensure no fraud is logged against him by it in respect of this incident.
Provide Mr O a letter he can show in the future if necessary, explaining the cancellation 
was enacted in error by it and that records have since been updated.
Refund (or withdraw if Mr O hasnt paid it) the £75 cancellation fee Mr O was charged.
Pay Mr O £200 compensation for the upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman