DRN-3754617
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is recording incorrect information on his credit
file about a mortgage.
What happened
Mr M held a mortgage with Barclays. In 2014 he was made bankrupt. In 2015 he was
discharged from bankruptcy.
In 2019, the mortgage property was repossessed and it was sold with a shortfall in 2019.
Mr M complains that Barclays isnt recording correct information on his credit file. He said 
that the mortgage should be marked in default when he was made bankrupt  but Barclays 
insists that it should record i Mr Ms credit file for six years after the property was sold.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I wasnt proposing to uphold this complaint. My 
provisional findings, which form part of this decision, were:
Lenders are obliged to record true and accurate information about the conduct of 
mortgages on borrowers credit files. That is so prospective lenders can see information 
about borrowers creditworthiness.
The Information Commissioners Office issues the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies (the Principles), 
which sets out good practice for lenders in recording information on borrowers credit 
files.
The Principles set out when an account should usually be recorded as in default, to show 
that the relationship has broken down. That includes if the account has been included in a 
bankruptcy. The Principles also recognise that there is a difference between short-term 
unsecured and long-term secured debt in what would qualify as a default.
With unsecured debts, a bankruptcy will bring the relationship between borrower and 
lender to an end  that is clearly a default. But a bankruptcy wont always bring the 
relationship between borrower and secured creditor to an end. The borrower might want 
to retain the property. In order to realise its security, the lender will usually have to 
repossess the property and sell it. This is clearly a different situation than if the debt is 
unsecured.
Mr Ms position is that the mortgage was included in his bankruptcy  so Barclays should 
record the account as being in default in 2014.
Barclays position has been inconsistent: It initially told us that the that the mortgage never 
defaulted and was up to date when it was closed. It then said that the account was in 
arrears from March 2014 until April 2018 when the arrears were repaid, with no arrears 
until the mortgage was redeemed on 26 April 2019. It has now told us that it appointed Law 
of Property Act receivers and that the property was repossessed and sold at a shortfall. It 
should be much more straightforward for Barclays to explain what happened  and to 
provide all of the relevant evidence to support what it says, rather than partial extracts of 
information provided over the course of the complaint.
Nevertheless, both sides have been given a number of opportunities to make any 
submissions and arguments they wish. The evidence we have shows that the mortgage 
continued to be in arrears from Mr Ms bankruptcy in 2014 until 2018. The position after 
2018 isnt clear. But we know that in April 2015, Barclays appointed receivers and the 
property was repossessed by early 2019 and sold at a shortfall.
The receivers were acting on behalf of Mr M  they werent acting for Barclays. So they 
effectively continued the relationship between Mr M and Barclays on his behalf. Usually 
when a property is tenanted, the receiver will continue to collect rent and pay it directly to 
the lender. It appears that the account was brought up to date for a time. This suggests 
that the relationship hadnt broken down to the extent that it was effectively in default.
In any event, I think the key thing here is that this is a joint mortgage. Barclays has said 
that where there is a joint account it is unable to change the credit file entry for only one 
borrower. This is consistent with my understanding. If I were to order that Barclays change 
the credit file, it would effectively mean that the joint account holders credit file would also 
be amended. This doesnt seem fair bearing in mind they arent part of this complaint and 
we dont know what their financial position is, or how any change to their credit file would 
affect them.
So I dont consider that I could fairly conclude that Barclays should amend the credit file in 
the individual circumstances of a complaint. It has already offered Mr M £175 for the way it 
has handled this complaint. It is for Mr M to decide whether to accept that offer by 
contacting Barclays directly, if he hasnt done so already.
Barclays accepted my provisional findings. Mr M did not.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has presented any new evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change the findings I reached in my provisional decision, as 
set out above. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman