DRN-4138035
The complaint
Ms I complains about the service she received from Vitality Health Limited during a claim 
she made on her private health insurance policy.
What happened
Ms I had a private health insurance policy with Vitality since 23 June 2022. It was 
underwritten on a moratorium basis, which meant that pre-existing medical conditions that 
Ms I had in the five years before her cover started were excluded. However, these could 
become eligible for cover if Ms I hadnt received any treatment, advice or medication for 
those conditions for a continuous period of two years after taking out the policy.
Ms I had an appointment with Vitalitys virtual GP on 19 November 2022, and she received a 
referral for a chiropractor due to back pain. After chasing Vitality on this on 25 November 
2022, it said it would first need a claim form to be filled in by both Ms I and her GP before 
assessing the claim.
Vitality received an email from the GP on 1 December 2022, but it said it couldnt access the 
information as it was sent password protected. So, Vitality tried to phone the GP practice 
several times between 9 and 19 December 2022 to obtain the password. 
Ms I then obtained the GP records herself and sent these to Vitality on 14 December 2022, 
but it said it couldnt open this due to the format used to send it. Ms I cancelled her policy on 
19 December 2022 due to the delays in Vitality accepting her claim, and the poor service 
shed received.
Vitality apologised for the delays in assessing Ms Is claim and offered her £25 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms I wasnt happy with this, as she 
felt shed paid for a service she didnt receive. Ms I wants Vitality to refund her the premiums 
she paid, after making reasonable deductions for the service she did receive (virtual GP).
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he didnt think 
Vitality had caused any unreasonable delays. He did think Vitality couldve been a bit more 
proactive in keeping Ms I updated. But he thought the £25 was fair compensation in the 
circumstances. So, he didnt think there was anything else it needed to do, to put things 
right.
Ms I didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think Vitality acted fairly and reasonably when it asked for a claim form to be filled in 
by both Ms I and her GP. I say this considering the claim she made and the fact that it was 
made within the first year of cover on a moratorium policy.
I dont think it was entirely correct when Vitality says it couldnt open the email from the GP 
without a password. But I accept that it wasnt able to open it in the format it was sent to a 
generic mailbox. So, it looks like Vitality needed to get in touch with the GP regardless 
before it could review the information in the email.
Vitality has shown that it phoned the GP service several times between 9 and 19 December, 
at times queuing over 45 minutes. The call notes also show that when Vitality did get through 
to someone at the GP practice, it was told that the person who could help with the password 
wasnt available. Its also unfortunate that the format Ms I used to send the information to 
Vitality wasnt one that its policy allowed it to use.
Overall, whilst it took Vitality longer than normal to assess Ms Is claim, I dont think the 
delays were unreasonable or solely due to any mistakes by Vitality at the time. Im also 
satisfied that Vitality did try to resolve the issue with the email, and it acted fairly and 
reasonably in how it went about it. But I agree with our investigator that Vitality shouldve 
been more proactive in keeping Ms I updated. 
Vitality has already made an offer to pay Ms I £25 compensation to settle the complaint. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. If Vitality hasnt already paid Ms I £25, it should now do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman