DRN-1948674
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc has incorrectly recorded information on his 
credit file about a buy-to-let (BTL) property after it was sold by the bank as mortgagee in 
possession in 2018. Mr M says that, as he was made bankrupt in 2011, the mortgage debt 
should have been written off.
What happened
In May 2007 Mr M took out two BTL mortgages with Barclays to purchase investment 
properties. In 2011 Mr M was made bankrupt, being discharged from his bankruptcy a year 
later. One mortgage account was recorded as defaulted in 2013 and was recorded as such 
on Mr Ms credit file. After six years it was removed from the credit file.
The other mortgage was not defaulted, despite there being arrears between July 2010 and 
January 2016. There were further arrears between October 2016 to March 2018, when the 
property was sold.
In 2014 Mr Ms trustee in bankruptcy disclaimed any interest in the BTL property. The 
records indicate LPA Receivers were appointed to manage the property, in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions. They handed the property back to Barclays in 2016, but due 
to forfeiture proceedings which Barclays was required to deal with, the property wasnt sold 
until 2018, leaving a substantial shortfall debt. At this point Barclays recorded the account 
closed. But arrears were also recorded from 2018, which Barclays says will remain on Mr 
Ms credit file until 2024.
Mr M was unhappy about this and complained to Barclays. He said that the effect of the 
disclaimer by the trustee in bankruptcy meant that he was no longer responsible for the 
mortgage. Mr M claimed he would lose up to £1,000,000 if Barclays didnt amend his credit 
file.
Barclays said that, as this was a secured debt, it wasnt extinguished by Mr Ms bankruptcy 
or the disclaimer by the trustee in bankruptcy. Consequently, Barclays said there was no 
basis on which it could amend Mr Ms credit file to remove the entries about this mortgage.
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. Although at first he thought the complaint should be upheld, after considering the 
matter further, he didnt think Barclays had acted incorrectly. Mr M didnt accept the 
investigators findings. He said other BTL lenders didnt hold him liable for the mortgages 
hed taken out with them, and so he believes Barclays has acted incorrectly. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it now falls to me to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M became bankrupt, his trustee in bankruptcy took over the role of landlord of his 
BTL properties. I note that during the course of administering Mr Ms bankrupt estate, the 
trustee disclaimed one of the BTL properties. Generally this happens when the property is, 
or has become, onerous due to the outstanding mortgage and the value of the property, or 
because of other debts owed on the property which the rent is insufficient to cover. In those 
circumstances, the property is considered a liability rather than an asset and there is no 
benefit to the trustee in taking any further steps to realise that asset. 
Section 315(3) of the Insolvency Act 1986 says:
(3) A disclaimer under this section
(a) operates so as to determine, as from the date of the disclaimer, the rights, 
interests and liabilities of the bankrupt and his estate in or in respect of the property 
disclaimed, and
(b) discharges the trustee from all personal liability in respect of that property as 
from the commencement of his trusteeship,
but does not, except so far as is necessary for the purpose of releasing the 
bankrupt, the bankrupts estate and the trustee from any liability, affect the rights or 
liabilities of any other person. (my emphasis)
By disclaiming the property, the trustee had decided he no longer wanted to have any 
interest in it. The Insolvency Services manual confirms that 
Disclaimer brings to an end the official receivers interest in the tenancy and 
reversion in the property from the date of the disclaimer. It will also bring the 
tenant/landlord relationship to an end and discharge the trustee from all personal 
liability in respect of the property as from the commencement of his/her trusteeship. 
The manual also says: 
A disclaimer does not end third party rights or liabilities, the mortgagee will retain its 
security over the property and its right to appoint a receiver of rents or take 
possession.
The disclaimer may have brought an end to the trustees and Mr Ms interests in the property 
- including liability to pay ground rent and service charges, and to abide by any other 
covenants in the lease, such as repairing covenants.  But Im satisfied that neither the 
bankruptcy in 2011 nor the disclaimer in 2014 brought the mortgage to an end. Section 
315(3) specifically excludes third party rights from the trustees disclaimer.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied the trustees disclaimer doesnt mean that the mortgage 
ceased to exist when the trustee disclaimed any interest in the property. 
Barclays was entitled, both under the mortgage terms and conditions and its statutory 
powers under the Law of Property Act 1925 to appoint a receiver to collect the rent. The 
property was handed back to Barclays in 2016.
For reasons outside Barclays control, the property wasnt sold until 2018, leaving a shortfall 
debt. Im satisfied that it was at this point the debt crystallised, with Barclays recording this 
as a part settlement on Mr Ms credit file. Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to do this. I appreciate Mr M says other lenders have acted differently, but this complaint concerns only 
Barclays actions. I cant comment on what other lenders have, or have not, done in relation 
to Mr Ms credit file. And, after reviewing Barclays actions, Im satisfied the bank has acted 
correctly.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. I know he believes the trustees 
disclaimer cancelled his liability for the mortgage. But for the reasons given above, I 
disagree and so Im unable to order Barclays to remove the entries on Mr Ms credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman