DRN-2525981
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that between 2003 and 2017 Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her 
several packaged bank accounts. Lloyds charged her monthly fees for the accounts and 
provided several potential benefits in return. Mrs G thinks that Lloyds should pay her 
compensation for the fees it charged.
What happened
Mrs G has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that she first opened 
one of its accounts in March 1990. It doesnt have detailed information going back that far, 
but it believes this was probably a fee-free account. 
Lloyds first more detailed records show that by September 2001 it had sold Mrs G a 
packaged account, known as a Gold account, which replaced her fee-free account and for 
which it charged the monthly fee. From then on, its records show that: 
 
In February 2003, it sold her a Platinum account which replaced her Gold account 
and for which it charged a higher fee.
In May 2008, it sold her a Premier account, which replaced her Platinum account and 
for which it charged a higher fee. (*)
In April 2017, it sold her a further package of benefits, known as Club Lloyds. (There 
was usually an extra monthly fee for this package, but Lloyds normally waived it if 
customers paid over a certain amount into the account each month). 
In August 2019, Mrs G switched back to a fee-free account. 
(*) I understand that Mrs G was diagnosed with a serious illness during early 2019 and that 
Lloyds has refunded her with the fees she paid for the Premier account from April 2019 
onwards, as it considered the account became excessive for her needs from this date. 
Despite the lack of detailed information about Mrs Gs early years as a Lloyds customer, I 
think its records about her account history are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be 
correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case and didnt recommend that Lloyds 
should give Mrs G any money back. Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mrs Gs complaint. Ive 
looked into everything that Mrs G and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below.
When Mrs G complained directly to Lloyds, it agreed that it had mis-sold her the Gold and 
Platinum accounts. It paid her compensation for those accounts, which Mrs G has accepted, 
and which seems to have been fair. So, I havent considered anything further about those 
accounts. I have only considered the way Lloyds sold Mrs G the Premier account and the 
Club Lloyds package. As there was quite a long period of time between these two events, I 
have considered them separately. 
The Premier account (May 2008)
Both Lloyds and Mrs G have told us that it advised her to buy the Premier account, probably 
during a meeting at one if its branches. In an advised sale like this, I would have expected 
Lloyds to check that the account was a reasonable match for Mrs Gs needs and financial 
situation, tell her clearly about its benefits and costs, and give her a fair choice about buying 
it. 
At that time, the main benefits of the Premier account included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. It also offered a Will-writing service 
and Lloyds normally charged customers with Premier accounts lower interest rates on 
overdrafts than it applied to customers with fee-free accounts. The car breakdown service 
was a fairly comprehensive package. It offered a wider range of services than came with 
Lloyds cheaper bank accounts. 
Lloyds has sent us a copy of an application form for the Premier account. It looks like the 
form was completed during a face-to-face meeting and Mrs G has signed it. Although I cant 
tell for sure how well Lloyds checked Mrs Gs circumstances before it gave its advice, I think 
its very likely that there was some discussion of her needs during this meeting. I understand 
that she drove a car and so may well have had a potential need for the breakdown service. 
Indeed, Lloyds records show that in the following years, she used the service quite 
frequently and quite widely. Apart from driving, she didnt travel much, but during 2010 she 
enquired about the travel insurance, so she seems to have had potential need for it, even if 
the need never materialized. She also seems to have overdrawn her account from time-to-
time. So, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Premier account to Mrs G. 
As Mrs G used some of the benefits of the Premier account, it follows that Lloyds must have 
told her about them. And I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told her how much the 
account would cost. The fees would appear on her bank statements and I doubt that Lloyds 
would have tried to hide them during the meeting. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds misled Mrs G into thinking that she had to 
have the Premier account and Im satisfied that it allowed her a choice. 
Mrs G has pointed out that the only service she actively used extensively was the 
breakdown service and has suggested that this meant it was unfair of Lloyds to sell the 
account to her. I understand her argument about this. But as I mentioned previously, in 2008 
it looks like she also had a potential need for travel insurance and may have gained from the 
lower interest rates on overdrafts. Also, the account came as a package which Lloyds 
couldnt adapt for precise individual needs. So, I dont think Mrs Gs subsequent widespread 
use of only one benefit shows that Lloyds got things significantly wrong in 2008. 
I dont think the Lloyds mis-sold the Premier account to Mrs G. The Club Lloyds package (April 2017)
Once again, Lloyds and Mrs G have agreed that Lloyds advised Mrs G to buy this package. 
Lloyds has sent us a very similar application form to that for the Premier account, which 
again seems to have been completed during a meeting and which Mrs G also signed. 
The Club Lloyds package was an optional extra which Lloyds offered to customer with 
different types of account, including some which were otherwise fee free. Im satisfied that 
Lloyds told Mrs G it was optional and allowed her a choice. And again, for similar reasons to 
those I mentioned for the Premier account, I think its highly likely that Lloyds told Mrs G how 
much the package would cost. 
In 2017, the potential benefits of the package included options for magazine subscriptions or 
a dining service. Lloyds also offered its Club Lloyds customers higher rates of interest on 
some types of savings than it usually provided to customers with fee-free accounts. Lloyds 
has noted that Mrs G was interested in the magazine subscription and that she had also held 
some of its savings accounts (although I dont have many details about these). So, it seems 
reasonable for Lloyds to have advised her to buy this package. 
I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Club Lloyds package to Mrs G.
Finally, I understand that Mrs G is currently unwell and that members of her family have 
brought this complaint to us on her behalf. Through them, I would like to send my best 
wishes to Mrs G. I would also like to highlight that from the information I have, I cant tell for 
sure if Mrs G still holds the Club Lloyds package. If her family are also unsure, they may 
wish to contact Lloyds to find out and decide what to do. However, I cant give them any 
advice about this, I will leave it entirely up to them. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Gs complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
I am not going to tell Lloyds to give Mrs G any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman