DRN-4470627
The complaint
Miss C complains that she was scammed and National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
wont refund the money.
What happened
What Miss C says:
Miss C was refurbishing a house with her sister and with the support of her mother. She 
agreed a building plan with a sole trader (who I will call A). She made four payments from 
her NatWest accounts as follows:
Date Method of payment Amount
23 January 2023 Faster payment from bank account £2,430
23 January 2023 Faster payment from bank account £3,000
27 January 2023 Faster payment from bank account £4,722.5
30 January 2023 Faster payment from bank account £2,430
Total £12,582.85
Miss C says that the sole trader (A) never intended to complete the job. He hadnt 
completed the work, and not all the materials paid for had been delivered or used. And the 
kitchen units were never delivered  the cost of those was £4,722.85. She said this was a 
scam and NatWest shouldve protected her when she made the payments, but didnt. She 
also said NatWest should refund her under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA).
Miss C says the episode left her feeling very stressed and she is undergoing therapy. She 
now has a loan with nothing to show for it  the property isnt in a liveable condition. She has 
had to move in with relatives, which isnt at all ideal.
What NatWest say:
NatWest issued two final responses. They said a claim under section 75 of the CCA wasnt 
applicable, as this could only be considered if payment (or part payment) was made with a 
credit card. And in this case, Miss C had paid A directly from her bank account, so a section 
75 claim couldnt be looked at. 
NatWest said Miss Cs claim was a civil matter  as a dispute between two parties. Miss C 
should contact the Citizens Advice Consumer service  and gave contact details.
Our investigation so far:
Miss C brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said there couldnt be a claim under 
section 75 because the payments were made from Miss Cs bank account, not by credit 
card. He said this was a civil dispute between Miss C and A  and NatWest couldnt be held 
liable for what happened.
Miss C asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to do 
that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step, I need to decide whether this was a scam (where a scammer takes money 
from a customer with no intention of providing any services or returning the money to them) 
or a civil dispute (where a payment is made to a legitimate trading company or business, but 
the promised services or products dont materialise, or are sub-standard).
If this was a scam  then banks (including NatWest) must follow industry and regulatory 
guidance to check certain payments and in some circumstances, protect customers by 
stopping the payments and contacting customers about them. And where banks havent 
followed the guidance, they can be asked to refund them. This is called Authorised Push 
Payments guidance (APP).
But where payments are made to a business for work to be done, then such principles dont 
apply.
I therefore looked at Miss Cs complaint with this in mind. I can see this is clearly a civil 
dispute between Miss C and A. I say that as:
- In emails between A and Miss C in February 2023, its clear there was a breakdown 
in trust between himself and Miss C  about the amount of work completed and the 
non-delivery of the kitchen units. 
- There was an invoice for the kitchen appliances. A stated that the kitchen had been 
bought and paid for, and said he would deliver the units to the house  at the time he 
said he wouldnt be doing any more work because of the breakdown with Miss C.
- A said work on the bathroom and kitchen flooring had been completed, and 
plastering had been done  and showed a photo of that.
Therefore, I consider Miss Cs complaint to be a civil dispute  and therefore not for 
consideration under the APP principles banks work to. I consider this to be a private civil 
dispute which the bank isnt responsible for putting right. 
Miss C has also said a refund should be pursued by NatWest under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Section 75 can provide refunds where services and/or goods are 
bought with a credit card - but which dont materialise or are sub-standard. But here, Im 
sorry to say that this could only be considered if some, or all of the amounts paid to A was 
with a credit card. And here  Miss C paid A from her bank account. So - section 75 doesnt 
apply.I can only suggest that Miss C must pursues A as a civil claim  by approaching (as NatWest 
said) a body such as Citizens Advice Bureau as a first step, or even considering a court 
action. But  that is a matter for her, and not something with which we can be involved or 
advise on.
Im sorry that Miss C has lost money in a dispute with A, and for the situation she finds 
herself in  but in all fairness, this isnt something we can expect NatWest to have intervened 
in, or stopped the payments. Therefore, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman