DRN-3567877
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
On 24 July 2019, Mr B said he was contacted by someone claiming to be from F, an online
trading platform regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). He said he wanted to
learn about trading and was told hed need an account to do that with a £500 deposit.
Mr B recalled providing his card details over the phone to make the £500 payment.
Afterwards, he was told they had set up a mini account for him and taken a much higher
amount. Mr B argued it wasnt authorised and recalls being told that to refund the money,
hed need to provide ID, a copy of his card (with certain details covered), as well as signing a
form to confirm hed made the transactions.
Mr B said he refused to sign the form and became concerned it was a scam, so he
contacted HSBC for help. HSBC refused to refund the transactions  they said the
transactions were made using the same device Mr B used before and they were verified with
one-time passcodes. They added that Mr B didnt check the company before he shared his
card details, and there werent chargeback rights available. Finally, they said their systems
didnt flag the payments as suspicious. Unhappy with the response, Mr B brought his
concerns to our service.
Ive included a table with the relevant attempted and successful disputed transactions from
24 July 2019:
Time Merchant Amount Outcome
12:36 Leverate £502 Approved
12:39 Leverate £5,020.04 Declined
12:41 Leverate £2,510.02 Approved
12:43 Leverate £2,510.02 Declined
12:44 Leverate £1,201.81 Declined
On 14 June 2022, I issued my provisional decision. I explained why I didnt think Mr B 
authorised the payments after the initial payment for £502. And because I didnt think hed 
failed with gross negligence or intent, then in line with the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, I thought HSBC should refund the second payment for £2,510.02. I also noted hed 
also be entitled to a partial refund under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Finally, I 
noted other concerns that HSBC allowed the payment to go through, after declining the 
attempted payment for a higher amount. 
Mr B accepted my findings. HSBC disagreed. In summary: 
It didnt understand how Ive considered the first payment for £502 authorised and 
the following payment for £2,510.02 as unauthorised, when both payments were 
made using Mr Bs device and all from the same IP address. 
Its said the payments were made online and not over the telephone, so it asks how 
the customers device couldve been used. Its pointed out that Mr B said no-one else 
had access to his device.  
Its said no one-time passcodes were sent for these disputed transactions. 
Because it didnt agree the payment was unauthorised, it didnt think the CCA 
applies. 
It queried the comments that the £5,020.04 payment was declined as it suspected 
fraud  it said the transaction came through via the VISA Secure system as 
authorised.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC highlighted that the payment was made online. I accept this, but I dont think its 
inconsistent with Mr B sharing his card details over the phone. This is typical of a lot of 
scams that we see  where details are shared and the fraudster uses these to make online 
payments. 
I realise the driving force of HSBCs argument is that the payments are recorded as coming 
from Mr Bs device. I acknowledged this in my provisional findings  and highlighted that the 
device ID data contradicts how the IP address for these payments was based in another 
country. This suggests the evidence isnt conclusive that it was Mr B and that something has 
gone on here  for example, that the fraudsters did take over his device and he didnt realise 
or remember it. HSBC didnt respond to this point. Nor has it responded to the other points I 
raised that suggested the latter payments were not authorised. So its response hasnt 
changed my mind. 
HSBC have asked why I reached a different conclusion on the first payment to the others. 
Im satisfied my provisional findings explained this  for the first payment, I consider that Mr 
B gave the fraudster permission to consent to a payment on his behalf. Im not persuaded 
that was the case for the latter payments (attempted and successful). 
Ive also considered HSBCs query surrounding the attempted transaction for £5,020.04 and 
whether it declined it because it suspected fraud. I acknowledge the data isnt available for 
this transaction to explain why it was declined. And having reviewed it alongside Mr Bs 
statements, I accept it was more likely to have been declined because hed insufficient 
funds. 
Regardless of this, Im satisfied the complaint should still be upheld for the other reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision. Id also add that, whether or not HSBC was concerned 
about fraud, I think there remains a question about whether it should have been. Afterall a 
transaction was attempted very quickly after the previous transaction to the same merchant 
 for a relatively significant amount of money that Mr B didnt have. Arguably, this also 
further supports the likelihood these latter transactions were unauthorised  it doesnt make 
sense that Mr B wouldve continually attempted payments very quickly for money he likely 
wouldve known he didnt have. 
So, in all, Ive not changed my mind about what I consider a fair outcome to this complaint. 
For completeness, Ive included my provisional findings below. Its not been disputed that Mr B is the victim of a scam. While F is a legitimate firm, it 
seems he was contacted by someone pretending to be them. In saying that, Ive 
considered that F had no record of him when he later contacted them, and theres a 
warning on the FCAs website about clones of this firm.
Were the transactions authorised?
In line with the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), Mr B isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
To decide whether Mr B authorised these payments, Ive considered the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Broadly, these explain that it depends on whether 
the payment transactions were authenticated correctly and whether he consented to 
them. Its not disputed here that Mr Bs card was used to make the transactions. So 
Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated.
So Ive gone on to consider whether Mr B gave his consent. The PSRs state how 
consent is given  its not something thats open to interpretation. They say it must be 
given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between Mr B and 
HSBC. Its also possible for someone else to act on Mr Bs behalf and use these 
agreed steps. 
Mr B explained that he provided his card details to the caller over the phone to make 
a £500 deposit. So even if he didnt use the form and procedure himself, Im satisfied 
he gave someone else permission to act on his behalf and use the agreed steps.
I acknowledge Mr Bs point that he consented to a £500 payment and they took 
£502. But for the purposes of consent under the PSRs, he didnt need to know all the 
details of the payment, like the amount or who it was going to. Its enough that he 
gave someone permission to consent to a payment on his behalf.
It follows that Im satisfied the first transaction for £502 was authorised.
Ive considered the second successful transaction for £2,510.02. Im not satisfied 
that, in these circumstances, Mr Bs permission for one payment meant that he had, 
actually or in appearance, given them permission to consent to further payments on 
his behalf.
I note HSBCs point that Mr B must have gone through the agreed steps himself as 
the device IDs all match previous transactions he made. But theres conflicting data 
here  the IP address for these transactions indicates that the device was being used 
in a different country. So Im not persuaded this evidence is conclusive.
Mr B also said he handed over his card details for the first payment to be made; he 
didnt make it himself. I think that makes sense. Its unclear to me why fraudsters 
would ask Mr B to make the payments when theyd an opportunity to take his card 
details.
HSBC also said that one-time passcodes, sent to Mr B, were used to complete the 
transactions. But theyve not provided any evidence to support that when weve 
asked for it.Ive also considered the pattern of the transactions and how it is consistent with 
unauthorised use. Transactions were attempted in very quick succession  and, as 
soon as a payment was declined, a lower value was attempted. 
Finally, Ive reviewed Mr Bs testimony. Hes consistently said  to both HSBC and 
our service  that he authorised a transaction for £500 and didnt consent to further 
transactions. It seems likely to me that any further actions he took were under the 
guise of getting his money back, after they said there had been a misunderstanding 
over the account he wanted.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that the second transaction for 
£2,510.02 was authorised.
Did Mr B fail with intent or gross negligence?
I dont think HSBC have shown that Mr B failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
As Ive mentioned, its not clear what security details Mr B shared. But overall, I can 
see why he was initially persuaded he was dealing with a legitimate firm. Its always 
possible to say that he couldve carried out more due diligence, but Im not 
persuaded that his actions here were significantly careless. And I note Mr B stopped 
dealing with the caller when they asked him to sign a form saying he authorised 
transactions. So I dont think theres evidence to support that he seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk.
Ive also noted that most of this transaction came from Mr Bs overdraft. In line with 
Section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, he isnt liable for losses arising for the 
unauthorised use of a credit facility. Thats not subject to a consideration of intent or 
gross negligence under the PSRs.
On this basis, I dont think Mr B is liable for the second transaction  and HSBC 
should put things right.
Other considerations
Regardless of this conclusion, it strikes me theres a further reason to uphold this 
complaint. Id expect HSBC to be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate Mr B was at risk of fraud and intervene appropriately.
I can see why the first payment didnt flag  the amount wasnt particularly unusual 
and the merchant hadnt been reported as a scam with reputable bodies.
But HSBC subsequently declined a transaction for £5,020.04  their records suggest 
they suspected fraud. Yet they took no further action before a payment was approved 
to the same merchant two minutes later.
Given its previous concerns, Id have expected HSBC to have made reasonable 
enquiries to establish whether Mr B was at risk of financial harm. And had they have 
spoken to him, I think his losses for the second transaction wouldve been prevented. 
Thats because I think it wouldve been established that the funds were going to 
different place than the company Mr B thought he was dealing with. And moreover, 
that payments were being attempted when Mr B was trying to get his money back.Ive finally considered whether HSBC couldve helped Mr B recover all the money he 
paid to the merchant by raising a chargeback. But given VISAs rules for 
chargebacks in this area, I dont think there was a claim they couldve raised that 
would have been successful. So I think HSBCs response was right on this point.
Putting things right
I conclude that Mr B remains liable for the first transaction for £502, but HSBC
should refund the second successful transaction for £2,510.02.
As the transaction caused Mr B to enter his overdraft, they should also rework his account
and refund any interest and charges, along with amending his credit report to remove any
negative reporting, that was caused by the transaction. If Mr B repaid the borrowing created
by the transaction, HSBC should also add 8% per year simple interest from the date he
repaid the borrowing to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
HSBC shouldve refunded this much sooner, and I can see thats caused Mr B to worry
about the debt he had. So I also award £100 to reflect his distress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and order HSBC UK Bank
Plc to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman