DRN-4416667
Complaint
Mr T has complained about a guarantor loan UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) provided to 
him. He says that the loan was unaffordable and should never have been provided to him.
Background
UK Credit provided Mr T with a guarantor loan for £6,000.00 in April 2019. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £231.63.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr T and UK Credit had told us. And she thought 
that UK Credit hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. So she didnt 
recommend that Mr Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
UK Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is UK Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether      
Mr T could afford to repay before providing him with this guarantor loan. The fact that UK 
Credit might have been able to call upon Mr Ts guarantor for the payments, should Mr T 
have not made them, did not lessen or dilute what it was required to do. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
UK Credit provided Mr T with a loan for £6,000.00 in April 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 instalments of £231.61. UK Credit says it agreed to Mr Ts application after he 
provided details of his monthly income, which he provided screenshots of online bank 
statements to support, and some information on his expenditure during a phone call. 
It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out as well as 
the information it asked Mr T to provide and all of this information showed Mr T could afford 
to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr T has said he wasnt 
in a good financial position at the time and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr T and UK Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that UK Credit has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. UK Credit searches appear to show that Mr T had two loans and one of them did 
have a late payment. However, Mr T was looking to consolidate this loan with a proportion of 
the funds from this loan. Furthermore, during the phone call he had with UK Credit Mr T 
confirmed that his other commitments were relatively low and were being reasonably well 
managed. 
Having considered matters its clear that UK Credit did obtain quite a bit of information from 
Mr T before lending to him. Equally, Mr T said that he was going to use most of this loan to 
consolidate one of his existing loans. The rest of the funds were going to be used to pay for 
a wedding. 
It may help for me to explain that at this stage all UK Credit could do was make a reasonable 
decision based on the information it had available. It wont have known whether Mr T would 
or wouldnt consolidate the loan balance  like he promised he would - all it could do was 
take reasonable steps to ensure the payments to its loan would be affordable and rely on 
assurances from Mr T that the balance, on the other loan, would be repaid with the funds 
from this one. Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used 
to clear one of Mr Ts existing loans.    
Equally, as this was a first loan UK Credit was providing to Mr T, there wasnt a history of   
Mr T obtaining funds from UK Credit and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the 
way he committed to either. So UK Credit was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr T would 
do what he said he would.
I accept that Mr Ts actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information UK Credit obtained. In particular, Ive noted 
what Mr T said about his personal circumstances meaning that he wasnt working at the 
time. However, Mr T not only told UK Credit that he was working, he also provided evidence 
in the form of screenshots of online statements in order to support what he said. So Mr T 
may not only have been inaccurate, he attempted to provide evidence to support what he 
now says was an inaccurate statement. 
Additionally, when UK Credit pushed Mr T on the fact that payments were being credited to 
this account from two different companies, Mr T said that he was being subcontracted by 
another company. Nonetheless, UK Credit excluded the payments from one of the 
companies on the basis that Mr T said hed been working for the other one for almost three 
years and even with the single income the loan appeared affordable. 
I also have to take into account not only the checks carried out, but also the extent to which 
Mr T providing further information to support what he was saying takes his representation 
from being an inaccurate statement to a clearly untruthful declaration. Most importantly, I 
also need to consider what effect this has on whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold the complaint.  And while I acknowledge that Mr Ts situation may have been 
different from what he said and provided showed, given what Mr T said and the lengths he 
must have gone to in order to attempt to prove what he was saying, its very difficult for me 
to say that UK Credit needed to do even more. 
I am also mindful that even if Mr T was asked to provide more to prove his ability to repay 
this loan, his actions in terms of what hed already said and done suggests that he was determined to provide evidence to support what he was saying about being able to afford the 
loan payments. And, in these circumstances, I cannot reasonably conclude that UK Credit 
taking further steps or actions would have resulted in it uncovering Mr Ts actual situation or 
declining to lend to him. 
I say this noting that Mr T also enquired about the early settlement terms on the loan and 
said that this was because he was expecting an inheritance to enable him to clear the 
balance well ahead of the scheduled repayment date. 
I should also explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here and the 
information provided, I think that it is difficult for me to conclude that UK Credit ought to have 
uncovered that the monthly loan payments were unaffordable for Mr T, or that its actions 
here were not fair and reasonable. 
So overall I dont think that UK Credit treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his guarantor loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr T. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
I note that Mr T has spoken about the impact that this loan had on his guarantor. But Im only 
able to look into UK Credits actions in relation to him. Should Mr Ts guarantor be unhappy 
with UK Credits actions, this is a matter they, rather than Mr T, will have to take up with it.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like to remind UK Credit of its continuing 
obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the 
outstanding balance on Mr Ts account and it be the case that he is experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman