DRN-2780488
The complaint
Miss S says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S took out a £700 loan over 78 weeks on 12 November 2018. The weekly repayment
was £36.60 and the total repayable was £2854.80.
Miss S says the loan was unaffordable and she wasnt creditworthy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. He said Loans 2 Go had carried out
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered.
Miss S disagreed with this conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Miss S required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood 
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Miss S. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Miss Ss loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the loan. It
checked her credit file and asked for details of her income and expenditure. She declared
these to be £1,541 and £610. It checked her income using an income verification tool and
used a lower figure of £1304.91 for its assessment. It increased her expenses to £992.13
after an internal review and checking her credit file. From these checks combined Loans 2
Go concluded Miss S had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
Given the term and value of the loan, and the age of the lending relationship, I think these
checks were proportionate. So Ive then looked carefully at whether Loans 2 Go made a fair
lending decision based on the information it gathered. From Miss Ss credit file Loans 2 Go
could see Miss S had a low level of outstanding unsecured debt of £1674, including two 
payday loans. At the time of her application repayments were up-to-date on all of her 
borrowing. The report did show that Miss S had historically used short-term credit frequently, 
but she had repaid all such settled accounts on time and there was no adverse data 
recorded against them.
Overall, based on this information and the assessment of Miss Ss disposable income I think 
it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to lend to Miss S. Miss S has sent in a list of six high cost 
lenders she had loans/cards with at the time of her application. I accept she may have had 
other borrowing that wasnt on the credit report Loans 2 Go saw. The information a lender 
sees can vary from what a consumer may see on their own credit report for a number of 
reasons such as timing and the fact not all lenders report to all credit reference agencies. 
But in this case as I concluded the lender carried out proportionate checks, it follows I think it 
was fair and reasonable for it to rely on the information in the credit report it obtained. So I 
dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Miss S.
And I havent found evidence that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss S 
in some other way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman