DRN-3704015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Landmark Mortgages Limited has acted unfairly in relation to 
the interest rate applied to their Together unsecured personal loan. They are unhappy that 
Landmark has applied, and continues to apply, an interest rate premium of 5% above its 
standard variable rate (SVR) to their Together loan since they repaid their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L would like the interest rate on their Together loan to be Landmarks SVR 
going forward and theyd like the additional interest theyve paid above SVR over the years 
to be refunded to them.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs L took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. They borrowed 
around £67,500 over a 35 year term on a capital repayment basis. At the same time Mr 
and Mrs L also borrowed an unsecured Together loan for £14,500. This was also to be 
repaid over a 35 year term.
The mortgage and Together loan were taken out on a five year fixed interest rate product 
of 5.89%. After that time, both the mortgage and loan would revert to the Standard Variable 
Rate while Mr and Mrs L kept their mortgage with Northern Rock or other successor 
lenders.
In February 2008 Northern Rock collapsed and was subsequently nationalised. Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage was later transferred to Landmark. Landmark, as the current loan 
owner, has responded to this complaint.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs L remortgaged with another high street lender. They wanted to move 
to a larger property and needed to borrow more. They also wanted to get access to a more 
competitive rate of interest on their mortgage. Landmarks predecessor wasnt offering any 
further borrowing or interest rate products following its nationalisation so it couldnt give Mr 
and Mrs L the mortgage they wanted.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs L repaid their Together mortgage. However, they left the unsecured
Together loan running. Mr L says there hadnt been enough equity in their property to borrow
the extra amount needed to repay the Together loan too.
In early 2019 Mr and Mrs L complained to Landmark. They felt it was unfair that the
additional 5% interest premium above SVR was being applied to their loan and were
frustrated that it was taking a long time for their loan balance to reduce.
Landmark issued its final response to the complaint on 3 May 2019, not upholding the
complaint. In summary Landmark said it wasnt currently in a position to offer customers a
fixed or lower interest rate of interest on the Together loan. And that the interest rate would
remain at 5% above its SVR for the rest of the loan term because Mr and Mrs L had repaid
their main mortgage. Mr and Mrs L were dissatisfied with the response and so brought their
complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs L had been treated unfairly by Landmark. He thought it
was unfair that a 5% delinking interest rate premium had been applied to the Together loan
since 2015. In summary, he wasnt persuaded that there was an additional cost to Landmark
to justify the delinking premium. And he thought applying the 5% premium had created an
unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs L and their lender, as per Section 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act. To put things right, he thought it reasonable that the loan should be
reworked as if it had continued to be on Landmarks SVR from 2015 onwards and that it
should stop applying the 5% premium going forward.
Mr and Mrs L accepted the investigators view. Landmark didnt accept the investigators
findings and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint and reach a final decision on
the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 18 August 2022 which set out my thoughts on this 
complaint. In summary, I didnt agree with our investigators view of the complaint. I 
explained in my provisional decision why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I thought it had been made reasonably clear in the mortgage and loan documentation that 
the Together mortgage and loan were intended to operate alongside each other. And that if 
the mortgage borrowing and unsecured loan were no longer linked, then a higher rate of 
interest would apply to the Together loan from that point onwards.
I said that the contract that Mr and Mrs L entered into gave the lender the ability to apply 
an extra 5% of interest (above the SVR) for the remaining term of the loan. But, while that 
term was in the contract, Id also given careful consideration as to whether it was fair and 
reasonable that, in the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, their lender had 
chosen to apply the additional 5% of interest in 2015 and since that time. 
I explained as part of this assessment, Id thought about the arguments made by our 
investigator about whether an unfair relationship arose in light of what happened to Northern 
Rock following its collapse - and the way in which Landmark and the predecessor lender 
exercised or enforced any of its rights under the agreement or any related agreement. Id 
thought about whether the lenders actions created an unfair relationship when considered in 
relation to the specific set of facts that are relevant in Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances; and in 
any event what I found to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
I could understand Mr and Mrs Ls frustration that they had been unable to remortgage with 
their current lender. However, following Northern Rocks collapse and nationalisation it was 
not able to offer new lending or interest rate products to any of its existing customers.
Mr and Mrs L had wanted to borrow more money to buy a larger property and so they 
needed to move to another lender. But I didnt think it necessarily followed that the only 
reason Mr and Mrs L got a mortgage with another lender was because they had to 
following Northern Rocks collapse years before. Even if Northern Rock hadnt collapsed, it 
may have no longer offered Together mortgage products, further lending or new interest 
rate deals. Or Mr and Mrs L may have simply chosen a more competitively priced or 
attractive mortgage deal with another lender. I had checked in the mortgage agreement 
and Northern Rock hadnt made any guarantee in the mortgage agreement of further 
lending or new interest rate products.
In Mr and Mrs Ls situation, they chose to move to a larger property. This meant they had 
to apply for a mortgage with a new lender as their current lender couldnt offer this 
anymore.Id also thought carefully about what options were open to Mr and Mrs L in 2015, and 
whether they were able to make an informed decision about what to do next with their 
remaining Together loan.
Mr L had said he was surprised that the interest rate increased when they repaid the 
mortgage in 2015. They had planned to use the interest saving from their new mortgage 
loan to save money. However, the increased interest theyd be paying on the unsecured 
Together loan has meant they hadnt been able to save as much as they had hoped.
Id looked at the contact history between the predecessor lender and Mr and Mrs L from the 
time they repaid the mortgage. The predecessor lenders contact history showed that Mr 
and Mrs L were reminded about the delinking premium before they repaid the mortgage 
loan. I was persuaded that reasonable steps had been taken by the lender to remind Mr and 
Mrs L about this term in the contract before they repaid the mortgage, and that Mr and Mrs L 
had had time to consider their options before they moved in 2015.
Id also thought about the consequences of the additional interest premium for Mr and Mrs 
L as part of my wider consideration of this complaint. In particular, Id considered whether 
the increase in interest rate had left Mr and Mrs L in ongoing financial difficulty or without 
any potential options of improving their position.
Mr and Mrs L hadnt said that they have struggled to pay the increased repayments on the 
Together loan since the interest rate rose in 2015. Rather, they have said the interest rate 
premium has meant they havent been able to save as much money each month as they 
might have done if the interest rate had continued to be lower. The contact history between 
Mr and Mrs L and their lender also showed no contact in which Mr and Mrs L have said 
theyre in difficulty or asked for forbearance or the lenders help as they cant make their 
loan repayments. 
I didnt think it could be argued that Landmark could reasonably have foreseen that there 
were any adverse consequences with its decision to apply the increased interest rate 
premium until Mr and Mrs L made their complaint in 2019. And, even when making their 
complaint, it didnt seem that Mr and Mrs L have said theyve struggled financially as a result 
of the interest rate premium being applied to the Together loan. Rather, they were 
disappointed that their decision to remortgage with another lender in 2015 hadnt been as 
beneficial as it would have been if the interest rate premium hadnt been applied.
Id also considered the creditors arguments about why it said the additional 5% interest 
rate premium has been applied to a delinked loan, and whether I thought this was 
reasonable. Landmark has explained there are additional risks for the lender when the 
Together loan is delinked from the mortgage. It has said that the likelihood of default 
increases in such situations; and that is why a delinking premium was built into the 
contract to protect the legitimate additional costs for the creditor.
I could see why that might be the case. A first charge mortgage would be a top priority 
debt commitment for most consumers, not least as the consequences of falling behind with 
a mortgage can be so significant and ultimately lead to repossession. When the mortgage 
was moved to another lender, I could see that focus would move elsewhere, leaving the 
unsecured Together loan as a lower priority debt and at greater risk of non-payment. I 
accepted the arguments that Landmark had made and I thought it was reasonable that 
some additional interest rate premium had been applied to the Together loan when the 
mortgage was repaid and yet the loan was left behind.Landmark had said that the increased interest rate on a delinked Together loan was to 
move the borrowing to a rate more in line with unsecured lending rates. And that there is 
no early repayment charge if Mr and Mrs L had chosen to repay their loan at any time.
Landmark said there was information on their statements and on its website as to where 
Mr and Mrs L could get help and advice to help customers move their balance elsewhere.
I had considered what premium might be reasonable to reflect this additional legitimate 
cost to Landmark. I thought about the arguments made with respect to the additional 
default risk for the lender when the loan was delinked, but also fairness to Mr and Mrs L. I 
thought some increase to the interest rate premium for the Together loan delinking was 
reasonable to reflect the additional risks of default faced by the lender. Having carefully 
considered other long-term unsecured lending rates in the market, while a premium of 5% 
above SVR may not be the best rate in the market, I also didnt consider it to be 
disproportionately high.
I thought what made Mr and Mrs Ls loan more expensive from an overall interest cost 
was the length of the loan term. In 2006 Mr and Mrs L borrowed around £14,000 over a 35 
year term. This very long loan term would lead to a significant interest cost for Mr and Mrs 
L if the loan was left to run over the entire term. I could see why Mr and Mrs L were 
unhappy that the loan balance had been so slow to reduce. I considered the fundamental 
issue here, when assessing the overall cost of this borrowing, was the extremely long term 
for unsecured borrowing rather than the interest rate itself.
Mr and Mrs L clearly consider that this loan no longer offers value for money or isnt on 
terms that they find attractive. I considered Mr and Mrs Ls options both when the loan 
delinked and since the Together loan was delinked. I thought it may have been possible 
that Mr and Mrs L could have refinanced this loan if they were unhappy with its terms.
My provisional decision was that a court may not consider that an unfair relationship exists. 
I wasnt persuaded that there has been such a significant imbalance between the parties 
that this has led to the relationship between Mr and Mrs L and Landmark becoming unfair. 
I could see that the collapse of Northern Rock may have led to Mr and Mrs L having fewer 
options than they may have previously hoped, but I didnt consider it left them without 
option, or that Landmark used this lack of options to enforce rights under the Together loan 
agreement that have led to unfairness.
Landmark had operated Mr and Mrs Ls Together loan in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement following the repayment of the mortgage. I didnt consider 
there were particular aspects of Mr and Mrs Ls financial situation or their interaction with 
Landmark that have make it unfair or unreasonable that it has done so. As such, I didnt 
consider that Landmark had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. 
Landmark replied to say it still considered the complaint should not be upheld. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs L responded to say they feel trapped with the Together loan. 
Theyve said: 
- their initial complaint had been about how the product had been sold to them by a 
broker. They say it hadnt been made clear by the broker when the mortgage was sold to them that a delinking premium might apply in the future, and they didnt know 
about this until 2015. 
- they had asked the predecessor lender about new interest rate products in the 
couple of years before they moved. And that in 2015 it wasnt made clear to them 
that the interest rate would increase until after theyd started the process of 
refinancing with another high street lender. 
- The value of the house they were buying in 2015 wasnt enough to repay both parts 
of the Together mortgage. They decided at the time to borrow the full amount they 
could based on the value of the house to pay off other debts. 
- They have explored refinancing the loan over a shorter term, but this makes the 
monthly repayment unaffordable. The loan would need repaying in a maximum of 
seven years. 
- There have been times when they have struggled to meet their repayments and 
theyve needed to use credit cards and borrow from family to meet their monthly 
commitments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should not succeed. 
I appreciate that this is disappointing for Mr and Mrs L and I shall respond to their further 
comments. 
This complaint is brought against Mr and Mrs Ls lender. It doesnt address issues with the 
actions of the broker who sold the mortgage and Together loan to Mr and Mrs L in 2006. 
However, I have considered whether the lender made the delinking term reasonably clear in 
the mortgage offer and loan documentation. I consider that it, as the lender, made it 
reasonably clear in the mortgage offer and loan agreement how the loan and mortgage were 
intended to operate together- and that there was a delinking premium if the mortgage was 
ever repaid and the loan left running.
I also consider that the predecessor lender reminded Mr and Mrs L that a delinking premium 
would apply to the Together loan if they chose to repay the mortgage before they refinanced 
the mortgage. The contact notes from 2015 indicate that Mr and Mrs L were told about this 
while they were arranging a mortgage with another lender. And Mr L has said that they 
couldnt borrow enough to repay all their other debts. I understand why they chose to 
prioritise the repayment of other debts and leave the Together loan running knowing the 
interest rate that would apply and evaluating their wider financial situation at the time.
I can appreciate the dilemma that Mr and Mrs L faced and the sacrifices that they have had 
to make since to meet their debt obligations. Mr and Mrs L have explained why in the years 
since they remortgaged, they have chosen to leave the Together loan in place to keep their 
monthly repayments lower. That is a decision that they are entitled to make. However, I dont 
think I can fairly ask Landmark to alter the interest rate on the Together loan as Mr and Mrs 
L have chosen to repay other debts before this loan. It may be in due course that Mr and Mrs 
L find another way to repay this borrowing. They may find it helpful to take debt advice about 
the most cost-effective way of doing this. But I dont consider Landmark has acted unfairly in 
applying interest in line with the terms of the Together loan agreement.My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman