DRN-3315737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about changes to the borrowing limit on their Virgin One bank 
account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). They are unhappy with the actions RBS 
took in reducing the borrowing limit by significant amounts over a relatively short period of 
time from 2012. This caused them to each take benefits from occupational pensions earlier 
than the normal scheme retirement ages, use other funds to reduce the amount owing and 
feel pressured into selling their home in 2013.
In settlement of the complaint Mr and Mrs H have asked that RBS pay them an amount 
equal to the lump sum payments they made and compensate them for the loss in pension 
benefits. They also asked that RBS pay them a larger amount to compensate them for the 
anguish it caused them by its actions. 
What happened
In 2000 Mr and Mrs H took out a Virgin One account with RBS. This was a bank account 
with a borrowing facility (effectively an overdraft) associated with it, which was secured on 
their home. The borrowing limit for Mr and Mrs Hs account was set at £140,000 initially, over 
a term ending in 2011. This borrowing facility was increased at various points and by the end 
of 2004 it had increased to £208,500. The increases had been made at Mr and Mrs Hs 
request and the term had also been extended to 2014. 
The concept of the account was to provide a flexible borrowing resource for consumers. It 
allowed additional borrowing up to the facility limit without the need for the borrowers to have 
to go through an application process. It also gave them flexibility around paying the capital. 
In Mr and Mrs Hs case, theyd told RBS that they had investments in place that would pay 
off around £50,000 of their mortgage in 2011, so they were only ever expected to pay the 
interest on that portion of the borrowing. 
The remainder of the borrowing was on a capital and interest basis, so Mr and Mrs H were 
expected to reduce the amount owed on that portion of the mortgage gradually over the term 
of the borrowing. However, all they were required to pay on a regular monthly basis was the 
interest on this part of the mortgage and they were allowed to reduce the capital debt as and 
when they wanted and in the manner they wanted. For example, they could reduce the 
capital amount owing on a monthly basis as they would have if they had taken a traditional 
repayment mortgage, or they could make ad-hoc larger reductions as and when funds were 
available. 
The repayment of the capital amount was entirely flexible and in the control of the borrowers, 
but it was also their responsibility to ensure that they made enough payments throughout the 
term to repay the capital by the end of the borrowing term. However, RBS gave 
Mr and Mrs H guidance about reducing the debt during the term when they originally 
arranged the borrowing and when the borrowing facility or term was changed. These guides 
set out what the amounts RBS would have expected the borrowing to have been reduced to 
at key points over the term in order to facilitate repayment the debt. RBS also sent regular 
information about the progress of the repayment arrangement against the guidance given  
detailing whether the borrowers were ahead of or behind where RBS would have expected 
them to be.
In 2012 RBS contacted Mr and Mrs H about their mortgage and their plans for repaying the 
borrowing in 2014. The reason for this was two-fold, the first being that Mr and Mrs H were 
quite close to the point where they needed to repay the debt and the amount of borrowing 
was higher than RBS would have expected it to be at that point. The second being that due 
to the financial crash a few years earlier, the mortgage industry had concluded that accounts 
such as the Virgin One account where there was flexible lending and no reduction in the 
borrowing facility, represented a higher risk to both borrowers and lenders than they had 
previously been thought to. As such, it was decided that borrowing limits should gradually be 
reduced to support the debt being paid off over the borrowing term.
The 2012 discussions with Mr and Mrs H resulted in the term of the borrowing being 
extended to 2021. Mr and Mrs H confirmed that they intended to downsize at that point, but 
RBS said that was not an acceptable repayment vehicle and so it informed them that they 
would need reduce the borrowing regularly throughout the extended term. It said that each 
year Mr and Mrs H needed to reduce the debt by just over £20,000. The first of the 
milestones being March 2013. The next reduction point detailed was March 2014 when a 
similar reduction was needed.
Mr and Mrs H made several lump sum payments into their account during 2013:
14 January 2013 a payment of £13,500 from a severance payment.
14 March 2013 a payment of £16,072.11 from the first of Mr Hs pension lump sums.
14 June 2013 a payment of £17,765.78 from Mrs Hs pension lump sum 
13 September 2013 a payment of £30,188.36 from a second pension lump sum for Mr H.
In March 2013, Mr and Mrs H put their home up for sale and the sale completed the day 
before Mr Hs second pension lump sum was paid into the account. The entire debt was 
repaid and the borrowing facility was removed from the account.
In 2019, RBS contacted Mr and Mrs H regarding their account and the impact its repayment 
guide plan (RGP) process had. It said that the purpose of the RGP had been to help and 
support Mr and Mrs H, but it had come to the conclusion that its communications could have 
been clearer. As such, it believed that some customers had taken actions that RBS hadnt 
intended them to. In the case of Mr and Mrs H, it believed that the RGP had influenced them 
to sell their home. It apologised if that were the case and it offered them compensation for 
the costs of selling their home. In addition, it asked them for any information they had from 
the time to show that theyd incurred further losses that it should compensate them for. It 
also offered them £400 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H explained the impact the RGP had on them, including that they had needed to 
use a severance lump sum to reduce the mortgage balance along with pension lump sums. 
The latter had required them to both take reserved occupational pension benefits earlier than 
the normal scheme retirement age, which resulted in lower benefits being paid. 
There was much discussion between the parties and eventually the offer made by RBS 
consisted of:
A sum for the costs associated with selling the mortgaged property. This was more than 
the actual costs incurred, but RBS maintained its original offer based on estimated costs.
A sum equal to the costs incurred for the purchase of Mr and Mrs Hs new home. 
Costs associated with moving, including removal costs and postal redirection.A sum to compensate for the loss of benefits due to taking the first of Mr Hs 
occupational pensions early.
A sum to compensate for the loss of benefits due to taking Mrs Hs occupational pension 
early.
Interest at 8% simple was added to the costs associated with selling and buying 
properties and the lump sum pension losses calculated. Tax was deducted from the 
interest payment.
£1,450 compensation payment for the upset and inconvenience they were caused at the 
time of the RGP and for the complaint and review handling. 
However, RBS rejected Mr and Mrs Hs position regarding the severance payment that was 
used to reduce the mortgage balance. They had said that theyd intended to put the money 
into some sort of savings arrangement that would have achieved a higher rate of interest 
than the mortgage attracted. RBS said that as there was no evidence of Mr and Mrs H 
having a savings account at the time, it couldnt conclude that they would have received a 
higher return on the money than they saved in mortgage interest. 
In addition, RBS awarded Mr and Mrs H £400 because it didnt think that the complaint about 
the RGP in 2012 had been handled appropriately. The total of the payments made was 
£72,906.16.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and discussed their concerns 
with them to ensure that she understood the complaint. Shortly thereafter, she explained that 
while Mr and Mrs H wanted RBS to refund the lump sums (from pensions and a severance 
arrangement) theyd paid to reduce the borrowing, she wouldnt be asking RBS to do this. 
This was because when Mr and Mrs H sold the house, they had received those lump sums 
back in the equity. If the lump sums were reimbursed on top of that, they would have 
received the money back twice, which wouldnt be reasonable.
In relation to the building works that had been needed to their property before the sale could 
go through, the investigator was of the opinion that these works would always have needed 
to be done before the property could be sold.  As such, they would always have had to pay 
that money out so RBS couldnt reasonably be asked to reimburse these costs. As for the 
works Mr and Mrs H had done on the property they had bought, again, the investigator didnt 
consider RBS could be held accountable for them. The works had been needed due to the 
nature of the property they had bought, and it had been Mr and Mrs Hs choice to do so.
In relation to the sale of the property, the investigator was satisfied that Mr and Mrs H would 
always have needed to sell their home in order to repay the borrowing, unless they could 
have managed to find the c£20,000 a year for the remainder of the borrowing term to clear 
the debt. As Mr and Mrs H sold when they did, it didnt appear that Mr and Mrs H thought 
they could do that.
The investigator considered the matter of Mr H taking the second of his occupational 
pensions early and the fact that RBS hadnt taken this into account when calculating the loss 
Mr and Mrs H had suffered. She was satisfied that RBS position was reasonable. This was 
because the facility reduction in March 2013 had been more than met by the payments from 
the severance payment and the lump sum from Mr Hs first pension. The cost of the works 
needed to sell the property had been covered by Mrs Hs pension lumpsum. The request for 
pension benefits from the second scheme hadnt been made until after the borrowing limit 
reduction had been met and theyd already accepted an offer for their property. As such, it 
didnt appear that the pension needed to have been taken when it was in order to facilitate a 
future borrowing limit reduction. As for the offer in respect to Mr and Mrs Hs other pension lump sums, the investigator was 
satisfied that it was reasonable. She explained that interest wasnt due on the loss as this 
was only usually paid when a consumer had lost access to the funds for a time. Whereas 
Mr and Mrs H may have been receiving slightly less each month from their pensions, but 
they had started receiving funds years before they should have done. In such a situation, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for interest to be added. The investigator was also satisfied that the 
remaining parts of the offer made by RBS were fair and reasonable too.
Mr and Mrs H said that they accepted most of the investigators comments. However, they 
remained concerned about the redress that had been paid in respect of the two pension 
schemes having been accessed early. In particular they were concerned that RBS had 
deducted interest saved on the borrowing from both calculations. 
Mr and Mrs H also put forward their own calculations for their loss of income from their 
pensions. This showed a much higher loss that the amount RBS had offered them. Where 
there were some slight differences in how Mr and Mrs H had calculated the figures, in that 
they had used an assumed 2% indexation each year, rather than applying the actual 
indexation used for past years. The main difference was that Mr and Mrs H hadnt taken into 
account in their calculations the income theyd received before the normal scheme 
retirement ages.
The investigator considered the method of calculation and was satisfied that it was 
appropriate in the circumstances. Essentially, the calculation worked out how much Mr H 
and Mrs H would receive in income from their respective pensions and compared it to the 
what they would have received had they taken the pensions at normal retirement age. A 
similar comparison was done for the pension lump sums they received, and from that the 
interest each lump sum would have individually saved on the borrowing, was deducted. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators assessment of the calculation methodology 
RBS had used. As such, they asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, I dont need to consider whether an error was made on the part of RBS, as it 
has accepted that its communications with Mr and Mrs H wasnt what it should have been 
and that had consequences for them. Those were that they took pension benefits early and 
sold their home before they otherwise would have.  
The matter I have to decide is whether the redress RBS has offered Mr and Mrs H is 
appropriate. I would explain at this point that when we award redress, our aim is to place the 
complainant in as close a financial position as possible to that which they would have been 
in had the error or omission on the part of the financial business not happened. 
There are many parts to the redress  that relating to the costs of selling their existing home, 
buying their new one and the costs of facilitating this process. Mr and Mrs H didnt raise any 
concerns about what RBS had agreed to pay in this regard when they referred their 
complaint to us. As such, I dont need to make findings on these issues, but for 
completeness I have looked at the offers and I am satisfied that RBS acted fairly when 
deciding on its offer in these resects.
Mr and Mrs H came to us as they wanted the lump sums theyd paid toward the borrowing, 
in order to comply with the borrowing limit, to be refunded. As our investigator explained, other than the pension lump sum from Mr Hs second scheme, Mr and Mrs H have already 
received these funds back in the form of equity from the sale of their home. Had they not 
paid the lump sums off the debt owed to RBS, they would have received less from the sale 
of their property.
The second pension lump sum was paid into the account after the property was sold and the 
debt repaid, so that sum would have still been at Mr and Mrs Hs disposal when it was 
received. I have, however, considered whether it was reasonable that RBS didnt offer 
redress in respect to this pension. By the time Mr H contacted the pension scheme to take 
benefits from the pension, the borrowing limit reduction for that year had already been more 
than met from the other lump sums that had been paid into the account. Also, the next 
reduction was not due until the following year, so there was no urgency to start organising 
the release of further funds to meet that target. In addition, Mr and Mrs H had already 
accepted an offer to purchase their home, which would mean that no further borrowing 
reductions would be needed. Overall, I cant find that the RGP was the primary reason for 
the benefits of this pension being taken when they were and so I cant ask RBS to pay any 
compensation for any loss of income or reduced tax-free lump sum.
I am also satisfied that, in the circumstances of this complaint, the compensation offer was 
fair.
The outstanding matter is the calculation of redress on the two pensions that RBS has 
accepted were taken early because of the communication around the RGP in 2012. 
The pension losses were calculated in two parts; the amount of the tax-free lump sums 
received and the income from the pension. It was not unreasonable for RBS to complete two 
separate calculations as the pension benefits are paid in those two ways. 
The pension lump sums would have been bigger had the pension been taken at normal 
retirement ages. Therefore, RBS has determined what that difference would have been and 
used that figure for the start of the loss calculation. This is entirely appropriate. 
RBS then deducted the account interest that would have been saved on the amount of each 
lump sum separately, from the date the lump sum was paid to the date the lump sum should 
have been available to Mr and Mrs H. I note that Mr and Mrs H have questioned that this 
sum has been calculated to the date of normal retirement, as the borrowing was repaid in 
2013. However, I have explained above, the aim of redress is to place a consumer in as 
close a financial position to that they would have been in but for the mistake. In this case, 
had the pensions not been taken early, Mr and Mrs H would have paid interest on those 
portions in the borrowing repaid by the lump sums until at least they reached scheme 
retirement age. Its not unreasonable for RBS to take that into account in the loss 
calculations.
I have also looked at the method of calculation RBS has used in relation to the pension 
incomes Mr and Mrs H will and should have received. It has offered to pay them the 
difference between these figures and that is entirely appropriate. Both pensions are indexed. 
RBS has used the actual percentage indexation used by the pension scheme for the 
historical years, and it has used an assumption of 2% going forward. Given the historical 
rates have varied between 0% and 3%, I consider the 2% assumption going forward is fair. 
As such, I consider the offers calculated by this method is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
While we dont provide a calculation checking service, given Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about 
the calculations producing much lower figures than their own, I have looked at the two sets 
of calculations. There is one key difference between the calculations and that is that Mr and Mrs H havent taken into account the income they received before the normal 
scheme retirement age. If they deduct those sums from their figures, they will be in line with 
those produced by RBS. In addition, Mr and Mrs H used a 2% indexation for the pensions 
throughout, rather than using the actual historical percentages for the years up to the date of 
calculation. As the indexation was below 2% in several of those years, that will have had an 
effect on the figures theyve produced too. That said, once Mr and Mrs H factor these things 
into their assessment of their loss, if they still think that the calculations RBS produced are 
wrong, it would be for them to evidence that through the use of a suitably qualified 
professional.
Overall, I am satisfied that the redress and compensation offered by RBS was appropriate in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman