DRN-4191227
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering his car. 
In November 2022 his car was damaged in a collision with a third party.
Admiral paid for the repairs to his car which were carried out at a repairer of Mr Ps choice.
As part of the repair, one tyre was replaced. This was due to the impact with the third party 
being in that location.
Mr Ps car is a four-wheel drive model. The manufacturer says it strongly recommends 
replacing all four tyres together.
He complained to Admiral and asked that it pay for the other three tyres, which hed already 
replaced at a cost of over £500.
Admiral wouldnt do this. It said the manufacturer recommended the tyres replacement as a 
set  it wasnt mandatory. 
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the policy would only 
replace tyres damaged in the collision and because the manufacturer didnt mandate the 
replacement of all four tyres, he thought Admiral acted fairly.
Mr P didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file of evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive read about the circumstances of Mr Ps collision with the third party and the damage that 
was caused. The repairer involved replaced the tyre mounted on the wheel at the corner of 
the car where the collision happened. 
I know Mr P has said he didnt think the tyre had been damaged, as hed driven around on it 
following the collision. But the garage making the assessment, which would have been 
agreed with Admirals engineers, must have felt there was a reason for the tyre to be 
replaced and I think its fair and reasonable for a repairer to make that choice.
Having replaced it, Mr P then found that the manufacturer said he should replace the other 
three tyres. He complained on the basis that the manufacturer says the tyres must be 
replaced at the same time. Ive looked at the cars manual and I can see that the 
manufacturer says it strongly recommends replacing them. But in my view it falls short of 
saying that they must be replaced. 
Mr P has had the benefit of one new tyre being fitted and although he feels strongly that the 
others should be replaced by Admiral, I dont think the cars manual says that they must be 
changed. In addition, Mr Ps policy is one that pays for repairs to damage caused  and the 
other three tyres werent damaged, so I cant reasonably say Admiral should be made to pay 
for their replacement.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman