DRN-4397358
The complaint
Mr L and Mr M are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc wont allow them to switch their 
mortgage to interest only. 
What happened
Mr L and Mr M took out a residential mortgage with Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) in 
2013. They borrowed around £340,000 over a 25 year term. The mortgage began as interest 
only for the first three years, after which it would switch to repayment for the remainder of the 
term. 
The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed for the first three years. At the end of that initial 
period, Mr L and Mr M re-mortgaged over the same initial term (so the mortgage had just 
under 22 years left to run). The mortgage was on a repayment basis and the interest rate 
was fixed for the first two years. 
In 2018 (at the end of the two year fixed period), Mr L and Mr M took a new interest rate 
product, with the interest fixed for the next five years.
In 2020, Mr L and Mr M successfully applied for six months worth of payment holidays under 
the arrangements relating to Covid 19. They continued to experience financial difficulties and 
Clydesdale agreed for the mortgage to temporarily switch to interest only as a forbearance 
concession. This arrangement ran for around 18 months. 
In 2022, Mr L and Mr M complained to Clydesdale after it had turned down their request to 
switch their mortgage to interest only on a permanent basis. Clydesdale upheld the 
complaint relating to a number of service failings and it paid Mr L and Mr M £200 as an 
apology. However, Clydesdale maintained its stance in terms of the request to switch to 
interest only, saying that Mr L and Mr M didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr L and Mr M referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
here said they didnt think that Clydesdale had acted unfairly when declining the request to 
switch the mortgage to interest only. They also said they thought the £200 offered in relation 
to the service issues wasnt unreasonable. 
Mr L and Mr M remained unhappy and asked for the case to be escalated to an 
Ombudsman. I asked the investigator to share some provisional thoughts with both parties, 
as follows:
The Ombudsman is currently minded to agree that Clydesdale Bank hasnt treated 
Mr L and Mr M unfairly in not agreeing to change the mortgage contract to interest only on a 
permanent basis. However, the Ombudsman currently thinks that Clydesdale should pay a 
higher figure of compensation, given the extent and nature of the service issues and the 
impact of these on Mr L and Mr M.
Mr L and Mr Ms request for the mortgage to permanently switch to interest only
The Ombudsman is of the view that a lender switching a mortgage to interest only as 
forbearance is meant to be a short measure. Clydesdale had offered Mr L and Mr M this 
facility as a forbearance measure due to financial difficulties they experienced during and 
after Covid.
Mr L and Mr Ms request to permanently change the mortgage to interest only falls outside of 
forbearance and it is reasonable for Clydesdale to have treated this as a completely new 
application and to consider the request against its lending criteria.
The Ombudsman appreciates Mr L and Mr Ms view that they have considerable equity in 
the property and that selling the property at the end of the term (or sooner) represents a 
viable repayment strategy. However, on the basis that Mr L and Mr M didnt meet 
Clydesdales lending criteria, the Ombudsman doesnt think it was unreasonable or unfair for 
Clydesdale to decline the request. From the information on file, the Ombudsman considers 
that Clydesdale has tried to help Mr L and Mr M, including by offering extensions to the 
monthly interest only switches, to give Mr L and Mr M time to decide their best way forwards.
Service issues and compensation
However, notwithstanding this, the Ombudsman can see that Mr L and Mr M have raised a 
number of service related issues and that, in its final response letter, Clydesdale accepted 
that quite a few things didnt go as they should. Given the extent and nature of the issues 
raised and taking into account that Mr L and Mr M are vulnerable due to health and other 
reasons, the Ombudsman currently thinks that the award for distress and inconvenience 
should be increased to £400  as this is more reflective of the impact of the issues on 
Mr L and Mr M. On the basis that the Ombudsman understands £200 has already been paid, 
this would mean Clydesdale paying an additional £200 in compensation.
I asked both parties to provide any further submissions by 9 October 2022. Clydesdale 
responded to say that it was willing to pay a further £200 to resolve matters. 
Mr L and Mr M responded to say they still couldnt believe a switch to interest only wasnt 
possible. They said they had shown they could afford to meet the monthly interest only 
payments and didnt think that them not meeting one part of the lending criteria should lead 
to them needing to sell their family home in difficult circumstances. They also said they have 
substantial equity in the property such that they easily meet Clydesdales maximum loan to 
value (LTV) criteria for an interest only mortgage. They asked for someone at Clydesdale to 
look at their case on an individual basis and apply both financial and common sense. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr L and Mr Ms comments and re-iterated that the 
Ombudsmans review is the final stage in our process, but that Mr L and Mr M were free to 
engage Clydesdale further if they wished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as that contained within the provisional 
thoughts I shared with both parties. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr L and Mr M and I also acknowledge the difficult circumstances they have been facing.Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given 
the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching 
them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in 
mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when 
doing that.
As set out in my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) where a lender 
agrees to switch an account to interest only as a forbearance, this is meant to be a short 
term measure.
The crux of Mr L and Mr Ms position is that they cannot see that Clydesdales decision to 
not allow them to switch to interest only permanently is fair, given their circumstances. They 
point to the fact theyve shown they can afford the monthly interest only payments and that 
they meet the majority of Clydesdales interest only criteria, including in relation to LTV and 
property value. 
I do understand Mr L and Mr Ms perspective. However, it is not disputed that they do not 
meet all of Clydesdales interest only lending criteria. Im also mindful that Mr L and Mr M 
arent being treated differently to any other customers in their position.  
With this in mind, I still find that Clydesdales decision to not allow them to switch the 
mortgage to interest only permanently isnt unfair or unreasonable. 
However, given the extent and nature of the service issues raised by Mr L and Mr M and 
taking into account that they are vulnerable due to health and other reasons, I still find that 
the award for distress and inconvenience should be increased to £400  as this is more 
reflective of the impact of the issues on Mr L and Mr M and in line with our general approach 
to compensation awards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr L and Mr Ms complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc in 
part. On the basis that I understand Mr L and Mr M have already been paid £200, I direct 
Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay them an additional £200 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman