DRN-2755899
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not correctly calculate how much 
redress to pay after it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him. He also 
complains that Lloyds should compensate him further for mistakes it made when considering 
his complaint. 
What happened
The background to this case is extensive and I have set out the salient points below. I wish 
to assure the parties that whilst I have not referred to every document provided, I have read 
all the information before me. I have also listened to recordings of the telephone calls 
between Mr D and our adjudicators.  
In February 2018, Mr D instructed a claims management company (the First CMC) and 
enquiries were made of Lloyds to establish whether it had sold PPI to Mr D. In March 2018, 
Lloyds told the First CMC that it was unable to trace any PPI policies it had sold to Mr D. 
Mr D told us he knew Lloyds was wrong to say he did not have a PPI policy and that he 
repeatedly asked the First CMC to pursue his complaint with Lloyds. He says the First CMC 
pursued his complaint from 2018 until just before the PPI deadline in August 2019. At that 
point, Mr D says the First CMC told him it was unable to assist him further after repeatedly 
being told by Lloyds that he had no PPI. 
Mr D then instructed another firm to act for him (the Second CMC). The Second CMC made 
enquiries of Lloyds shortly before the PPI deadline in August 2019. In February 2020, Lloyds 
was able to trace seven PPI policies it had sold Mr D. The Second CMC then made a formal 
complaint about mis-sold PPI, which I understand was received by Lloyds on 25 February 
2020.  
Lloyds accepted that the First CMC made a Personal Information Request in February 2018. 
It also agreed that it erroneously told the First CMC that Mr D did not have PPI. It said it had 
limited information available to it, as six of the seven loans Mr D complained about were 
closed before 2000. Lloyds stated it had no record of any correspondence from Mr D or 
those representing him between the initial contact in February 2018 and until it was 
contacted by the Second CMC in August 2019. 
On 17 August 2020, Lloyds issued its final response to Mr D in which it upheld the complaint 
in respect of the mis-sales. Lloyds calculated that it should pay Mr D £20,367.69 to settle the 
complaint.
When calculating how much to pay Mr D in compensation, Lloyds said that Mr D had made a 
successful claim in 2002/3 and that it was deducting the value of that claim from the amount 
it owed him. Lloyds said that the value of the PPI claim was £3,337.30 and that the period of 
the claim was 1 September 2002 until 9 June 2003. Mr D did not accept the information 
Lloyds provided in this regard.
Mr D was unhappy that Lloyds had not dealt with his complaint within eight weeks of 
receiving it from the Second CMC. He said he was assured the matter would be dealt with 
by mid-June 2020, the end of June, mid-July and the end of July. He states he contacted 
Lloyds himself to complain about the time taken and was informed that the matter would be 
completed by mid-August.  Mr D says he contacted Lloyds and lost all patience and 
exploded at them for constantly telling me five times that my case would be assessed in 
June/July. 
On 17 August 2020, Mr D says he was assured by telephone that the compensation would 
be credited to his account that day. Payment was made on 21 August 2020. Mr D told us he 
had been further inconvenienced by that delay and had to cut short a visit to elderly relatives 
in order to visit a Lloyds branch.    
Mr D says that Lloyds caused him to be out of pocket in the following regard: 
£2,837 in additional interest on car finance. It is Mr Ds contention that if Lloyds had 
dealt with his claim earlier, he would have repaid a car loan and he would not have 
incurred further interest payments; 
£2,200 for a lost opportunity to support his fiance; 
£1,310 because it miscalculated the value of the PPI claim in 2002/3. 
Mr D also contends that Lloyds should pay him an ex gratia sum. He states that £4,500 
would be a realistic and suitable amount for the financial losses and distress Lloyds caused 
him over a three-year period. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr D, but having considered this matter at some length, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. With that in mind, I have not looked at the 
circumstances surrounding the sale of PPI. I am considering whether the amount Lloyds 
offered Mr D to settle the complaint is fair.  
It appears to me that there are two issues under dispute in that regard: whether Lloyds 
accurately calculated the value of the PPI claim Mr D made in 2002/3; and whether Lloyds 
caused Mr D any further losses. I will deal with each matter separately below. 
The value of the PPI claim 
Lloyds says that Mr D made a successful unemployment PPI claim. It provided us with a 
copy of a letter dated 11 June 2003 ostensibly from the insurer in which it is stated that Mr 
Ds claim had run from 1 September 2002 until 9 June 2003. It also set out the value of the 
claim, which was stated to be £3,337.30.  Mr D says he did not receive this letter. 
Mr D says he submitted the PPI claim in late November 2002 after being made redundant in 
late August 2002. He said there would have been a 30-day deferment period and so he 
would have only received approximately five months of payments. Mr D says he was 
overseas between October and November 2002 and that he made a PPI claim upon his 
return. He said that he did not believe PPI claims to be retrospective and that they are 
accepted from when they are submitted.  
I have considered the terms and conditions for Lloyds PPI policies. It appears to me that Mr 
Ds PPI claim would have been paid from the first date of his unemployment after he had 
been unemployed for 15 days. I cannot see anything in those terms and conditions to restrict 
a claim being paid from the date it was received by Lloyds, as Mr D believed. Im satisfied 
that even if Mr D did not claim until November 2002 as he recalls, the claim was most likely 
assessed from the date he became unemployed. It appears to me most likely that the figure 
used by Lloyds in calculating the value of Mr Ds claim is correct. On that basis, I am satisfied that it was fair for Lloyds to deduct £3,337.30 from the 
compensation it owed Mr D. I say this because the purpose of Lloyds compensating Mr D is 
to return him to the position he would have been in if he didnt have a PPI policy. So if I tell 
Lloyds to refund all of the PPI premiums without deducting the value of the claim, Mr D 
would be in a better position because he would have had all of his money back for the policy, 
as well as benefitting from the PPI claim. 
Further compensation 
It is not in dispute that Lloyds made a mistake when it was initially contacted by the First 
CMC. Mr D disagreed with what Lloyds said and maintained quite correctly that he did have 
PPI policies with Lloyds over the years. It is Mr Ds case that Lloyds aggravated that initial 
mistake by repeatedly telling the First CMC that he did not have a PPI policy. 
What I would have expected to happen following Lloyds response that there was no PPI is 
for a formal complaint to be made by Mr D or those representing him to dispute what Lloyds 
had said. As I said above, other than the initial information request, Lloyds has no record of 
any further contact with the First CMC. 
Mr D helpfully provided us with copies of documents he received from the First CMC in 
respect of a subject access request he made in December 2020. I can see from the 
correspondence from the First CMC that it provided to Mr D everything it held on file in 
respect of his complaint. 
In considering that information, I can see that the First CMC sent its initial information 
request to Lloyds on 16 February 2018 and Lloyds responded to that (albeit erroneously) on 
1 March 2018. On 26 March 2018, the First CMC wrote to Mr D to say it had closed his case. 
The evidence Mr D provided from the First CMC does not suggest that it made any contact 
with Lloyds following its initial request for information in February 2018. There is no record of 
a formal complaint being made to Lloyds by the First CMC. 
With all of this in mind, whilst it is accepted that Lloyds made an initial error in February 
2018, the evidence before me does not suggest that the First CMC was repeatedly told by 
Lloyds that Mr D had no PPI. Im satisfied Lloyds was not made aware by the First CMC that 
Mr D disagreed that he had no PPI policies. Moreover, the evidence from the First CMC 
indicates Mr D would have been aware it was no longer acting for him in March 2018. 
As I said above, in a situation such as this, where a consumer disagreed with what it had 
been told by a business, I would expect a formal complaint to be made. Whilst I appreciate 
Mr D may well disagree, the evidence before me does not suggest that any action was taken 
by any party in respect of this dispute between March 2018 and August 2019.  
Mr D says the impact of Lloyds not paying redress to him until 2020 had a significant impact 
on his living standards. He set out several expenses he says were caused by Lloyds delay, 
notably interest he paid in respect of his car finance. However, even if I could say with 
absolute certainty (which I cannot) that Mr D would have repaid his car finance earlier if he 
received redress from Lloyds in 2018, I am not satisfied that the delay was wholly 
attributable to Lloyds. Thats because I have already found there was no contact between 
those representing Mr D and Lloyds until around 18 months after Lloyds initial mistake. 
I must make clear that Lloyds paid 8% interest to Mr D up until the date he received 
compensation in 2020. The purpose of that interest is to compensate Mr D for the lost 
opportunity to have used that money in the way he might have chosen to do so. And in these 
circumstances, I think that is a fair way to compensate Mr D for the mistake Lloyds made 
initially. 
Mr D also complains that he was inconvenienced and made several calls to Lloyds to pursue 
his complaint when Lloyds did not respond to him within eight weeks. It is not entirely clear 
to me why Mr D found it necessary to make those calls when he was ostensibly represented 
by the Second CMC. Nevertheless, I accept that Mr D made several calls to chase the matter and that Lloyds did take longer than the requisite eight weeks to answer his complaint 
and pay compensation. Lloyds offered Mr D £200 in recognition of its service failures in that 
regard. Whilst I am aware that Mr D does not accept what Lloyds offered, I find that it is a 
reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
In summary, I am satisfied that Lloyds correctly deducted the value of Mr Ds PPI claim from 
the compensation it owed him for mis-sold PPI. In February 2018, Lloyds made a mistake 
when it told the First CMC that Mr D did not have a PPI policy. However, Lloyds did not 
receive a formal complaint from Mr D or those representing him for over a year after that 
initial mistake. That being so, I am also satisfied that the 8% interest Mr D was paid from 
February 2018 onwards is fair compensation in that regard. Moreover, I am further satisfied 
that the £200 Lloyds offered to Mr D is fair compensation for the trouble and upset he was 
put to when it took some time to respond to his complaint from February 2020 onwards. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr D. However, for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Mr D informed us that he had received legal advice to the effect that he has a 
strong chance of success if he were to issue proceedings in court against Lloyds. If Mr D 
does not accept my decision, he is of course free to pursue this matter through other 
avenues should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman