DRN-3270707
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. The BSPS is a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. Mr G 
thinks the advice was unsuitable for him.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
I can see that Mr G emailed Acumen in July 2017 saying he was a member of the BSPS and 
was considering his options. The email said he was thinking of transferring from the scheme 
and moving his benefits to the pension provider that was operating a new defined 
contribution pension scheme that had been established by his employer. But before making 
a decision he wanted advice, so was enquiring if Acumen provided this service. Acumen 
confirmed that it did.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr G with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£216,914.27. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose 
letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move 
to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances and 
objectives. It recorded that he was 36, in good health, employed full time, married with one 
dependent child. He owned his own home, with an outstanding mortgage of £104,000 and a 
remaining term of 24 years. Mr G also owned another property that he rented out. This had a 
buy-to-let mortgage on an interest only basis. And it noted Mr G had a personal loan for 
approximately £10,000. And there was no suggestion that Mr Gs household income was not 
sufficient to meet its outgoings.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr G was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. That pension had only recently begun and the BSPS 
benefits made up the significant majority of his retirement provisions at that time.
Acumen recorded that Mr G was considering transferring as he wanted control of his 
pension, the option of the full pension being available to his beneficiaries in the event of his 
death and flexibility as he wanted to retire at age 58. It said he was aware he would be 
giving up a guaranteed income and had contacted Acumen because hed already decided to 
transfer.
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
high medium. 
There were further emails between Mr G and Acumen where Mr G indicated hed contacted 
a different financial adviser. And Mr G has confirmed he was in discussion with a different 
adviser about his pension. But that other adviser was unable to provide advice. So, Mr G 
went back to Acumen and asked for advice.
On 8 December 2017 Acumen advised Mr G to transfer his pension benefits from the BSPS 
into a personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were 
that by transferring benefits could be taken from age 55, 25% of the fund could be taken as 
tax-free cash (TFC), Mr G would have much greater freedom and flexibility in terms of how 
he accessed his benefits, a personal pension offered greater lump sum death benefits and 
his desired level of income would still be sustainable. It said Acumen had assumed from 
Mr Gs desire to live on a lower level of income in retirement that control, flexibility and better 
death benefits were a greater priority to him than the guaranteed income offered by the DB 
scheme, which may have been higher. And so, it felt transferring was suitable. Acumen 
would also provide ongoing monitoring and servicing of the pension, at a cost. 
The transfer went ahead in line with Acumens recommendation. Acumen provided ongoing 
servicing until 2021.
Mr G complained to Acumen in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed 
received a notification from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), that some 
members of the BSPS may have received unsuitable advice to transfer their benefits. Mr G 
said he now felt the advice he had received was unsuitable. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It noted Mr G had approached it and indicated he 
was looking to transfer his pension. Acumen said it felt it had taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that the advice it provided was suitable and that Mr G had made an informed 
decision to transfer. It also said, at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 was not confirmed so it 
couldnt have reasonably recommended joining it. And so, it felt the advice to transfer was 
suitable given Mr Gs noted goals.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Acumen to pay compensation and £300 for the distress caused. He thought Mr G was 
always likely to be worse off as a result of transferring. And he didnt feel that he necessarily 
needed to transfer to meet his apparent objectives or that achieving those other goals made 
transferring in his best interests. While Mr G had approached Acumen, the Investigator didnt 
agree that he wouldve disregarded its advice. And he thought Mr G shouldve been advised 
to join the BSPS2
Acumen didnt agree. It responded, via a professional representative, saying the Investigator 
had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It said it wasnt required to guarantee that the 
transfer would be suitable for Mr G, particularly when viewed with hindsight which Acumen 
felt the Investigator had unfairly used. Instead, it was simply required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr G at the time. 
Acumen said the Investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields and discount 
rate and that these were unreliable and largely irrelevant as Mr G didnt indicate an intention 
at any stage to take an annuity. Acumen also said Mr G had made a fully informed decision 
to proceed with the transfer. 
It also maintained that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the advice so it 
said this couldnt have been recommended. And, because it was uncertain the BSPS2 would 
happen, it felt Mr G would not have agreed to this recommendation because there was still the possibility of entering the PPF. And Acumen said Mr G was against this, not least 
because of what the consultation documents from his employer had said about it being a 
negative outcome. Acumen also said it felt Mr G wouldve transferred his benefits even if it 
had advised him not to so didnt think its advice had caused any loss.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He reaffirmed that he was 
required to look at whether the transfer was in Mr Gs best interest. And he didnt think it was 
as the transfer involved taking additional risk, which was always likely to result in Mr G 
receiving lower retirement benefits, to meet apparent objectives, such as early retirement, 
that were not definitely decided and couldve been achieved anyway without transferring.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Acumen says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr G. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) Acumen was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr G was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, as Ive mentioned 
above, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These 
additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is 
that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer out of the 
scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). So, Im satisfied, as Acumen was advising on transferring out of a DB scheme, it 
was required to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in Mr Gs best interests. And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain 
why.
Financial viability 
Acumen has provided copies of two transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports which it 
instructed  as obtaining a TVAS was required by the regulator. Both of these reports, 
carried out eight days apart, showed how much Mr Gs pension fund would need to grow by 
each year if invested in a personal pension in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme (the critical yield). 
All of the calculations were based on Mr G retiring at age 65. Acumen has said though that 
Mr G intended to retire at age 58. This was referred to in the suitability report and indeed 
relied on as a reason that transferring was suitable  to give Mr G added flexibility to retire at 
that age. Ill come back to whether this was a genuine objective later. But, based on Acumen 
relying on this objective, Id have expected the TVAS to include comparisons (particularly 
critical yields) for retiring at that age to illustrate the value of the DB scheme benefits. 
The calculations of the critical yields also only account for Mr G taking a full pension at age 
65, with none calculated for what return would be needed if he chose to draw tax-free cash. 
The suitability report said one of the reasons for the recommendation was that the personal 
pension allowed 25% to be taken as tax-free cash. Indicating this was something that 
Acumen believed Mr G would be interested in. So again, Id have expected to see a 
comparison to that scenario.
The critical yield figures also appear to have been based on matching Mr Gs existing 
scheme, the BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. But Mr G didnt have the 
option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the 
scheme to the PPF. But while a critical yield was calculated in respect of moving to the PPF, 
there was no comparison to the BSPS2.
Acumen has strongly argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. But I think Acumen is 
overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been 
ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point Acumen instructed the TVAS reports 
and provided Mr G advice. Mr Gs employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, 
and these had been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS 
which enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations in September 2017. Mr G 
had also received his time to choose pack  with joining the new scheme one of the 
options. And details of the new scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the 
same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual increases wouldve been lower. So, 
based on what had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, 
were confident at that point that the BSPS2 would go ahead. Of course, its possible it may 
not have gone ahead. But given it appeared likely to proceed I still think the benefits 
available to Mr G through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into the TVAS reports and 
subsequent advice so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
Given what Ive said above, there are issues with how useful a comparison the TVAS reports 
in fact provided. Nevertheless, Ive considered the reports when looking at whether the 
transfer was in Mr Gs interests from a financial viability perspective.
The TVAS reports gave differing figures for the critical yields. For matching the full pension 
the BSPS wouldve provided at age 65 one report said the critical yield was 6.1% with the 
other saying 6.5%. And for matching the full pension the PPF would provide at age 65 the reports gave a critical yield of 4.3% and 4.7% respectively. I note that the suitability report 
referred to the higher of each, so these appear to have been assumed as the more accurate. 
Again, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits were not calculated  although I 
think they should have been. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely 
decreased the critical yields somewhat in comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have 
been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, particularly at age 65.
Acumen says the critical yield is of limited relevance and can be unreliable. And it says Mr G 
didnt want to purchase an annuity  so the critical yield is even less relevant here. But Mr G 
was only 36 at the time of the advice so it was approximately 20 years at least until hed 
likely be able to take benefits in any form from the pension. In that time his circumstances or 
plans could very well have changed. And it was entirely possible that when he did retire he 
may have wanted greater guarantees for his income. In any event though, the regulator 
required Acumen to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a 
relevant consideration here.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Acumen says 
that referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator when giving advice. So, 
has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think it is a reasonable 
additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably 
achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses 
to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I 
agree businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they are able to do so and I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 28 years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr G retired at age 
65). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
Id also note that, as part of a risk profile report produced by Acumen, it set out a target asset 
allocation that it felt would be suitable given Mr Gs attitude to risk. And the report said that 
the estimated annual potential growth rates for that target portfolio were 3.11%. 
I've taken all of this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
the high medium attitude to risk Acumen said Mr G had and also the term to retirement. 
There would be little point in Mr G giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And here, I 
think Mr G was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value at age 65 as a result 
of transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk than those he wouldve been due 
under the BSPS2. And in respect of the PPF it also appears he was unlikely to improve on 
the guaranteed benefits hed have been due. And on balance, particularly considering the 
estimated potential growth rates for the chosen portfolio, it looks more likely that he would 
have also been worse off in comparison.As Ive said, the TVAS reports did not include a calculation of the critical yield required to 
match what Mr G could take at 58. But in my experience, critical yield figures in relation to 
the BSPS2 tend to be slightly higher for early retirement. And in respect of the PPF broadly 
the same (although they are usually higher in the event of taking TFC at early retirement). 
The discount rate applicable for 21 full years to retirement, which wouldve been the case 
Mr G retired at age 58, was also lower, 4.5%. So, on balance, I think Mr G was more likely 
than not to also receive benefits of a lower overall value at age 58 by transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk, in comparison to what he couldve obtained under 
the PPF or the BSPS2.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Gs best 
interests. Acumen has made the point that in the suitability report it said the critical yields 
were unlikely to be achievable. But Mr G accepted the risks involved and there were other 
considerations that meant the transfer was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered this below. But I would just note that making Mr G aware of this risk doesnt 
mean it was suitable advice to recommend that he take it.
Flexibility 
Acumen said one of Mr Gs objectives and one of the reasons for the recommendation was 
that he wanted additional flexibility in how he could take his benefits to best meet his 
objectives. 
Acumen says Mr G wanted to retire at age 58. But Mr G says while he was obviously 
interested in retiring early if there was the option of doing so, he didnt have any firm plans 
around this. I also note that the suitability report Acumen issued said Mr G was looking to 
retire around the age of 58 although this may change in the future.  To me, this indicates 
that Mr Gs plans were not finalised  and I wouldnt necessarily have expected them to be, 
given how long he had until retirement. Id also note, under both the BSPS2 and the PPF, 
there was the option to take benefits early.
The suitability report also included a section about income requirements. In this, it was 
indicated that Mr G may look to draw tax-free cash from his pension in stages. And an 
income modeller was produced on this basis. But the fact find documents from the point of 
sale dont reflect there having been a conversation about this. And again, given how far off 
retirement was, I dont think Mr G likely had a definitive plan in relation to how hed draw his 
benefits.
The same section of the suitability report included a line assuming you desired level of 
income is £1,250 Acumen has suggested that this was Mr Gs target income. And that he 
needed to take his pension benefits flexibly to achieve this and that he could do so until his 
mid-nineties. But that figure also doesnt appear to have been recorded in any of the fact-
finding documents from the time. So, it is unclear where that estimate has come from and 
how genuine it was. 
Mr G could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take TFC 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr G had to take those benefits at the same time. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr G had any concrete need to take TFC and defer taking his income, or to 
vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more of a nice to have 
rather than a genuine objective. 
Im also not sure that Mr G necessarily needed to transfer to meet the recorded income 
objective anyway, if this was correct. Even though Acumen says Mr G was looking to retire 
at age 58, no information was recorded about the benefits he could take under the DB 
scheme at that time. But I understand under both the BSPS2 and the PPF, Mr G couldve taken benefits earlier than the normal scheme retirement age  subject to an actuarial 
reduction to account for the benefits being paid for longer. The details of what Mr G wouldve 
been due under the BSPS2 were again not calculated, although I think they should have 
been. The TVAS reports though both said that under the PPF Mr G was estimated to be 
entitled to an annual pension of £13,200.24 from age 65. That wouldve been reduced 
further if he retired at age 58 and would not have provided an income of £15,000 per year 
(£1,250 per month) on its own. 
But Mr G was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his employer had 
put in place after the BSPS had closed. And, while worried about what had happened with 
his BSPS pension, I havent seen any suggestion he intended to change employer prior to 
retirement. It was over 21 years until he was apparently considering retirement. He and his 
employers contributions to this new scheme were equivalent to 16% of his salary. Before 
even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth or Mr G increasing his 
contributions, by age 58 this fund was likely to be worth in excess of £100,000. And this fund 
couldve potentially been used flexibly from age 58, to meet Mr Gs initial needs  either by 
meeting them in full and allowing him to draw his DB scheme benefits as close to the normal 
retirement date as possible to reduce the impact of the actuarial reduction or in conjunction 
with a reduced, but guaranteed, income from the DB scheme, with his state pension 
entitlement later providing additional income.
Furthermore, given what Ive already explained about the likelihood of Mr Gs overall pension 
benefits being lower as a result of transferring, I think opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits 
under which were guaranteed and escalated) wouldve been more in his interests than 
relying on investment performance. 
Taking all of this into account, given the time until he was intending to retire, I dont think 
Mr Gs plans or needs were known and certainly were not finalised. So, I dont think he had a 
need for flexibility at the time of the advice.  And I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr G to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr G later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand that this wouldve been allowed under 
BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement. 
Death benefits
Acumen says Mr G was keen to be able to leave his DB scheme benefits as a lump sum to 
both his wife and his son, in the event he died.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Acumen 
explored to what extent Mr G was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits. The suitability report said Acumen assumed this was of a higher 
priority to Mr G than a higher guaranteed income. But I dont think that was a reasonable 
assumption.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr G 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr G predeceased her. I dont think Acumen placed sufficient emphasis on 
the value of this benefit. And this was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
The lump sum the personal pension would provide wouldve also been reduced by any 
income Mr G drew in his lifetime. The CETV may have appealed to him as a lump sum. But 
Mr G was recorded as being in good health, so there wasnt anything to suggest he was 
unlikely to reach at least his average life expectancy. While Acumen has provided income 
modellers to show that Mr G could potentially have had a larger sum available at the point he 
reached his life expectancy, If he stuck to a defined pattern of withdrawals, the expected 
growth rate in those models was 6.2%. Significantly above the discount rate (4.7%) and the 
estimated annual potential growth rates for the target portfolio (3.11%) from the risk profile 
report Acumen produced. So, it appears unlikely to be achieved. And therefore it is more 
likely that the value of Mr Gs pension was likely to be significantly reduced by the time it was 
passed on. So, it was unlikely to provide the legacy Mr G may have believed it would. In any 
event, Acumen should not have encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for higher death 
benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
The fact find also recorded that Mr G had death in service benefits from his current 
employer, which appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a 
legacy. The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also provided 
alternative forms of death benefit to his DB scheme. And, if Mr G didnt think these were 
enough and genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy, which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen shouldve 
instead explored life insurance. Which I cant see that it did.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Acumen says Mr G wanted control of his pension. But I think this objective was more linked 
to the uncertainty about the BSPS and his concerns about how his employer had handled 
the scheme. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr G was an experienced investor. And 
I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. So, I think this desire for control has been overstated somewhat and 
I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr G  rather it was a consequence of 
transferring away from the BSPS.
I dont doubt that Mr G, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr G may have 
been worried about his pension moving to the PPF or that hed heard negative things about 
this potential outcome. I also accept that, due to this, Mr G was also leaning towards the 
decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative 
perception of the PPF  as his initial email to Acumen indicates. However, it was Acumens 
obligation to give Mr G an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Mr Gs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr G that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He 
didnt have firm retirement plans. But, as Ive explained, it appears likely his other provisions, 
in conjunction with the pension payable under the PPF, wouldve provided the retirement income which Acumen recorded that he was likely to need. And he was unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, 
I dont think that Mr Gs concerns shouldve led to Acumen recommending he transfer out of 
the DB scheme altogether. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. And Im 
satisfied he may well have gone into the discussion believing that transferring mightve been 
a good idea. But Acumen wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend 
what was in his interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a personal pension Mr G was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And 
I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. 
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but while 
I know Acumen has disagreed, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going 
ahead. 
Mr G had over 20 years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be 
offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr G wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr G was married, and his wifes pension would be set 
at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum 
was taken at retirement, even if Mr G had chosen to take a lump sum. The annual indexation 
of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think 
Acumen shouldve advised Mr G to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway, against Acumen's 
advice. Acumen says Mr G made an informed decision to transfer, so it thinks he wouldve 
chosen to do so even if it had advised him against it.
As Ive already mentioned, I have seen that Mr G indicated when he first contact Acumen 
that he was considering transferring his pension benefits. But he was also clear that he 
needed advice. Given the size of his pension pot it was a requirement Mr G took advice 
before transferring. But Im satisfied here, he, as an inexperienced investor, was genuinely 
seeking the opinion of Acumen as a professional adviser.
I accept that Acumen disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr G, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr G to 
transfer his benefits, and I think Mr G relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve insisted on transferring, against Acumens advice. 
Again, Mr G was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of 
his retirement provision at the time. So, if Acumen had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr Gs concerns about the issues with the BSPS or potentially joining the PPF were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer 
knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was 
suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Acumen had explained Mr G was unlikely to 
exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could 
likely meet his apparent income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I 
think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think hed have gone against the 
advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr G has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Acumens unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Acumen should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr G whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr G. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.For clarity, Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
Acumen may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Acumen receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Acumen to pay Mr G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Acumen to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, Acumen should pay Mr G £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman