DRN-4021041
The complaint
Mr S complains Zopa Bank Limited lent to him irresponsibly. Mr S is represented by his wife, 
Mrs S, in bringing this complaint.
What happened
Mr S wife fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was 
led to believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. 
She didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mr S 
and his wife applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mr S applied to Zopa for, and was given a loan for £20,700, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £408 a month, and in 
total Mr S agreed to pay back about £24,467 over the five years, after interest was added. 
Mr S explains he and his wife were groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply 
for the loans. Mr S thinks Zopa should have checked his circumstances more thoroughly 
before agreeing to lend because with better checks, Zopa ought to have seen he could not 
afford this loan.
Zopa says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mr S and these 
showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mr S details including his 
name, date of birth, address and bank details and these didnt lead it to believe the loan
application wasn't made by Mr S.
Unhappy with the response Mr S got from Zopa, he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and proportionate 
checks, Zopa would have considered Mr S unable to sustainably afford this loan. He 
recommended that Zopa should remove all interest and charges from the loan and arrange 
an affordable repayment plan for the balance going forward. He also recommended Zopa 
removes any negative information about the loan from Mr S credit file.
Zopa accepted the Investigators findings and recommendation to put matters right.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and he thinks Zopa should forgo collecting on the loan 
altogether.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Mr S loan with Zopa is his second but also the eighth in the chain of Mr and Mrs S loan 
applications and this decision is looking only at this one loan agreement. I am aware Mr S 
(and his wife) have referred other cases concerning some of the other loan applications and 
these have been/shall be looked at under separate case references.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint. Im sorry to hear of the 
devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mr S and his family. I dont wish to 
cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable, taking account of all evidence in the circumstances relating to this 
individual case. Ive considered Mr S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome from the Investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Zopa needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr S irresponsibly. It 
should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would 
be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable and 
proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be reasonably 
expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high sum, or taking 
out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the longer term.
Zopa did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Zopa has said Mr S would 
not have been offered the loan if he had not passed its checking criteria. It explained that 
part of its checks involved reviewing the applicants credit profile to assess their income and 
expenditure, and it also used information from Mr S active credit file. 
Mr S was borrowing a large amount over a reasonably long term, but Mr S was also in 
permanent employment on a good salary, which he had declared at £45,000 a year when 
applying for the loan. Zopa used an automated check of his current account turnover to 
validate the income declared and calculated his average take home pay at £2,851. I have 
some concerns about Zopa only relying on a credit reference agency data tool to analyse 
Mr S current account turnover data and validate the income he had declared. I say this 
because Mr S current account was held jointly with his wife and both of their salaries were 
mandated to the one account. Ive not seen the actual data returned but I would be surprised 
if it failed to caution that a joint account holding had been a factor in the level of confidence 
provided by the check. 
I have reviewed Mr S current account statements and seen that his average take home pay 
between January and March 2022 had been around £2,680 a month  £171 less than the 
amount Zopa used in its affordability check. I also agree with the Investigator that, given the 
information it had to hand, its checks could have gone further still. For example, by taking 
account of Mr S non-discretionary living expenses and including the repayments he made to 
a secure loan, which had been overlooked by Zopas affordability assessment. 
Zopas submissions note that at the time, Mr S had no adverse credit showing on his credit 
file and that he was managing payments to his creditors. Mr S has shared more details 
about his households monthly non-discretionary spending, which totalled around £1,500  it 
was made up of:
Food and household shopping £300.00
Council tax £222.00
Utilities £182.00
Insurances £216.00
Phone/TV/Internet £175.00
Travel (including petrol) £190.00
Childcare £200.00
Healthcare £11.00I have taken a cursory look at Mr S bank statements and it gives me sufficient confidence in 
the figures he has provided. Noting his bank account was joint with Mrs S, I think its fair to 
say these were split equally between Mr and Mrs S. So, taking account of his share of the 
non-discretionary spending, his share of the joint mortgage and secured loan and his other 
credit commitments, his existing average outgoings came to £2,340 a month. This left Mr S 
with £340 a month before the new (£408) loan repayment. 
So, with reasonable and proportionate checks, Zopa should have seen the loan Mr S had 
applied for was simply unaffordable. Even if I were to accept Mr S overstated income is 
within an acceptable margin, it still would leave him with only £102 free income a month. 
Considering his wider circumstances  for example, running a car and having two 
dependants  and the likelihood of unplanned expenses, Im not convinced that buffer is 
sufficient to conclude Mr S could repay the loan sustainably. I would still uphold his 
complaint all the same.
Finally, Ive considered whether Zopa ought to have identified Mr S application was in 
connection to the investment scam he had fallen victim to. But the evidence from the time 
does not support the application being less than genuine  for example, the funds were 
released to a bank account which Zopa had confirmed as belonging to Mr S.  Zopa 
understood the purpose Mr S intended to put the loan monies towards was paying for home 
improvements, so I cant fairly say Zopa could have prevented Mr S investment in the scam 
 afterall, he and his wife had already secured funds from Zopa and other lenders and 
continued to approach more lenders for further funds to invest.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr S in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr S 
was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr S back in the position he would be in if he 
hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I note Mr S wants Zopa to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. But given I dont find that 
Zopa ought to have taken more action to prevent Mr S from investing in the scam, I dont 
think that is a fair way of putting things right. Mr S says he did not benefit from loan because 
the funds were lost to an investment scam. As I explained in the above, it was not 
foreseeable to Zopa how Mr S intended to use the loan funds. Mr S did have the benefit of 
the loan funds insofar as they were paid to his bank account, albeit he then transferred and 
lost the money to the scam. Mr and Mrs S have approached their banks to seek the return of 
those transferred funds and their responses are under separate consideration by this 
service. In the circumstances, I cannot reasonably hold Zopa responsible for all or part of 
Mr S loss to the scam or tell it to write-off the loan.
I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Zopa Limited should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mr S made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments Mr S has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then any surplus should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to him. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mr S to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Agree with Mr S an affordable plan to repay any amount left owing.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this loan 
(once Mr S has repaid any outstanding balance).
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Zopa to deduct tax from this interest. Zopa should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted
I would only remind Zopa about its obligations to treat Mr S fairly and offer due forbearance 
should he now find himself in financial hardship. And equally, Mr S may also wish to seek 
independent debt advice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr S complaint and I direct Zopa Bank Limited to 
put things right for him in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman