DRN-4222391
The complaint
Mr R complains that Alphabet (GB) Ltd hasnt treated him fairly when it issued a Default 
Notice with breach of contract charges for a personal contract hire agreement. 
Mr R is represented in this complaint. However, for the sake of simplicity in this decision I 
have referred to all the submissions from Mr Rs representative as being made by Mr R.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr R acquired a car financed through a personal contract hire agreement 
with Alphabet. The contract was due to end in March 2024. In March 2022 Mr R said he 
spoke to Alphabet about the potential loss of his driving licence and sought permission for a 
third party to drive the car. He said this was given. In April he said he confirmed the loss of 
his licence with Alphabet and requested a travel certificate in the third partys name in order 
to take the car abroad. Again he said this was given.
In May the car was involved in an accident and the driver was arrested. The car was seized 
and impounded by the police. On or about 25 May Mr R said he contacted Alphabet to 
inform them of the accident and the seizure of the car. Around the same time Mr R 
requested an early termination quote. He says he received it and made payments to end the 
agreement. 
At the end of May Alphabet issued a Default Notice. It said Mr R was in breach of his 
agreement and if action wasnt taken with respect to the breach prior to 21 June 2022 further 
action would be taken to terminate the agreement. Mr R made the payments required as per 
the termination quote.
Mr R complained to Alphabet. He denied being in breach of contract. In its final response 
Alphabet continued to assert that Mr R was in breach of his agreement, specifically clause 
9(m) and 9(d). It said the early termination quote Mr R had received didnt apply. It said: Any 
early termination is at our discretion, and in this case the breach of the contractual terms and 
conditions deemed this contract will be ineligible for voluntary early termination. It went on 
to say that Mr R was liable for the full cost of the Default Notice (£5,556.60). It also charged 
Mr R for collection of the car, truck recovery, and storage costs/release fees. Alphabet also 
noted the vehicle had been returned damaged and there would be costs associated with this 
as per the agreement.
Mr R wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to our service. In his 
detailed view our investigator concluded that Alphabet hadnt done anything wrong when it 
issued a default and was entitled to recover losses arising out of the breaches of the 
agreement. Mr R did not agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He made a 
number of comments in response to the investigators view to which I have responded below 
where appropriate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R but having done so I agree with the 
investigators findings, and I wont be asking Alphabet to do anything further. Ive explained 
why below.
I trust Mr R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the way that I 
have. Our service is designed to be an informal alternative to the courts. Given that, my role 
as an ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to 
decide what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint and the 
evidence available to me. Where evidence is missing or conflicting, Ill look at whats 
available and the surrounding circumstances, to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Alphabet has said Mr R breached his contract with it. Specifically the following terms:
9. The events of default referred to in Clause 8 are:
(d) any step which affects our ownership or rights in respect of the Vehicle is 
attempted or taken (including selling, parting with possession or abandoning the 
Vehicle, or someone else acquiring any rights over it) or the vehicle is seized or 
arrested;
(m) any event occurs or circumstances arise which, in our reasonable opinion, is 
likely to materially and adversely affect your ability to perform all or any of your 
obligations under, or otherwise comply with, this agreement.
In clause 8 it says:
8. Ending this agreement early In the event of any default referred to in Clause 9 
below, you will be considered to have repudiated this agreement This means we may 
accept your repudiation and end this agreement after sending you any notice 
required by law and if (if the default can be remedied) you do not remedy the default 
by the date which we will notify to you, if we end this agreement, you must return the 
Vehicle to us in accordance with Clause 10 and pay the sums due in paragraph (e) 
under Default Charges in 'Key Information.
Breach of 9(m)
Alphabet has said Mr R breached 9(m) because he was disqualified from driving. Mr R has 
said that he notified Alphabet of his possible disqualification sometime in March 2022. He 
said he sought clarification on whether Alphabet would object to him giving the car to a third 
party for driving purposes if his licence were to be revoked. He said Alphabet confirmed that 
such an arrangement was permissible. Mr R said on or about 18 April he notified Alphabet 
that hed given the car to a third party to drive and asked for a travel certificate to allow the 
third party to drive the car abroad. 
In its final response Alphabet said it hadn't been able to locate a phone call prior to 23 May 
2022 notifying it of Mr R's disqualification from driving (by which time the vehicle had already 
been impounded). Alphabet said during the call made regarding the foreign travel certificate 
for the third party there was no mention of Mr R's disqualification. 
I'm satisfied that Mr R's disqualification is an event which would likely materially and 
adversely affect Mr R's ability to perform all or any of his obligations under, or otherwise comply with, the agreement.
Alphabet said that in the event it permits a technical breach of the contract (such as Mr R's 
driving disqualification) it reserves the right to pursue a breach of contract under the same 
grounds in the future. It said in this case, if it originally permitted Mr R to keep the vehicle 
following his disqualification from driving (though it hadn't been able to find evidence that it 
knew of the Mr R's disqualification prior to the vehicle being impounded), subsequent events 
had led to it terminating the contract. 
I've looked at the terms and conditions of Mr R's agreement. In section 12(a) it says:
"if you break this agreement and we decide not to enforce any of our rights against 
you, this will not prevent us from doing so later." 
Mr R has argued that Alphabet cannot rely on 12(a). Citing Tele2International Card 
Company SA and others v Post Office Limited [2009] EWCA Civ 9 he said Alphabet is 
relying on this as a no waiver clause. In plain terms he is saying that Alphabet continued 
performing the agreement without protest after Mr R had informed it he had been disqualified 
from driving and so it had in effect abandoned the right to terminate the contract for the 
breach. I do understand the point Mr R is making. We take into account relevant law but we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable as statute requires us to do. So 
what I'm looking at here is whether Alphabet has dealt with Mr R's complaint fairly and 
reasonably. In this case Alphabet is not relying on this breach solely to terminate the 
contract. 
Alphabet said subsequent events had led it to terminate the contract. It said one of the 
grounds for this termination is the breach of contract regarding Mr R's disqualification, but, it 
said, this is not the sole grounds for breach of contract.
It appears that Alphabet gave Mr R the benefit of the doubt initially as it said it couldn't locate 
a call prior to 23 May regarding Mr R's disqualification. As I've noted above I cant make any 
findings on any legal principles. I'm satisfied that within the terms and conditions it can 
pursue a breach of contract again. 
Mr R has also argued that it would be grossly unfair to him if Alphabet was allowed to go 
back on a clear and unambiguous representation based on a no waiver clause like 12(a) of 
the agreement. Im not disputing Mr R when he says he informed Alphabet in April that he 
was disqualified but Alphabet is unable to find any record that he did, so I dont agree that 
there is a clear and unambiguous representation.
Breach of 9(d)
On or about 20 May 2022 Mr R's car was involved in an accident leading to its seizure and 
impounding by the police. The car had been driven by the third party.
Mr R informed Alphabet about this event on or around 23 May. Irrespective of whether 
Alphabet knew that Mr Rs licence had been suspended Im satisfied the police seizure of 
the vehicle means Mr R have breached 9(d). And Mr R accepts that he did.
Default Notice
Mr R has argued that the Default Notice contradicts the requirements set forth in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 Section 88, contents and effect of Default Notice. Mr R has said 
alphabet failed to provide a clear specification of the nature of the alleged breach, 
neglecting to identify the specific factual allegations that form the basis of the breach of contract claim. 
I can see that the Default Notice included reference to the specific terms of the agreement 
that Mr R has breached including 9 (d) and 9 (m). 
Mr R said that he applied for an early termination quote which he received dated 30 May and 
paid the required amount on 20 June. Alphabet said Mr R applied for an early termination 
quote online. I've looked at the Alphabet website concerning ending the contract early. It 
says clearly at the top of the website page before the application form that all early 
termination quotes are valid for up to 28 days. Although I can't say for certain I think it likely 
that 28 days applied to Mr R's quote. On the early termination letter the expiry date for Mr 
R's quote is 27 June 2022. This means Mr R would likely have applied for an early 
termination quote on 30 May 2022, 28 days before, which is confirmed by the date of the 
letter. So it appears Mr R applied for an early termination quote after the car was involved in 
an accident.
Alphabet wrote to Mr R on 27 June. It said
As per the Default Notice issued to you on 31st May 2022, we outlined the breaches 
in agreement.
You advised Alphabet (GB) Ltd that you were disqualified from driving. We have 
addressed this breach under Clause 9 (m).
Furthermore, we received notification from the police that the vehicle was removed 
from X on 21 May 2022 and this is a breach of Clause 9 (d) of the agreement as the 
vehicle was seized and recovered to Y Police Pound.
Mr R signed his agreement in January 2020 and in doing so agreed to be bound by its 
terms. I think that when he applied for an early termination quote online on 30 May 2022, 
after he knew the business was aware the car had been impounded by the police, he was 
likely aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that he had breached the terms of his 
agreement. The Default Notice was issued only one day after the early termination quote 
was requested. Mr R made his payment for the early termination nearly three weeks later. 
So he would have been aware when paying that the notice had been issued.
I believe the specific terms were itemised on the Default Notice and I'm satisfied that 
Alphabet provided a further detailed explanation of the breaches to Mr R. So I dont believe 
Alphabet acted unfairly when it issued the Default Notice and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
Mr R has disputed his financial liability with respect to the Default Notice. On his agreement 
under Key Information it says:
(e) If we end this agreement early due to you breaking this agreement (see Clause 8), 
you must pay on demand:  
(i) All unpaid Rentals, Maintenance Charges and other sums which were due 
before this agreement ending
(ii) Any Excess Milage Charges payable
(iii) To compensate us for this agreement ending early, all the Rentals which (but 
for the termination) would have been payable from the date this agreement 
ends to the end of the Hiring Period less
As Im persuaded that Alphabet hasnt done anything wrong by issuing the Default Notice Im 
satisfied that it is able to calculate the Default Notice charges based on its terms and conditions. It is also able to charge for amounts it has reasonably incurred for locating, 
recovering and storing the vehicle based on these terms.
Mr R has said that he made payments against the early termination quote but Alphabet 
noted missed payments by sending Notice of Sums in Arrears and recording them on his 
credit file. As I'm persuaded that alphabet hasn't done anything wrong by issuing the Default 
Notice and Mr R didn't pay the sums owed by the deadline I also don't think alphabet has 
done anything wrong by pursuing the payments and recording any missed payments with 
credit reference agencies.
Mr R has also questioned the sale price of the car after it was collected and the impact of the 
sale price on the fairness and accuracy of the financial settlement. This complaint point 
wasnt brought to Alphabet at the time Mr R raised his initial complaint. If he remains 
unhappy with how the final charges relating to the value of the car were calculated he can 
bring a further complaint to Alphabet so that it has the opportunity to investigate. 
I understand Mr R will be disappointed with my conclusions. Nothing in this decision 
prevents him from pursuing the complaint through the courts. Although of course this would 
come with other costs and risks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman