DRN-3648412
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund money she lost 
to an investment scam.
Miss S is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
In 2020, Miss S was browsing online for investment opportunities. She received a call from 
an individual who claimed to work for an investment broker O after she left her contact 
details on an enquiry form. She says she was persuaded to open a trading account with O 
and was assigned an account manager who helped her with the trades.
Miss S says she started with a small deposit and was persuaded to invest more funds after 
seeing profits being made on her trades and being able to make a withdrawal. Between July 
2020 and April 2021, Miss S sent over £26,000 from her Halifax account through several 
debit card payments and faster payments. She says she switched to faster payments as she 
was being charged high non-sterling fees by Halifax for using her debit card. She used a 
money transfer service and sent money to her account with the money remittance firm 
before sending it on to her trading account with O.
Miss S says she eventually realised shed been scammed when she tried making another 
withdrawal, but O did everything possible to deter her from submitting a request. She 
reported the matter to Action Fraud and contacted Halifax. Halifax refused to refund any of 
the disputed payments and Miss S referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint either. Miss S has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background above, 
Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. Having done so, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is important 
because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to protect customers 
from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene isnt triggered where 
payments are made to a legitimate investment.
Miss S says her dealings were with O. Ive done my research into O, and I think its more 
likely than not that it wasnt a legitimate trader. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the 
financial services regulator in the UK, issued an alert in June 2020 about O that it was 
operating in the UK without its permission. Legitimate firms tend to subject themselves to 
regulatory oversight. 
As Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss S was scammed, Ive considered whether 
Halifax ought to have reimbursed her any of the disputed payments under the provisions of 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Debit card transactions arent covered 
by the code. In relation to the faster payments, the code only applies to payments made 
directly to another person. Payments made to a customers own accounts arent covered by 
the CRM code. As weve been told by Miss Ss representative that she sent money from her 
Halifax account to her own account with the money remittance firm, the codes provisions 
arent relevant to her complaint.
While I find the CRM code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the relevant 
obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the law, regulations 
and good industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act 
on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or 
financial crime, it might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Halifax ought to have been 
monitoring accounts to counter various risks, having systems in place to identify unusual 
transactions, or other indicators, that its customer was at risk of fraud and, in some 
situations, making additional checks before processing payments or declining them 
altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm from fraud.
Although there was a regulator warning about O prior to the disputed transactions, Miss Ss 
payments didnt go to O directly. She used her debit card to make payments to different 
merchants, none of whom had a regulator warning. So, I wouldnt have expected the debit 
card payments to have flagged on Halifaxs systems based on the merchants name alone. 
Ive considered the operation of Miss Ss account to determine whether the debit card 
transactions as well as the faster payments were so unusual or uncharacteristic such that I 
think Halifax ought to have intervened. Looking at the account activity in the year prior to the 
transactions, I dont consider any of the debit card transactions  which ranged between 
£1,000 and £2,000  as particularly unusual or suspicious such that they ought to have 
triggered Halifaxs fraud detection system. Just in the month prior to the initial disputed 
transaction, Miss S had made a debit card payment of just over £2,000. I cant see that shes 
raised any concerns about that payment with Halifax or our service. As it formed part of her 
account spending pattern, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in executing the debit card 
payments she now disputes. 
In relation to the faster payments, the first two payments were for £2,000 and £1,005 
respectively. And there was a gap of 12 days between the payments. Given the previous 
transaction amounts, I dont consider these amounts to be that unusual for the account 
activity. The third payment was for £5,051. I acknowledge that the payment was for a much 
larger amount. But I also note that there was a three-month gap between the second and the 
third payments. Miss S hadnt raised any concerns about the initial payments to the same 
payee. Im also mindful that it wasnt unusual for her account to make payments to money 
remittance firms. Besides the payments in dispute, Miss Ss account shows payments to 
another money remitter (albeit for smaller amounts). Having thought carefully about this, Im not persuaded that an amount of £5,051 to an 
established payee  which also happened to be a money remittance firm  ought to have 
triggered Halifaxs systems. It follows that I dont think it acted unfairly in releasing the 
payment without making further enquiries. The fourth payment of £4,000, was made nearly 
seven weeks later. The fifth and final payment of £5,501 was sent two months after that. By 
the time of these transactions, the previous payments to the same payee came to form part 
of Miss Ss pattern of account activity. So, they wouldnt reasonably have appeared 
suspicious to Halifax. Having carefully considered everything, Im not persuaded that Halifax 
acted unreasonably in allowing the disputed transactions to go through. 
Recovery
Ive also thought about Halifaxs actions in relation to the recovery of funds once it became 
aware of the situation. 
In relation to the debit card payments, the avenue would have been a chargeback. The 
chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes between 
merchants and card issuers (on behalf of cardholders). The card scheme operator  Visa in 
this case  ultimately arbitrates on a dispute if it cant be resolved between the merchant and 
the cardholder. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only 
limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be 
considered valid, and potentially succeed. And time limits also apply. 
Visa does give chargeback rights in relation to investments, but those rights are very narrow. 
The only grounds for a chargeback claim for an investment-related transaction is if the 
cardholder has tried to withdraw an available balance and this isnt processed by the 
investment firm. The rules state that the cardholder must evidence this with confirmation of 
their available balance and evidence of a withdrawal request for equal to or less than this 
amount, all dated to evidence the withdrawal was done at a time when that amount was 
available. And the time limit for raising a chargeback claim for issues pertinent to this case is 
within 120 days of the transaction processing date or within 120 days of the date the goods 
or services were expected to be received (but no later than 540 days from the transaction 
processing date).
I dont think Miss S was outside the chargeback time limits like Halifax and the investigator 
have suggested. From what shes said, it appears that she contacted Halifax within 120 days 
of when she unsuccessfully attempted to withdraw funds from her investment account. And 
she was still within 540 days of the transaction dates. Thats within the time limits to request 
a chargeback under the relevant reason code. But I dont think that makes a difference to the 
outcome here. I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude Miss S had the required 
evidence (for example, a timed and dated screenshot showing all the required information) 
or that she would have been about to obtain it if Halifax had requested this at the time. Even 
if the required evidence was available, theres no guarantee that the chargeback would have 
been successful.
In relation to the faster payments, Halifax could have only attempted recovery of funds from 
the account it sent the money to. In this case, the recipient account was an account held in 
Miss Ss name with the money remittance firm. Its unlikely that recovery would have been 
successful, given that shes told us she sent the funds to her trading account once they 
reached her account with the money remittance firm. 
SummaryI know that Miss S will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the matter has 
been ongoing for some time, and shes lost a lot of money. But having considered the matter 
carefully, I wont be asking Halifax to make good her losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman