DRN-3940714
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs K complain that their home insurer, esure Insurance Limited, wont pay them 
for their full claim following a burglary at their home. I have mostly just referred to Mr A here. 
References to esure include its agents.
What happened
Mr As home was burgled in January 2022 and many personal items were stolen as well as 
electrical items. They claimed to esure, but it said it wouldnt pay in full as they were under-
insured and applied the average clause from the policy. Mr A said esure also refused to pay 
for high-value items specified on the policy for which they paid a separate premium and so 
are not disputed as under-insured. 
esure accepted the claim, but in March 2022 asked for the stolen jewellery to be valued by 
its appointed jeweller. Consequently, esure told Mr A that the jewellery had been valued at 
about £38,000. It said the policy cover for high-risk items was only set at £8,920, with £5,350 
for specified items. It said the total cover for all items was set at £26,770 plus specified items 
and so they were severely under-insured, and the claim would be paid proportionately. 
Mr A said they werent aware of the average clause when taking out the policy as it wasnt 
explained. He said they obtained cover for £25,000 as they felt they were unlikely to suffer a 
greater loss than this if they were burgled and didnt realise they had to insure their entire 
contents in respect of a potential complete loss. Mr A said he thought he could insure up to 
what they were happy to make a claim for. 
Mr A said esures jeweller grossly over-valued their items. He said hed provided esure with 
the purchase receipts, showing a total of £7,659 and most, but not all of the details of the 
jewellery. He said a bracelet purchased in 2018 cost £1,345 but esures jeweller estimated 
replacement at £6,050. He said they replaced this at the same shop for £3,000 in February 
2022, which shows the over-inflation of the estimate. Mr A said that esure has under-paid 
their claim by about £25,000, plus £5,000 for the specified items and complained to esure.
esure responded that when completing the application for a quote online, the website asks:
How much would it cost to replace the entire contents (including high risk items) in your 
house, shed, garden and garage, as new?
esure asks customers to check their documents carefully when buying or renewing a policy 
and makes clear on page one of the renewal letters and at the top of the schedule that any 
errors can invalidate a policy. esure gives customers 14 days to cancel the policy if it doesnt 
suit their needs. It said the first paragraph of the insurance schedule states the importance of 
full cover, and page 21 of the policy booklet confirms the possible implications of providing 
incorrect information.
esure also referred Mr A to our website, which states, If we think it is likely the insurer would 
have applied different terms to the policy if it had been given correct information, we may 
decide that it is reasonable for these to apply retrospectively. In some cases, this will mean 
that the consumer's claim is no longer covered. But where businesses offer consumers the 
option of paying an additional premium to continue cover, throughout the lifetime of the 
policy, were only likely to think thats fair if the consumer has understood that this is optional 
and has agreed to pay it. Otherwise, the usual remedies under The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 will be the only ones available to an insurer.
When Mr A claimed esure said its loss adjuster could see that they were under-insured as 
Mr A hadnt provided accurate information about their contents (misrepresentation). esure 
said it had treated this as careless, under the legal remedy, and not voided the policy. It said 
its underwriters have calculated the amount of cover required to fully protect the contents, 
and this would determine the maximum percentage of the claim it would pay. 
esure calculated that Mr A and Mrs K were only 32.2% adequately insured and informed 
them of the claim settlement as follows:
The specified watches to be settled to the policy limit of £2,677 each, totalling £5,354. But no 
unspecified items valued over £1,500 to be covered. Due to under-insurance deductions of 
61% for standard household goods and 75% for high-risk items to be applied. This provides 
a settlement as follows:
 
High-risk items within the £1,500 item limit = £4,870.11 (jewellery) + £856.15 (electrical).
Total after 75% deduction: £1431.57
 
Miscellaneous contents £17,900 + £2,458 (electrical).
Total after 61% deduction: £7,939.62
 
esure offered this as a payment, or replacement items through its suppliers to this amount. 
Mr A was unhappy with esures response and referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said esure acted in line
with the terms of the policy and relevant law. He said Mr A was under-insured and esure is 
entitled to pay a proportion of the claim  equivalent to the proportion of under-insurance.
Mr A disagreed, saying their jewellery was purposefully overvalued forcing them into under-
insurance. He re-stated his purchase of identical jewellery from the same place he bought 
the originals from at less than half esures valuation. He thought his complaint was similar to 
a case study on our website and didnt agree with the average clause being applied. Mr A 
requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about the burglary suffered by Mr A and Mrs K, this must have caused 
them great distress. Mr A thinks that esure should pay for all their losses. He said they 
werent informed about the level of cover they required. 
The questions asked when setting up the policy is one of our first stops when investigating 
complaints where the insurer says that the customer has misrepresented their risk. 
Generally, when an insurer considers there to have been a misrepresentation, they follow a 
methodology set out by law (as referred to above). If they can show there has been a misrepresentation that affected the cover, they would have offered an insurer can apply the 
remedy set out by the law. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
esure thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the question about the value of his contents when taking out his policy. Mr A said 
he didnt recall when taking out the policy being instructed to cover all the contents in the 
house, only being asked what cover he wanted. Ive looked at the question put to Mr A, this 
was, How much would it cost to replace the entire contents (including high risk items) in 
your house, shed, garden and garage, as new?
Mr A has said he didnt think a bigger loss than £25-£30,000 would be likely, so that was the 
cover he requested. But the question seems to be clear and doesnt provide a choice in the 
level of cover. I dont think Mr A made a reasonable assumption about what was requested 
of him as he wasnt asked about the value he would prefer to cover, or thought might be at 
risk in a single incident. He was asked for the total cost to replace his entire contents and I 
dont think he took reasonable care in providing his response and so I think he 
misrepresented his information. 
Next, I have to consider if Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation, in 
other words did it make a difference to esure. To determine this question we need to know 
what esure would have done differently (if at all) had it known the correct information about 
Mr As contents. esure has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show it would still 
have offered Mr A cover for his contents but with higher monthly premiums. Under CIDRA 
this makes the misrepresentation a qualifying one, meaning esure is entitled to take certain 
actions.
esure has treated the misrepresentation as careless. I agree with the investigator that this is 
a reasonable assumption to make as Mr A explained why he had taken the incorrect 
approach and it appears that he had not paid close attention to the question, rather than 
deliberately misrepresented his circumstances. If Mr As approach was the correct one, then 
the long-standing approach of insurers indemnifying policyholders for their risks would be 
undermined. 
Ive looked at the actions esure can take in respect of a careless misrepresentation. esures 
outcome has been to offer Mr A a percentage of the total figure claimed equal to the
percentage of under-insurance. This has been derived from the average clause in the policy. 
The remedy available under CIDRA is that an insurer need only pay the percentage of what 
it would otherwise have been required to pay under the policy, which arrives at a similar 
outcome. In the light of this I think esure has decided Mr As claim fairly and reasonably and 
I wont require it to do anything further. There settlement has taken account of Mr As high 
value items. 
Mr A thinks his jewellery was purposely over-valued to push his claim into under-insurance. I 
have seen Mr As receipts for new jewellery, but as we arent experts in the assessment and 
valuation of jewellery these arent sufficient for me to decide that esures expert has provided 
an incorrect valuation. Consequently, we have to rely on the available information, of which 
expert advice counts strongly. This means in order to challenge esures valuation of Mr As 
items we would need a valuation from a jeweller arranged by Mr A. 
Mr A referred to a case study on our website which he felt included similar circumstances to 
his own and had been upheld. I have reviewed this case to see if the circumstances are 
similar. The consumer had contents which would cost £50,000 to replace, but only insured 
them for £30,000 as they thought it unlikely theyd suffer a greater loss in one insured event. 
We found the insurer hadnt asked the customer for the replacement cost of their entire 
contents. And so we didnt think it was fair to apply the average clause or use non-disclosure 
or misrepresentation as a reason to void the policy or reduce the claim payment.
The difference between this and Mr As case is that we think esure did ask Mr A for the 
replacement cost of his entire contents. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman