DRN-2085373
The complaint
Mr M says American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in February 2000. The policy was 
added to Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card by filling in a postal 
application.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. 
Because Mr M said he was self-employed when he took out the PPI our adjudicator thought 
the circumstances in which he could make an unemployment claim were quite limited.
Our adjudicator said this shouldve been brought to Mr Ms attention before he agreed to buy 
the policy. Our adjudicator couldnt see that this had happened and didnt think that Mr M 
wouldve bought the policy if AMEX had given him clearer information about the policy terms.
AMEX disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that theres a lack of clear 
information confirming Mr Ms employment and it wanted to see some further clarification 
and details of his self-employment.
So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it still shouldve given Mr M enough information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him. And if AMEX did do something wrong when selling the policy, then 
I need to decide whether Mr M would have done anything differently if AMEX had done 
things properly.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because:
Mr M has consistently told us he was self-employed and hes confirmed to us 
(through his representative) that he was a self-employed builder for 30 years since 
1980. 
although Mr M hasnt provided any further evidence to confirm his employment status 
Ive no reason to doubt what hes told us about this. Building work is very often 
undertaken on a self-employed basis so its not surprising that Mr M has told us he 
worked as a self-employed person doing this type of work.
I dont think theres much scope for confusion about dates when this is effectively the 
work hes done all his working life 
this policy was sold around 20 years ago so I wouldnt reasonably expect Mr M 
readily to be able to send us accounts, tax information or bank statements etc to 
prove he was self-employed when he took out this policy
whilst its possible that he could obtain this information on request from HMRC, on 
balance, I feel I've seen enough information already for me to be able to fairly and 
reasonably say that its likely Mr M was self-employed when he applied for this PPI 
for Mr M to be able to claim unemployment benefits from the policy he wouldve 
needed to become unemployed due to the involuntary financial insolvency of his 
business and he wouldve needed to provide evidence that hed informed the Inland 
Revenue that he had ceased trading
so I think Mr M wouldve found it significantly more difficult to claim unemployment 
benefits under the policy than an employed person wouldve done
given his employment situation, the terms under which a self-employed person could 
claim unemployment benefits, ought to have been made clear to Mr M before he 
decided to take out the policy. On the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I cant see how 
that happened. 
I dont think that AMEX did do enough to make clear to Mr M the significant features and 
limitations of the policy before he agreed to take out PPI. And if the unemployment terms for 
self-employed people had been made clear to Mr M, I think its unlikely that he wouldve 
wanted to take out the policy, knowing that hed be paying for a key policy benefit that he 
was unlikely to be able to claim.
Overall, I think AMEX failed to provide enough clear information for Mr M to be able to 
decide if the PPI was right for him. And I think Mr M is now worse off as a result of this as 
hes paid for a policy that I dont I think its likely he wouldve agreed to take out if he had 
been properly informed.
Putting things right
AMEX should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that the PPI has been cancelled already so: 
A AMEX should find out how much Mr M would owe on his credit card account if the policy 
hadnt been added (or how much he wouldve owed if the credit card has already been 
cancelled).So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AMEX should then refund the difference between what Mr M owes and what he would 
have owed or, if the credit card has already been cancelled, AMEX should refund the 
difference between what Mr M owed when he closed his account and what he would 
have owed if he hadnt had PPI, plus interest from the closure date  the rate should be 
8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AMEX can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B If  when AMEX works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI Mr M 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AMEX should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr M 
wouldve owed AMEX something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C    AMEX should tell Mr M what its done to work out A and B.
AMEX can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount it has already 
repaid to Mr M that relates to this PPI sale.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AMEX to take off tax from this interest. AMEX must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mr M as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman