DRN-3026197
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for services in connection with the relinquishment of a timeshare 
contract. His complaint is being dealt with by his representative.
What happened
Mr F and his wife had bought some fractional ownership rights from a timeshare company. 
They were contacted by the supplier (which was a company that specialised in terminating 
timeshare contracts) and entered into a contract with it in November 2016 for services 
relating to the termination of their timeshare contract. 
Mr F used his Barclaycard credit card in November 2016 to pay an instruction fee of £960 to 
the supplier and he and his wife also made two payments of £3,000 to the supplier from their 
bank account  the first in December 2016 and the other in January 2017. They were 
notified by the timeshare company in March 2017 that their fractional ownership had been 
transferred from their names and the new rights certificates had been sent to the new 
owners and it confirmed that their rights in relation to the timeshare had expired.
The supplier stopped trading in May 2018 and Mr F made a claim to Barclaycard under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He said that the supplier had told them that a 
claim would be made for £73,356 but that hadnt happened and that had been a breach of 
contract and misrepresentation by the supplier.
Barclaycard said that the timeshares were relinquished within the given timescales and there 
was no mention in the contract or the terms and conditions that £73,356 would be refunded 
so it was unable to find the supplier in breach of its contract or terms and conditions. It said 
that it had refunded £25 to Mr F to say sorry for any inconvenience and frustration that had 
been caused and the time it had taken to resolve his claim. Mr F wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded that 
Mr F was contacted by the supplier which claimed that it would get him out of the contract 
and that he could claim the £73,356 that hed paid for the timeshare. He believed that Mr F 
should receive a partial refund and he recommended that Barclaycard should refund to Mr F 
the £960 that hed paid to the supplier for its services, with interest, but not the amounts that 
hed paid to the timeshare company to release Mr F.
Barclaycard has agreed to refund £960, with interest, to Mr F as a gesture of goodwill but his 
representative, on his behalf, has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. His representative says Mr F was advised by the supplier that an agreement 
with it was the only way that a termination and claim could be achieved and that it would be 
able to terminate his timeshare contract and would also progress a claim for the recovery of 
sums paid in relation to the timeshare. It says that the total price for both the termination and 
the claim was £6,960, the timeshare wasnt terminated but was transferred to another 
consumer and no work has been carried out to progress a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F used his Barclaycard credit card to pay the instruction fee of £960 to the supplier. In 
certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold 
his complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier and that Barclaycards response to his claim under section 
75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Fs claim under section 
75 as only a court would be able to do that.
Mr F and his wife entered into a contract with the supplier in November 2016. That contract 
is clearly for the termination of their timeshare contract and they agreed to pay a total of 
£6,960 for those services. Theres no mention in that contract of a claim for the money that 
theyd paid to the timeshare company. Mr F and his wife also signed a separate document at 
the same time as they signed the contract. Its heading says Claim Form, it says 
Estimated Claim Value £73,356 and Reason for Claim: Maintenance fee increases, 
Availability, Exclusivity, Perpetuity, Resale Ability and Investment Potential.
Immediately above Mr Fs and his wifes signatures on the claim form, it says: By signing 
this document you agree to [the supplier] referring your claim to the designated claims 
partner who will conduct all work in relation to your claim independently. There was no 
reference on the claim form to any separate fee that would be payable for the claim.
I consider it to be more likely than not that the supplier told Mr F that it would be able to help 
him to terminate his timeshare contract and to claim the amount that hed paid for the 
timeshare. The supplier has stopped trading but Barclaycard says that the timeshares were 
relinquished within the given timescales. Mr Fs representative says the timeshare wasnt 
terminated but was transferred to another consumer.
The timeshare company notified Mr F and his wife in March 2017 that their fractional 
ownership had been transferred from their names and the new rights certificates had been 
sent to the new owners and it confirmed that their rights in relation to the timeshare had 
expired. The terms and conditions of Mr F and his wifes contract with the supplier say: We 
will undertake a detailed client assessment with you as to the terms of your Timeshare 
Agreement and will advise you on the most cost-effective method of terminating the 
agreement and how to release yourself from any future oblations, charges or maintenance 
costs under your Timeshare Agreement.
I consider it to be clear from the timeshare companys March 2017 notification to Mr F and 
his wife that ownership had been transferred and that their rights had expired. Their contract 
with the timeshare company may not have been terminated but I consider that they had 
been released from their obligations under it and that the supplier had done what it had said 
it would in relation to terminating the agreement.
I dont consider that the supplier did anything that Mr F and his wife wouldnt have been able 
to do to terminate that agreement. Barclaycard says that it contacted the timeshare company 
about other claims that it was receiving and was told that the timeshares could be 
relinquished by paying two years maintenance fees  but that isnt set out in the terms and 
conditions. The claim form referred to an annual maintenance fee of £2,800 so, on that 
basis, Mr F and his wife wouldve had to pay £5,600 to relinquish their timeshare. I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr F and his wife were told by the supplier that it 
would make a claim for a refund of the money that theyd paid for the timeshare. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the supplier made such a claim or that its designated claims partner 
conducted any work in relation to their claim but I dont consider it be likely that any such 
claim would have been successful. 
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr F and his wife were induced it entering into the 
contract with the supplier by a misrepresentation about their claim and that theres been a 
breach of contract by the supplier because it didnt progress that claim. Barclaycard would 
be jointly liable under section 75 for the misrepresentation and breach of contract. Im not 
persuaded that theres been a breach of contract (or misrepresentation) about the 
termination of the timeshare.
Mr F and his wife paid a total of £6,960 to the supplier for services in relation to the 
termination of their timeshare and their claim for a refund. Barclaycard says that Mr F and 
his wife could have terminated the timeshare by paying £5,600 to the timeshare company. I 
consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for the supplier to have passed on that 
cost of £5,600 to Mr F and his wife and to have charged them an additional amount for its 
work on the termination of their timeshare contract. 
Barclaycard has agreed to refund £960 to Mr F, with interest, and I consider that to be fair 
and reasonable compensation for the suppliers breach of contract and misrepresentation 
about the claim for a refund. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Barclaycard to refund to Mr F any of the other money that he and his wife paid to the 
supplier, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Barclaycard to pay £960 
to Mr F to refund him for part of the money that he paid to the supplier. I also find that it 
should pay interest on that amount.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, to:
1. Pay £960 to Mr F to refund him for part of the money that he paid to the supplier.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Barclaycard must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman