DRN-3233413
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him wrong information which led to him 
making a financial loss. He also complains that the delay in Barclays responding to his 
complaint has left him in a worse position.
What happened
Mr A has an execution only share dealing account with Barclays. In October 2020 he had 
10,000 shares in a company which I will refer to as R. R announced a rights issue. In brief 
summary, Mr A asked Barclays, more than once, whether he would receive the rights if he 
sold his shares. Barclays told him he could sell after 23 October. Mr A sold 10,000 R shares 
in total on 26 and 27 October but didnt receive the rights.
Barclays apologised that it had given him wrong information. Mr A needed to hold the shares 
until close of business on 27 October to receive the rights entitlement. Barclays offered to 
re-purchase the shares, at zero commission, and buy his rights entitlement. Mr A said he 
didnt think the sale proceeds hed received should be used to buy the rights and asked for 
Barclays complaints team to investigate.
Barclays final response letter said that it had offered to put Mr A back in the position hed be 
in if it hadnt made a mistake and that, in selling the shares when he did, Mr A received a 
premium price which took into account the rights entitlement. It apologised for giving him 
wrong information and paid him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator concluded Barclays had acted fairly and didnt recommend that it needed to 
do anything else.
Mr A didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The call which took place on 30 October 2020 should be disregarded as the member of 
staff didnt explain its offer clearly and the offer wasnt made by the complaints team.
He was misled by Barclays and has made a financial loss.
Barclays never explained it would put him back in the same position that he would have 
been in if it hadnt made a mistake. He hasnt rejected such an offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only briefly summarised what happened here. Thats because its already been set out in 
some detail by our investigator and because both parties agree that Barclays made a 
mistake. What remains in dispute is what Barclays should fairly do to compensate Mr A.
Mr A says he wants to be put back in the position he would have been in if Barclays hadnt 
misled him. Im satisfied that Barclays offered to do this shortly after Mr A brought its mistake 
to its attention. It said it would buy back the shares he had sold and purchase the shares he 
would have been entitled to if the rights had been allocated to him. Barclays accepts that, 
when this offer was made during a phone call, its member of staff could have been more 
confident. Ive listened to the call and I find that it was made reasonably clear that Barclays 
was offering to put Mr A back in the position he would be in if it hadnt given him wrong 
information. And I find Mr A reasonably understood this. But he didnt agree with the offer 
because he wanted to keep the proceeds from the sale of the shares and receive his rights 
entitlement.
Whilst I fully understand why he said this, I dont find it fair that he should be put back in a 
better position than he would have been in if Barclays hadnt made a mistake. Overall, I think 
the offer was fair. And I find Mr A rejected this offer, by saying he wanted to keep the sale 
proceeds and he wanted his complaint referred to the complaints team.
Mr A says the phone call should be disregarded altogether. But in reaching my decision 
I need to take all available evidence into account. Ive not found Barclays was unclear in 
what it was offering, and I dont think it makes a difference that the offer wasnt made by 
someone from the complaints team.
When Mr A sold his shares on 26 and 27 October, the price was higher than it would have 
been if hed waited to sell until the ex-rights date because the market had taken the rights 
issue into account. So it wouldnt be fair for Mr A to keep the sale proceeds he received and 
for Barclays to compensate him for the rights he didnt receive.  
If Mr A hadnt sold his shares until 28 October (the first ex-rights date), he would have 
received around £8,300, based on the average price that day. And he could have sold his 
rights and received around £13,700. But this would have been less than the sale proceeds 
he actually received from his sales on 26 and 27 October  he received £23,215.
It's difficult for me to say with any certainty exactly what Mr A would have done if hed been 
given the correct ex-rights date by Barclays. And that does make it more difficult to say what 
the fair resolution should be now. But I dont think Mr A has lost out  because, by selling the 
shares when he did, he received a higher sum than if hed sold his parent holding and the 
rights entitlement after the ex-rights date.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays fairly offered to correct its mistake at the time  by buying 
back the shares Mr A had sold and buying the shares he would have received from the 
rights issue. Mr A says he was put in a worse position because of the delay in Barclays 
responding to his complaint. But I dont find Barclays acted unreasonably. Rather than 
waiting to conclude its investigation, it got in touch with a reasonable offer to put Mr A back 
in the position hed be in if it hadnt made a mistake. 
Following the investigation of his complaint, Barclays paid Mr A £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience its mistake caused him. I consider this to be fair and reasonable and I dont 
require Barclays to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth DawesOmbudsman