DRN-3286265
The complaint
Mrs Ls complained that New Mount Reclaim Limited (NMR) chased her for payment of a 
success fee for recovering mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) she didnt believe 
she owed.
What happened
In April 2021, Mrs L received a letter from NMR, advising her that a lender was about to 
refund her PPI of £540.28.  The letter enclosed an invoice for a success fee of £252.85.
Mrs L was surprised to receive the letter.  She checked her bank account and found shed 
received nothing from the lender.  So she contacted them directly.  The lender told her she 
wasnt due any payment.  After Mrs L contacted them a second time, they told her theyd 
made a payment to her in July 2020  but not for the amount NMR said shed receive.  And 
the lender said theyd contacted Mrs L directly about the claim  not NMR.
Despite thinking she didnt owe NMR any money, Mrs L says she was inundated with calls 
demanding payment.  So she complained to NMR about being told to expect a payment and 
that NMR had called her partner and failed to make security checks during calls.  Mrs L 
didnt get any response to her complaint, so she referred it to our service.  
Around the same time, Mrs L called NMR again.  During the call, NMR agreed to accept 
£200 to settle the invoice and asked Mrs L to pay this immediately over the phone.  Mrs L 
wasnt comfortable doing this and asked NMR for account details so she could pay by bank 
transfer.  NMR provided some details, but they were incomplete and Mrs L was unable to 
make payment.
Our investigator contacted NMR for a response to the complaint and to get their business 
file.  NMR didnt reply.  So the investigator considered the complaint based on the 
information provided by Mrs L and on copy documentation he was able to obtain from the 
lender.
Having done that, our investigator concluded NMR hadnt dealt with Mrs L fairly.  While he 
noted her concerns, he explained it isnt our role to decide whether NMR had breached data 
protection laws by contacting Mrs Ls partner.  Those matters are considered by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
And he said that, although Mrs L was doubtful about what NMR had done, the lender had 
confirmed their involvement in Mrs Ls claim.  And, as that had been successful, NMR were 
entitled to charge her their fee.
But he didnt think NMR had treated Mrs L fairly in the way they pursued their fee.  He noted 
the lenders letter to Mrs L referred to them withholding part of her refund for tax purposes.  
He noted NMR appeared to have (incorrectly) deducted the amount withheld for tax from 
what Mrs L received from the lender  which led to her confusion about the amount.  And he 
said their letter had confused her because it didnt make clear the fee they were claiming 
related to a sum shed received in July 2020.  He thought Mrs L should receive £50 
compensation for this  which he said NMR should deduct from their £200 fee.
After the investigator shared his view with her, Mrs L contacted us to say shed received a 
letter from NMRs solicitors demanding payment of their invoice, failing which theyd issue 
court proceedings.  To avoid this, Mrs L paid the solicitors £200.
Because Mrs L paid more than the investigator thought she should have, and because NMR 
didnt respond to his view, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
NMR didnt respond to our investigators view of Mrs Ls complaint.  So, like him, Ive had to 
base my decision on what Mrs L has told us, and on the additional information received from 
the lender.
Claims management companies (CMCs) such as NMR dont usually base their fees on the 
amount of work they do, but on making a successful claim.  So, if their customer didnt get a 
refund, theyd be paid nothing.  But if the claim was successful, NMR would be entitled to a 
fee, calculated as a percentage of what Mrs L recovered.
Lenders dealt with large volumes of PPI claims.  That sometimes meant there was a delay in 
lenders advising CMCs a refund had been made to their client.  But Ive seen the 
confirmation from the lender that the payment they made to Mrs L in July 2020 was as a 
result of a claim submitted on her behalf by NMR.  So Im satisfied they were entitled to 
charge her a success fee.  But I agree with our investigator that NMR werent fair to Mrs L 
when they were trying to collect that fee. 
Ive looked at the letter NMR sent Mrs L in April 2021.  The opening paragraph says:
We have been informed by [lender] they are ready to make an offer with regards to your PPI 
claim; you will receive a letter with and offer.  You should receive the funds by cheque or into 
your current account, in the next few days.
I understand why that raised Mrs Ls expectations shed receive a payment.  And I can see 
why she didnt link it to the payment shed received the previous year - particularly as the 
amount NMR told her shed get was different to the payment.
Mrs L hasnt suggested she shouldnt pay the invoice.  But she did contact NMR for 
clarification about what was due, and why.  Given the confusion the letter of April 2021 
caused, that was reasonable.  Im satisfied that, if those questions had been answered, Mrs 
L would have paid.
But, instead of answering her questions, NMR just contacted her repeatedly, pressing her for 
payment.  I dont think that was fair.
Putting things right
I can see NMR reduced their invoice from £252.85 to £200.  But, like our investigator, I dont 
think this reduction is enough to recognise the distress and frustration their lack of response 
to her questions clearly caused Mrs L.  I agree that the fair outcome is for NMR to limit their fee in this case to £150.  And, because 
Mrs L has already paid them £200, NMR need to refund her £50 as compensation for how 
they dealt with her.
My final decision
For the reasons Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint and directing New Mount Reclaim Limited 
to refund Mrs L £50 as compensation for the distress they caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman