DRN-1986647
 
The complaint
Mr T says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mr T bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Capital One disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons. 
The postal application form had a yes and a no box for Mr T to indicate whether he wanted 
PPI. He ticked the yes box. So, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember 
this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable.
Mr T had an existing medical condition that wouldnt have been covered. And I dont think 
Capital One gave Mr T clear enough information about this limitation in cover. But from the 
information Mr T has provided, it seems the condition was manageable and unlikely to lead 
to him having significant time off work. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr 
T about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital 
One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said. But these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman