DRN-4293235
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with an amendment he 
made to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with Aviva and had been a customer for a number of 
years. 
Mr T purchased a new vehicle and told Aviva about it on 24 March 2023. He says Aviva 
failed to update the policy with his new car details and he only realised this was the case 
when he logged onto his online account a few weeks later. 
Mr T contacted Aviva to complain. He says he was told he was still covered to drive the new 
car and had there been an accident or incident it would have dealt with it accordingly. But he 
doesnt believe Aviva would have covered any claim he might have had to make and the 
legal implications for him would have been significant. 
Mr T says the whole matter has made him very angry since he feels Aviva didnt take his 
concerns seriously  it apologised and paid him £47 back for a months premium and he 
feels this doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr T has been a 
customer for a number of years and feels he has received no customer loyalty from Aviva.
Mr T says he had to take out another policy with another insurer which cost him a lot more 
than he was previously paying. So he complained to Aviva. 
Aviva apologised for the service Mr T received when trying to amend his policy. It said the 
change to the vehicle was made less than a month before the renewal was due and 
unfortunately the new vehicle wasnt forwarded onto the renewal. Aviva said although there 
was nothing in writing Mr T would have been covered for any eventuality since it was clear it 
had made an error. Aviva apologised and refunded Mr T for the premium paid from the date 
of the renewal. 
Mr T didnt agree. He wants Aviva to apologise and pay him at least 50% of the cost of the 
new policy. So he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things 
for him. She said Aviva accepted it had made an error. In resolution of Mr Ts complaint it 
agreed to cancel his policy and return the premiums from the point of renewal. And so while 
she could understand Mr T had lost faith in Aviva, it had confirmed he would have been 
covered under the policy. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said he drove around unaware he was uninsured which left him 
shocked and appalled. Because Mr T didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain the Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent 
organisation. It is not the regulator. It is not a consumer champion nor is it able to help or 
represent consumers with their disputes in court. Instead we are an independent, informal 
dispute resolution service  we consider the information and evidence submitted by both 
parties to reach an opinion on the complaint in question  subject to our rules and relevant 
legislation. 
Having done so I think the steps Aviva took were reasonable and fairly addressed the 
complaint Mr T raised. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome. 
First I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. I dont doubt the 
frustration and upset he suffered as a result of realising his motor insurance policy wasnt up 
to date.
Its not in dispute there was an error when Mr Ts new car wasnt included on his policy when 
it renewed. Its also not in dispute that the issue with the renewal was due to an error on 
Avivas part. This led to Mr T becoming aware his new car wasnt on the policy. As these 
aspects arent in dispute I dont intend to discuss them further. Instead I will reflect and 
comment on these when I think about what Aviva has done to put them right. 
Mr T doesnt believe Aviva would have covered him in the event of an accident or incident. 
And I know thats because he feels let down by what happened. In the absence of any 
independent evidence, I have to base my decision on what I think is most likely. Aviva said it 
would have covered any incident since the mistake with the renewal was due to its error and 
Im persuaded this would have been the case had the matter arisen. And that would have 
put Mr T back into the position he would have been in had the error not occurred. 
I agree Aviva should have added Mr Ts new car to the policy when it was renewed. Im 
pleased to see there wasnt an incident but I understand why the matter caused Mr T a level 
of distress. 
Mr T says the situation made him angry and frustrated and I empathise with the position he 
found himself in. But Aviva accepted it made an error and asked Mr T how he wanted his 
complaint to be resolved. Mr T wanted to cancel the policy and get a refund on his 
premiums, so thats what Aviva did. And I think thats fair in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Im not able to say Aviva should pay 50% of the cost of Mr Ts new policy. I know it did 
something wrong in respect of the renewal but Mr T chose to cancel his policy and obtain a 
new one elsewhere, and this meant his premium was more than he was paying with Aviva. 
Mr T made the choice to cancel his policy and so Im unable to hold Aviva responsible for 
this.
I do understand Mr Ts frustration at learning his policy wasnt updated and the potential 
consequences of that. I imagine it would have been stressful worrying about what might 
have happened had there been an incident during that period. But I note there wasnt. And I 
can see Aviva said it would have covered Mr T had an incident occurred and thats what I 
would have expected it to do. I recognise Mr T feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my response. Mr T 
remains unhappy and believes Aviva havent treated him fairly. But based on everything Ive 
seen I think Aviva has done enough to put things right here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman