DRN-3378743
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mrs B met a man while playing an online game in early April 2018 and their relationship 
developed to the point where they were communicating frequently outside of the game, both 
over the phone and via a messaging app, and Mrs B felt they were friends. Unfortunately, we 
now know the man to be a scammer.
In around May 2018, the scammer told Mrs B he was working on an offshore oil rig but that 
the money he had left for a nanny to look after his son had run out and the nanny needed 
more money to buy food and pay bills. As he didnt have any way of sending money, he 
asked Mrs B to send money to the nanny  which she did.
Over the following months, the scammer then gave Mrs B further reasons why he needed 
her to send money to friends of his, including his son needing more money for flights and 
school fees and his wife and son needing money for urgent medical care. Mrs B said the 
reasons the scammer gave her were always emotive and moving, and he told her he would 
pay her back, so she sent a number of further payments to account details he gave her 
between May 2018 and October 2019, from both her current account and her credit card.
At some point in 2019 the scammer told Mrs B he needed her account details in order to pay 
her back, so Mrs B gave him her account details and, ultimately, access to her online 
banking. Payments were then made into Mrs Bs current account by several people she says 
she doesnt know, as well as payments continuing to be made out of the account.
Ive highlighted all the incoming and outgoing payments Mrs B says were made as a result of 
the scam, from both her current account and her credit card, on the attached tables.
In late October 2019, Santander asked Mrs B to contact it about a £4,000 payment made 
into her account. And when Mrs B called Santander in early November 2019 to discuss the 
reasons for the payment into her account and the payments out of her account, the scam 
was uncovered.
Santander investigated but said it had spoken to Mrs B when several of the payments out of 
her account had been made and she had confirmed they were genuine. It also said it had 
made the payments out of her account in accordance with her instructions. So it didnt agree 
to refund any of the payments. Mrs B wasnt happy with Santanders response, so referred 
her complaint to our service.
I sent Mrs B and Santander a provisional decision on 10 February 2022 to explain why I felt 
this complaint should be upheld in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Its not in dispute that Mrs B authorised the payments. She accepts she made the payments 
to the details the scammer gave her. And later, when the scammer appears to have been 
making the payments himself using Mrs Bs details, she accepts she gave the scammer her 
account details and either allowed him to make the payments or didnt stop him once she 
was aware he was making payments. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to a 
scammer, under the Payment Service Regulations 2017, the starting position is that Mrs B is 
liable for the payments and Santander doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Should Santander have done more to protect Mrs B?
Having looked at the statements for Mrs Bs current account and credit card, I think some of 
the payments made to the scammer were unusual and out of character for her  starting with 
the payment of £9,500 made from her current account on 21 May 2018.
This payment was for a large amount, and was for a significantly larger amount than any 
other payments out of Mrs Bs current account in the previous six months. The payment was 
also to a new payee that Mrs B hadnt sent money to before, used up a significant proportion 
of the balance of her account and left the balance of her account significantly lower than it 
had been in the previous six months. So I think Santander should have identified that Mrs B 
was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of this payment and carried out additional checks 
before processing it.
I accept its not for this service to dictate the checks Santander should do or the questions it 
should ask. But, particularly given the size of this payment and that it was to a new payee, I 
think in these circumstances it would be reasonable to expect these checks to include 
questions about who the payment was going to and the purpose of it.
Santander has said it sent text messages to Mrs B about later payments, and she replied 
confirming that the payments were genuine. But as Mrs B was still under the spell of the 
scam at this point, and was either making the payments herself or was aware the scammer 
could make payments, the payments were genuine in her eyes. And if Santander had 
concerns that Mrs B was the victim of a scam, I dont think these text messages were 
sufficient enough checks to allay these concerns.
Santander has said Mrs B gave conflicting and evasive answers when it asked her about 
later payments. But from the notes and call recordings its sent us, it appears Mrs B always 
said the money was for a friend of hers and mentioned the reasons shed been given by the scammer, such as his or his wifes health problems. So if Santander had asked questions 
about the payment on 21 May 2018, I think its likely Mrs B would have said that it was for a 
friend of hers to pay for the friends sons food and bills, travel or medical expenses.
As these are reasons typically given in these types of scams, I think Santander should then 
have asked further questions about Mrs Bs relationship to her friend  such as how theyd 
met, how long shed known them and whether theyd ever met in person. If it had asked 
these questions, I think Santander wouldve found out that Mrs B had met the man online, 
had only known him for around a month or two and had never met him in person. And I think 
these details would have made it apparent that Mrs B was likely the victim of a scam.
Santander is in a position of knowledge and authority in financial matters. So if it had warned 
Mrs B at this point that she was likely the victim of a scam, I think this warning wouldve 
carried considerable weight with her. And I think she would have accepted she had been the 
victim of a scam, as she did when Santander later spoke to her about it, and I dont think she 
would have made any further payments to the scammer.
So if Santander had taken further steps to check whether Mrs B was potentially at risk of 
fraud, as I think it should have done, I think the scam would have become apparent and 
Mrs B wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment of £9,500 on 21 May 2018 or any of the 
later payments. So I think Santander should refund the £9,500 payment and all of the later 
payments Mrs B made as a result of the scam.
Mrs B has mentioned that other payments out of her account, that I havent highlighted on 
the attached tables, may also have been made as a result of the scam. But as she wasnt 
sure about this, and theres no clear evidence linking them to the scam, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask Santander to also refund these payments. And so I only intend to require 
Santander to refund the payments Ive highlighted on the attached tables.
Did Mrs Bs actions contribute to her loss?
While I do think Santander failed to take sufficient steps to protect Mrs B, I also need to 
consider her own actions and whether she should bear some responsibility for the money 
she lost. And having done so, I think I should make a deduction to the refund to reflect this.
I accept that this was a sophisticated scam. The scammer spent a significant amount of time 
manipulating Mrs B into believing they were friends before asking for any money and used 
emotive explanations to justify the money he was asking for. But I have concerns about how 
plausible the scammers stories were as the scam continued over time.
The scammer appears to have mentioned a number of different emergencies or urgent 
events, and I think its unlikely all of these would have happened to the same person within a 
relatively short period of time. Mrs B says the scammer told her he would pay her back, but 
he then never transferred her any money back until more than a year after she first sent 
money to him  and even then, just a small fraction of the money she had sent to him at that 
point. And Mrs B says the scammer said he needed access to her online banking in order to 
pay her back, which I dont think is plausible.
I think a reasonable person ought to have had significant concerns about what was 
happening as the scam went on. And from listening to the recordings of the calls between 
Mrs B and Santander, it appears Mrs B also had at least some concerns herself  - as she 
said the scammer wasnt answering her questions about the money and she wasnt going to 
send him large amounts anymore  but she continued to make the payments and allow him 
access to her account.In the circumstances, I think Mrs B must bear some responsibility for her loss. And I think it 
would be fair to reduce the refund by 50% from 20 May 2019 onwards  as this is the point 
payments start coming into her account from the scammer and she appears to have given 
the scammer her account and security details.
I said Id consider anything further Mrs B and Santander sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it agreed to the settlement set out in the provisional decision. Mrs B raised 
several points in response, which Ive addressed below.
Firstly Mrs B said that, if Santander was concerned about the payment on 21 May 2018, it 
should have noticed that the previous payment on 10 May 2018 was also unusual. But the 
payment on 10 May 2018 was for a much smaller amount and only used a small proportion 
of the balance in the account. So I dont agree that this payment was particularly unusual or 
that Santander should have identified that Mrs B was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of 
it. And so I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in processing the payment on 10 May 
2018 and I dont think it would be fair to ask it to refund this payment.
Secondly, Mrs B said that a payment to the scammer on 20 March 2019, and the related 
fees and expenses, had not been highlighted on the table for her current account. And this 
payment does appear to be related to the scam, so I have now highlighted it on the table 
included with this final decision.
Finally, Mrs B asked whether the payments highlighted in red on the current account table 
were the payments to be deducted. And I confirm this is correct.
As neither Mrs B nor Santander raised any further arguments, I still feel the remaining 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons. So I 
still feel Santander should refund some of the payment Mrs B made, as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc 
to:
 Refund Mrs B all the payments made as a result of the scam, as highlighted in yellow 
on the attached tables, from 21 May 2018 until 19 May 2019
 Refund Mrs B 50% of the payments made as a result of the scam, as highlighted in 
yellow on the attached tables, from 20 May 2019 onwards Pay Mrs B interest on the above refunds at 8% simple from the date of the payments 
until the date of settlement
Santander UK Plc can deduct the amounts of the payments made into Mrs Bs account as a 
result of the scam, as highlighted in red on the attached tables, from the amount it refunds to 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman