DRN-2665552
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the transfer he made from his defined benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. He considers that Towergate Financial (East) 
Limited (Towergate) didnt give him all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed decision to transfer. 
What happened
Mr A had been a member of his previous employers DB occupational pension scheme. He 
stopped working for that employer in 2007. The following year Mr As former employer 
offered enhanced additional payments to scheme members if they chose to transfer out of 
the scheme. The employer engaged a firm of financial advisers to advise the schemes 
members about the options available to them. Towergate acquired that advising firm in 2009 
and as such it now has responsibility for the advice provided. For ease of reading I will refer 
to the advising firm as Towergate in this decision.
Mr A confirmed he would like Towergate to give him independent advice about his transfer 
options. Towergate met with Mr A and completed a fact-find to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Towergate recorded that Mr A was 45 years old and planned 
to retire at 65. That his current income met his outgoings, so he had no surplus or deficit. 
Towergate also asked Mr A to rank his retirement planning priorities on a scale of 1-6, with 1 
representing the most important feature and 6 the least. He ranked tax free lump sums at 
retirement as his number one priority; the security of his pension fund second; to increase 
his pension third; and the ability to retire early fourth. 
Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
cautious. 
Towergate recorded that the Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of Mr As existing 
pension fund was £35,674. But that his former employer was offering an additional payment 
incentive of £21,076, which would increase the CETV to £56,750, if he were to transfer out 
of the DB scheme. The additional payment could be taken as a taxable lump sum 
immediately. 
In January 2008 Towergate provided Mr A with a suitability report outlining its 
recommendation. The report ran through Mr As options including: to transfer his pension 
away from the DB scheme and take the additional payment as a lump sum cash payment 
(which would be taxable); to transfer his pension away from the DB scheme, with the 
enhanced amount being included in the transfer; or to leave his pension with the existing DB 
scheme. The report went on to explain that if Mr A were to transfer from the DB scheme his 
new pension would depend on investment returns in the future, which couldnt be 
guaranteed  which was in contrast to the existing scheme where Mr As pension income 
wasnt dependent upon investment returns. 
Towergate added that it had done two transfer value analysis reports looking at growth rates 
required to meet his existing DB scheme benefits if he transferred out. The first report was 
done with Mr A transferring the entire £56,750 pot to a personal pension plan. The second 
with Mr A taking the taxable additional payment immediately and transferring his existing pot 
of £35,674 to a personal pension plan. Towergate said those reports showed that a new 
personal pension would need to grow by 6.8% and 9.4% respectively depending on whether 
or not Mr A took the additional premium in cash  in order to match the benefits of the 
existing DB scheme. And in those circumstances Towergate said Mr A was unlikely to be 
better off in retirement than he would be if he remained in the DB scheme. Towergates 
recommendation was that Mr A should not transfer out of his former employers DB scheme. 
But Towergate told Mr A that if he were to act against its advice and to transfer his pension, 
then he could do so on what would be known as an insistent client basis. But it said before it 
would do that Mr A would need to provide it with a letter explaining why he had chosen to 
pursue that option and confirming it was against Towergates advice. It would then have a 
second meeting with him to discuss his options.
Around a week later Mr A wrote to Towergate explaining that he wanted to transfer out of his 
former employers pensions scheme. He confirmed that this was against Towergates 
advice. He also said he wished to take the additional payment his former employer was 
offering as a cash sum. 
Towergate then produced a second suitability report. This again advised Mr A not to transfer 
out of his existing DB scheme. It also advised against taking the additional payment the 
employer was offering as a cash sum. But it noted that Mr A was insisting on transferring out 
of the scheme. It ran through his options in those circumstances and recommended a 
personal pension plan to him that was consistent with his attitude to risk. 
Mr A went ahead and transferred out of the DB scheme, transferring £35,674 to a personal 
pension plan and taking the additional payment in a cash sum, which, after deductions for 
tax etc was around £13,908.
In 2019 Towergate contacted Mr A. It said that at the request of its regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), it was reviewing the advice it had given to members of Mr As 
former DB scheme. Mr A confirmed he would like to take part in that review. 
In May 2020 Towergate told Mr A it had completed the review. It said it did identify some 
concerns around its explanations concerning Mr As ability to take his DB pension at age 60. 
But it didnt think that had made a difference to the outcome for Mr A as it believed he would 
have transferred out of the DB scheme anyway. 
Mr A complained to Towergate but it didnt think it needed to take any further action. It had 
noted that Mr A had told it in 2008 that he finished most months overdrawn, that he was 
struggling to pay his bills, that he was separated and in the process of selling the marital 
home and splitting the proceeds with his ex-partner. Towergate said that it had explicitly 
advised Mr A not to transfer his pension. But he had chosen to do so anyway. It said that the 
normal retirement age for the scheme was 65 but that Mr A could have taken benefits from it 
at age 60 without retirement reductions. It said 60 would have been the most beneficial age 
for him to take his benefits from the scheme. It said that its suitability report did explain that 
he could take unreduced benefits from the scheme at age 60. And that its transfer value 
analysis also showed what pension he could expect to receive both at ages 60 and 65. It 
said it was satisfied that Mr A knew he was acting against Towergates advice but went 
ahead with the transfer anyway. So it didnt think Mr A would have done anything differently 
if its explanation about Mr As retirement options at 60 had been improved. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. That was 
essentially because he didnt think Mr A would have acted any differently even if Towergate had further explained what benefits Mr A could have drawn from his former DB pension 
scheme at age 60.
Mr A disagreed, he said that if hed been aware he could retire at 60 he might have arrived 
at a different decision about transferring his pension. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The FCA says in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption 
for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. In this case Towergate considered 
two transfer value analysis reports which indicated that if Mr A transferred out of the DB 
scheme he was unlikely to be better off than if he remained in the scheme. And it advised 
Mr A against making the transfer. But it noted that Mr A wanted to go ahead anyway on an 
insistent client basis.
In 2008 there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent clients. 
But there were COBS rules which required Towergate to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In addition, COBS required 
Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. So, Towergates 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr A had to have understood the consequences of 
going against the recommendation.
Towergates recommendation was that Mr A should not transfer out of his DB scheme. While 
I think that was the right advice to give, I think there were flaws in Towergates process and 
the manner in which it presented its recommendations. And as Ive indicated below, I think 
that confused matters. For example it twice said that if Mr A had any doubts about whether 
or not to transfer then it would recommend that he didnt do so. I dont think Towergate 
should have mentioned whether or not Mr A had any doubts in its recommendation. 
Towergate simply should have said that its recommendation was to not transfer from the 
scheme at all.
Further, Towergate also went on to say that if Mr A didnt wish to take its advice then it could 
help him to arrange the transfer anyway and could recommend a suitable pension plan for 
him. I dont think that advice was appropriate given that it had already determined it wasnt in 
Mr As best interests to transfer out of the scheme. Instead Towergate presented the 
possibility of transferring out of the scheme on an insistent client basis, alongside the 
recommendation not to transfer. I think this made it far too easy for Mr A to simply decide 
that it was a suitable alternative to staying in the scheme, when Towergate was aware that a 
decision to transfer out of the DB scheme was not in his best interests. Had it not given him 
that option at that time, then it would have placed the onus on Mr A to contact Towergate 
again to find out what he needed to do if he insisted on going against its recommendations 
and intended to transfer out of the scheme.Also, Towergate presented its advice in two separate suitability reports, producing the 
second one only after Mr A had said he wished to be treated as an insistent client. And, 
while maintaining that its advice was not to transfer out of the scheme, the second suitability 
report contained a recommendation for Mr A to invest in a personal pension plan, which I 
think sent mixed messages about what was in Mr As best interests. 
A much clearer process here would have been for Towergate to provide its advice as a 
whole, taking into account Mr As objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the 
choice of pension and Mr As desire to take the lump sum additional payment. Towergate 
should then have clearly set out in one document why transferring out of the scheme wasnt 
in Mr As best interests. Instead, it first gave Mr A advice on the suitability of a transfer, and 
only set out the suitability of the proposed alternatives in the second report, which was after 
Mr A had said he wanted to transfer out of the scheme. 
That said, we asked Mr A what he recalled from the advice Towergate had given to him. 
Mr A told us that he understood that Towergates advice was that it wasnt in his best 
interests to transfer out of the scheme, but he decided to proceed anyway because he 
wanted the extra cash being offered to him. So I don't think it would be fair for me to 
conclude that if Towergates advice had been clearer here Mr A would have acted any 
differently.
Similarly, I note Mr A wrote to Towergate in his own words in order to confirm that, in 
transferring from the DB scheme he understood he was acting against Towergates advice. 
The letter from Mr A failed to explain why he wanted to proceed against the advice  and I 
think in order to treat Mr A fairly, Towergate needed to understand why he wanted to 
proceed against its recommendation. It could then have discussed alternative courses of 
action with him. 
But having considered the information Mr A provided Towergate about his financial 
circumstances and what he told our investigator about why he proceeded, it seems likely 
that the possibility of a lump sum in cash was an enticing prospect for Mr A at that time. Hed 
told Towergate that he had little in the way of any income leftover after covering his 
outgoings, indeed he said he was regularly overdrawn. He was separated and in the process 
of selling the marital home. And he told us that he used the enhanced lump sum cash 
payment he received from transferring out of the scheme, to invest in a property. So I can 
understand that the additional payment his former employer was offering at the time may 
well have been sufficient motivation to go against Towergates advice in order to benefit from 
that additional payment, which he could then invest in property, something hes confirmed 
that he did. That lump sum cash payment wouldnt have been available to him if he chose to 
stay in the DB scheme. So, I don't think any further clarity in Towergates advice or it 
employing a fairer insistent client process would have resulted in Mr A acting differently.
That said I'm aware that the focus of Mr As complaint now is that Towergate didnt do 
enough to make it clear that the DB scheme would have allowed him to take benefits from it 
at age 60. His argument being that if it had done so he might have come to a different 
conclusion. Although hes said he can't be certain thats the case. This is something I've 
thought very carefully about. But we can't simply turn back the clock, so I can't now be 
absolutely sure what the outcome would have been if Towergates advice had been more 
detailed, but  on balance  Im persuaded that Mr A would have still made the same 
decision to transfer out of the DB scheme. 
In coming to that conclusion I've noted that, at that time, Mr A was still some 14 years or 
more away from his sixtieth birthday. Hed told Towergate he was planning to retire at 65, which was then his state pension age. And when asked what his priorities for retirement 
planning was, Mr A listed a lump sum as his most important objective with early retirement at 
fourth in a list of six. So, early retirement was clearly some way down his list of priorities for 
what he was hoping to achieve at that time. 
In contrast, at the time Towergate completed its pension review and Mr A complained about 
the outcome of that, he was less than two years away from 60. And, at that point in his life, 
retiring early might have seen a far more desirable option than a readily available cash lump 
sum had 14 years earlier. So I think the proximity to the possibility of taking his pension in 
around two years is likely to have influenced Mr As judgement at the time he complained. 
That is, his judgement at age 58 with the possibility of retiring at 60 is not the same as his 
judgement at age 45. 
Further, as I've said above, I think the additional lump sum that the DB scheme was offering 
to Mr A was likely powerful motivation for him in 2008. Towergates advice was both not to 
transfer out of the scheme and also not to take the additional payment as a cash sum. But 
Mr A did both those things. I think that's likely to have been because the appeal of an 
unexpected lump sum becoming available to him, at a time when he was looking to invest in 
property, would have been a strong incentive to take that action. So I dont think its likely 
that further discussion about his potential benefits when he turned 60, some fourteen years 
away, would have overridden that incentive. 
I also think its worth noting that the suitability report did say that the existing DB scheme 
allowed Mr A to take unreduced benefits at age 60. Similarly the two transfer value analysis 
reports Towergate referred to also gave figures for comparisons between the DB scheme 
and a personal pension plan at a retirement age of 60. So, its not the case that Towergates 
reports didnt refer to that possibility at all. And, for the reasons given above, I'm not 
persuaded that had Towergate highlighted the possibility of early retirement in greater detail, 
Mr A would have done anything differently. So I don't think hes lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Towergate to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman