DRN-4287968
The complaint
Ms B complains The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) have 
unfairly cancelled her buildings insurance policy.
All references to NFU also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its reasonable for NFU to request information to validate the claim. Ms B had need 
for NFU to adapt how it communicated with her. And I can see that it made 
reasonable attempts to do this - and communicated this to its adjuster.
NFU cancelled the policy as it said Ms B failed to provide enough information before 
withdrawing the claim. 
Ms B was taking steps to respond to NFUs questions. And was providing 
information. However, I can see Ms B said to NFU in September 2022 that she 
decided to withdraw claim  pointing towards stress and declining health.
I dont think this is unreasonable considering what Ms B has said about her condition. 
A claim like this is a naturally stressful situation, but I think claims across two policies, 
with multiple communications, particularly in the initial stages of the claim, would be 
particularly stressful. So, she decided to withdraw the claim. I dont think this meant 
Ms B was trying to be uncooperative. 
Often if an Insurer feels insufficient information has been provided for it to accept a 
claim, the claim is declined. However, its not usual for a policy to be cancelled mid-
term in these types of circumstances. And having considered everything, I dont think 
NFU were fair to cancel the policy for the reason it has.
Having a cancellation of a policy on record can have a significant impact on a 
consumer and as Ive set out above, I dont think NFU have acted reasonably in
these circumstances in doing so. To recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms B I think NFU should pay her £100 compensation and remove any 
cancellation markers it has reported from both internal and external systems.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right NFU should:
Remove any cancellation markers it has reported from both internal and external 
systems.
Pay Ms B £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman