DRN-3190359
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of TSB Bank plc when he was the victim of an investment 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Between October 2017 and May 2019 payments were made from Mr Ms TSB account 
towards what he says were investment scams. Mr M says he was dealing primarily with two 
merchants that Ill refer to as E and F. The series of payments totalled around £8,000 with 
the largest individual payment being for £2,000. All the payments were made using the Visa 
debit card associated with his TSB account. 
In May 2019 Mr M found he was unable to make withdrawals from his supposed investments 
and he concluded hed been the victim of a scam. He asked TSB to help him get his money 
back. TSB said they were unable to assist under the chargeback scheme and didnt agree to 
reimburse him. Mr M referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made some comments about the use of software to share access to his computer 
and that he was assisted in making the payments by the merchants involved. Ive considered 
this but I still think these were all authorised payments. They were correctly authenticated 
with Mr Ms debit card and he had knowledge that payments were being made. Whilst I 
appreciate he didnt realise it was a scam at that time and didnt intend to lose his money, 
this doesnt impact on whether the payments themselves were authorised. 
Mr M believes that TSB ought to have intervened at the times of the payments and that if 
theyd done so, it would have prevented his loss. Im not persuaded this is the case. Mr M 
has correctly identified various regulations and codes which do mean that TSB are obliged to 
be alert to fraud and scams and act in their customers best interests. There is clearly a 
balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and allowing customers free 
access to their accounts. But in the circumstances here, the payments were spread out over 
a considerable period of time. And I dont think that either individually or collectively they 
were so unusual that its reasonable to have expected TSB to have intervened at the times 
they were made. 
And whilst Ive seen that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning about F 
in May 2018, by this point all the payments that had gone directly to F had already been 
made. So TSB couldnt have used this warning as the basis for knowing of a potential 
problem with the payments. 
Given the spending was on a debit card the only option for a refund would have been the 
chargeback scheme. TSB are bound by the scheme operators rules which in this case is 
Visa. Being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the cardholder to a refund 
through the chargeback scheme. 
The most likely route for a potentially successful chargeback would have been on the basis 
of the merchants involved failing to allow Mr M to withdraw any available funds. The majority 
of the payments involved didnt go directly to E or F. They predominantly went via what 
appear to be genuine crypto-currency exchanges. And a chargeback can only be made to 
the merchant that received the payment. So it wouldnt be possible to raise a chargeback 
against F or E in relation to those payments. 
And even if I were to consider chargebacks against the crypto-currency exchanges 
themselves, there is no suggestion that they didnt convert Mr Ms payments and forward 
them as requested. So there isnt any prospect of such a chargeback being successful. 
Some of Mr Ms payments did go directly to F. But there are very strict evidential 
requirements under the chargeback scheme. It would have required evidence of an available 
balance along with a withdrawal request for the same (or a lower) amount on the same date. 
And as Mr M didnt have that evidence, this too was unfortunately not an option. 
Overall, I think TSBs conclusion that there were no options available to them to assist Mr M 
in recovering his money that had any chance of succeeding was reasonable. It follows that 
them not pursuing any chargeback claim was a reasonable exercise of their discretion here. 
Im of course sorry to hear Mr M lost such a significant amount of money. But as I dont think 
TSB are responsible for this, I cant fairly tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman