DRN-4354451
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc has blocked a transaction and has restricted her 
access to her account.
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs P instructed an international transfer with Santander, but this payment 
wasnt made. Santander instead blocked the transaction and restricted Mrs Ps access to her 
account. Santander wrote to Mrs P asking for more information about the payment and she 
was asked to attend a branch with identification. 
Mrs P went to the branch with identification and was asked further questions. Santander was 
concerned about what Mrs P said, so it called the police. The matter ended with Santander 
declining to make the transaction and with Mrs Ps account continuing to be restricted 
because it had no proof of what the funds were for.
Mrs P complained to Santander about this, but it maintained its position. So she brought her 
complaint to this service, where one of our investigators looked into things. Initially, they 
thought that Santander had acted correctly here and treated Mrs P fairly. Mrs P disagreed 
and responded with some further points, which our investigator then looked into.
Our investigator still felt that Santander had reasonable concerns about the payment in 
question here and that Mrs P still hadnt provided evidence of the reasons behind the 
payment being genuine. But, they did think that that continuing blocks and restrictions on the 
account were causing problems and that B could do more to help Mrs P use her account in a 
safe way. So they said that Mrs P and Santander should discuss how she can use her 
account for day-to-day spending while also continuing to keep the amount in dispute 
ringfenced from use. They said that Santander should pay Mrs P £250 for the delays in 
reaching a fair outcome like this.
Santander agreed with this, but Mrs P didnt. She said she needed the money desperately to 
pay for building works and remained very unhappy with how Santander had dealt with the 
situation. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that a bank should generally follow its customers instructions, 
unless there is good reason not to. Thatll be usually be explained in the terms and 
conditions of an account which will say that a bank can refuse a payment where it suspects 
a payment may relate to fraud. So here, Santander decided that it wasnt going to just make 
the payment Mrs P wanted to make. Instead, it wanted more information about this to be 
sure that the payment was genuine and that Mrs P wasnt being defrauded.
This is a position that Santander is entitled to take and in deciding whether its fair, Ive taken 
into account the relevant rules and guidelines, along with good industry practice at the time. 
There are general principles that say that a bank should conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers. 
As a matter of good industry practice, Id expect a bank like Santander to be monitoring 
accounts and payments to identify and prevent transactions that could involve fraud, or be 
the result of a scam - along with identifying and assisting vulnerable consumers (including 
those at risk of financial exploitation).
In my view, thats what Santander was doing when it declined to immediately make this 
transaction here. The payment was an international transfer for a relatively high amount in 
the context of Mrs Ps normal account usage. This meant that Santander wanted some 
further information about the transfer to be sure that it was legitimate and genuine and that 
Mrs P wasnt putting herself in any potential harm by making it.
The questions that Santander asked were, in my view, proportionate and reasonable. Mrs P 
has provided some inconsistent information about the reasons behind the payment here, but 
she seems to have eventually confirmed that it is intended to fund building works. Santander 
has asked for proof of these works, which is a reasonable request and one which I think a 
customer would generally be able to evidence in some way. But Mrs P has never provided 
this evidence and given all the circumstances here  I think its fair that it continues to block 
the payment until she provides further evidence that may satisfy Santander that this is a 
genuine payment. 
Mrs P is also unhappy that she was asked to attend a branch and that the police were 
called. But asking her to attend a branch is a reasonable step to allow Santander to see any 
evidence and identification documents she may have had and also to discuss the situation 
with her. While Mrs P provided her identification, the information and answers she provided 
around the transfer caused Santander some concern. So it called the police.
Thats in line with the Banking Protocol  introduced in late 2016 and rolled out more widely 
in the UK during 2017. This protocol allows branch staff who may suspect that a customer is 
at risk of financial harm or potential fraud, to directly contact local police who will attend a 
branch. So while I realise that Mrs P thinks that how Santander handled this was 
embarrassing and disproportionate  I think that in the circumstances, it was just following 
the protocol in a fair way that was in Mrs Ps best interests, even though I know she sees it 
very differently.
So Im satisfied that, in all the circumstances here, Santander has acted fairly and 
reasonably in not making this transfer. It follows that I wont be asking it to do any more in 
relation to that. But, as our investigator has pointed out  Santander could have explored 
what it could do to give Mrs P access to her account for day-to-day purposes beyond just 
this transaction. Santander accepts this and has now agreed to discuss the situation with 
Mrs P to see what it can do to help her with this and has agreed to pay £250 for not doing 
this sooner.
In my view, this is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. Mrs P now has an 
opportunity to get access to her account, even if Santander isnt willing to make the transfer 
she wants. Its agreed to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience for not doing 
this sooner. I dont see any reason that I can tell Santander to do any more than this. I can 
only encourage Mrs P to speak to Santander about agreeing a way forward where she can 
use the account for day-to-day reasons, even if that doesnt mean that the transfer will be 
made.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should discuss with Mrs P a way she can access 
her account for day-to-day spending and pay her £250 for not doing this sooner. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman