DRN-4153823
The complaint
Mr D says he was mis-sold a loan from My Finance Club Limited because the term of the 
loan wasnt what he expected.
Mr D is also unhappy with the way he was treated after he informed My Finance Club about 
his disability and the news of a family members declining health.
What happened
Mr D was given one loan from My Finance Club, which was applied for through a credit
broker. Mr D was advanced £340 on 16 August 2022 and was due to make one payment of
£433.46 on 23 September 2022.
As of January 2023, My Finance Club has confirmed Mr D hasnt made any repayments and
now owes a total of £680.
On 13 September 2022, Mr D contacted My Finance Club because he had realised, he was
due to repay the loan with one repayment. This is different to what he says was agreed with
the broker. Mr D also says during this contact he told My Finance Club that a family member
had been diagnosed with a terminal illness and Mr D told them about his own disability. He
says he was then treated unfairly.
Mr D says at this time he was told that there was nothing My Finance Club could do for him
apart offering a repayment plan that would cost him more and would lead to adverse
information on his credit file. Mr D also says My Finance Club failed to make reasonable
adjustments or factored in the news he received about the family member.
My Finance Club issued a final response letter which outlined the timeline of events. It also
said it wouldnt uphold the complaint. Mr D didnt agree with the outcome and referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold it. He concluded the
broker may have made an error, but he thought the information My Finance Club provided to
Mr D made it clear what the loan term was.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. Mr D made a number of points, some
about the service he had received from the Financial Ombudsman Service  these have
already been looked at as part of a complaint  so I wont be revisiting those. However, Mr D
did say:
No reference in the assessment was made to the way that he was treated after he
told My Finance Club about his circumstances.
Mr D is a vulnerable consumer, and My Finance Club hasnt assisted him.
The adjudicator, then sent a second assessment to Mr D, this time dealing with what
happened after Mr D had told My Finance Club about his situation. At this point, the
adjudicator explained that there were two calls on the day Mr D raised this complaint but 
only the first call could be provided by My Finance Club.
The adjudicator thought it was reasonable on the first phone call that after finding out about
Mr Ds family members health My Finance Club offered a repayment plan. He was also
satisfied My Finance Club adjusted its complaint process after being told of Mr Ds disability.
The adjudicator also heard on the call that My Finance Club would freeze contact with
Mr D for 30 days after the complaint was lodged. Finally, the adjudicator thought it was fair
that adverse information was reported to the credit reference agencies because this
accurately reflected the conduct of the account.
My Finance Club responded and wanted the ombudsman to be aware of the following
points;
Mr D had to opt into the application.
Mr D had to confirm he agreed to the loan term and the income and expenditure 
information he provided was accurate.
Mr D had to confirm he had read all the information and had understood it.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I then issued
the first provisional decision which explained the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint in part. Both parties were then given an opportunity to provide any further 
comments or evidence for my consideration.
My Finance Club says it was prepared to accept the findings as outlined in the first
provisional decision. However, it pointed out that so far Mr D hasnt come to any
arrangement with it to repay the loan. My Finance Club has also said that it is prepared to
pay the £100 compensation but to assist Mr D reduce what he owes, My Finance Club
asked whether it could use the compensation amount to decrease Mr Ds outstanding
balance.
Mr D responded, to say that he wanted to understand why the award of £100 is fair given 
what the guidance says on our website about payments for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D explained, given the impact on him the award ought to have been higher. Mr D
provided some further information about what the impact was on him as a result of the calls
from My Finance Club.
Having thought about what Mr D provided I decided to issue a second provisional
decision to reconsider the award of compensation that My Finance Club ought to pay and I 
explained in that second provisional decision the reasons why I had planned to increase the 
award to Mr D to £300. 
I gave both parties time to respond to the second provisional, but responses needed to have 
been received no later than 19 May 2023. 
Mr D emailed to let us know that he had no further comments and nothing further to provide. 
My Finance Club responded and Ive summarised its response below:
It is concerned that Mr D wont repay the money that he borrowed and therefore it 
has requested to use the proposed redress payment of £300 to reduce the amount 
outstanding. It further wishes to use the £300 to reduce the balance because the account is now 
nine months in arrears and no attempt  as far as My Finance Club is concerned has 
been made to repay the debt. 
By using the redress to offset the balance that would help reduce the amount Mr D 
will need to pay My Finance Club and will assist him with any repayment plan he may 
require. If My Finance Club was able to offset the balance it would leave only 
£143.36 left to pay. 
This may improve Mr Ds position in the short term because it would enable this 
balance to be cleared more quickly. 
My Finance Club confirmed the default hasnt been formally registered with the credit 
refence agencies due to the ongoing complaint. But My Finance Club has asked for 
guidance about what may happen if Mr D doesnt engage with it moving forward in 
terms of collection processes and activities. But the account is showing in arrears 
with the credit refence agencies. 
A copy of findings that were reached in the second provisional findings follows in smaller font 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my second provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have split this decision into two parts. The first part will deal with what happened when the
loan was granted. But to be clear, this decision does not deal with whether the loan was
affordable because that wasnt Mr Ds complaint.
The second part will deal with what happened after Mr D raised his complaint and the help
and support (if any) that was offered to him.
Approval of the loan
Mr D has provided details of his health problems and the treatment that he has sought for it.
I hope Mr D is in a better space now and things have improved for him.
Mr D applied for a loan through a credit broker. I want to be clear, that I cant consider
anything, in this decision about the actions (or inactions) of the credit broker. I can only
consider what My Finance Club did as part of the loan application.
Ive considered what Mr D says happened, especially around the text message he received
to complete the application. Ive also considered what My Finance Club sent including
the process that wouldve been undertaken by Mr D to be granted the loan.
Ive thought about all of these things, and having done so, I dont think, in this case,
My Finance Club made an error when Mr D was approved for the loan, and Ive explained
why below.
My Finance Club has explained the process Mr D wouldve gone through in order to be
approved for the loan. As part of that process, it has provided screen shots and a walk -
through guide for the steps that Mr D wouldve gone through. Ive highlighted the key steps
below  to be clear Ive not included all the steps as some are not relevant to my
consideration of the complaint.
1. An email and a text message was sent to Mr D because the application hadnt
been fully completed. Ive seen a copy of an email sent to Mr D that explained he had
been approved for a £340 loan and he had to click on a link to proceed. I do accept
that this email doesnt outline the proposed repayment term.
2. Mr D wouldve been directed to a page for him to verify his card details for,amongst other things, the continuous payment authority to be set up.
3. Mr D then wouldve been directed to a new page, which My Finance Club says
wouldve showed the loan amount and loan term  which wouldve appeared in an
orange box with the term displayed as the number of days. To progress the
application Mr D wouldve needed to have clicked a box that says confirm
4. Mr D wouldve needed to have ticked a box a number of boxes and then click
confirm after being provided with a number of documents including the credit
agreement.
5. Under separate email cover, Mr D received the credit agreement, pre-contract
information and the adequate explanation document. My Finance Club has shown
these documents were opened at 01:44 am and so were likely received by Mr D.
I accept that Mr D was clearly shocked to discover that the loan was due to be repaid at the
end of September 2022, when he believed the loan was to be repaid over a three- or four-
month period.
However, having looked through the walk-through guide and considered the information
My Finance Club provided Mr D as part of his application, Im satisfied that it gave Mr D
enough information for him to have made an informed choice about the loan which included
the term. I say that because he was given this information a number of times through the
application process. And having received the information, Mr D still chose to proceed with it.
I just want to add that as part of his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr D
has provided some detail of his mental health problems and the treatment sought as well as
the adjustments he says need to be made  which is that information should be provided in a
straightforward and simple manner. My Finance Club didnt know of this until he raised his
complaint, so I cant fairly say that My Finance Club ought to have amended or adjusted the
loan application process because it was unaware of Mr Ds disability at the time the loan was
applied for.
I therefore do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about the loan application.
Raising the complaint
There is however, a second element of the complaint. Which is what happened as part of the
complaint process and what if anything My Finance Club did after it was made aware of
Mr Ds disability. This element of the complaint is linked to the first part of the complaint and
was raised by Mr D when he submitted his complaint form to the Finance Ombudsman
Service.
Both parties accept that on the day the complaint was raised there were two phone calls.
Mr D has said that the two phone calls were contradictory in nature. Mr D says he was given
2 different outcomes on 2 different calls. He also says that My Finance Club hasnt made
reasonable adjustments, the agent was rude, and he has discriminated against him.
What I do know, is on the date Mr D made his complaint - 13 September 2022 - there were
two phone calls between himself and My Finance Club and following the second call an
email was sent by My Finance Club  the final response to his case. It has provided a
recording of the first phone call as well as a copy of the email  which was the final response
letter which it says was sent shortly after the second phone call had taken place.
However, My Finance Club says the second call cant be provided due to it being corrupted.
I accept that this will be disappointing to Mr D, but ultimately, we work on a good faith basis,
so if a consumer or a lender / business says information cant be provided, then we do have
to accept that. So, I dont know what was discussed on this call. But the follow-up email
which I must assume reflects the content of the phone call, does not provide contradictory
information.
First telephone callThis call is the first time that My Finance Club were told about Mr Ds disability and so from
this point in time it had to consider how best to deal with Mr D and how to make any
reasonable adjustments.
A copy of this telephone call has been provided and Ive listened to it. In summary Mr D does
explain his disability to My Finance Club and initially Mr D makes it clear it would help if the
complaint could be taken from the phone call rather than him having to visit the My Finance
Clubs website. The agent then agrees to listen to the call recording later in order to set the
complaint up for Mr D. I consider, at this point My Finance Club acted reasonably.
My Finance Clubs agent also explains why Mr D owes what is due and after being told
about his financial difficulties offers Mr D a repayment plan. I also accept this was the correct
course of action to take, considering what My Finance Club knew at the time. However, Mr D
didnt seem to be happy that adverse credit file information would be recorded on his credit file and 
secondly, if he needed a repayment plan, he would be charged extra interest.
I come to the extra interest below, but it was right of My Finance Club to explain that a
repayment plan would be recorded on Mr Ds credit file. Afterall, unless a loan (or any other
type of credit) is repaid in line with the credit agreement then adverse information will be
recorded. This is a well-established approach, and it complies with the guidance by the
Information Commissioners Office.
My Finance Club has also explained that following this phone call it updated its system to
reflect the fact that Mr D was a vulnerable consumer and again this was the right course of
action to take.
Mr D was said he was given two different outcomes. Both the call and the final response
letter say broadly similar things. In as much as the balance was due to be paid on the due
date but some further steps were taken in the email. For example, My Finance Club
cancelled Mr Ds payment method. It also reinforced that Mr D would incur extra interest and
have information recorded on his credit file.
Help and support
As Ive said above, I dont think it was unfair for My Finance Club to offer Mr D a repayment
plan. After all Mr D, was expecting to make payments over a three or four month period.
However, it does seem, now his situation had changed due to recent news about a family
member  based on what Mr D said in the call this was going to put significant strain on his
finances, and he explained this to My Finance Club.
On the first call, My Finance Club offered to freeze contact for 30 days, which again, I think
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances especially in light of what it was told about
Mr Ds family member.
As Ive said the offer of a repayment plan was a fair course of action. But My Finance Club
also explained that interest would still accrue on the balance  Ive checked, and this is in
line with the terms and condition of the loan as outlined in the credit agreement. So, I agree
with My Finance Club that in principle it could add further interest.
But in this case, I dont think it was fair or the right thing to do. The relevant guidance 
which can be found in the Consumer Credit Source book (CONC) - says in that Mr D needed
to be treated fairly (CONC 7.3.2).
My Finance Club knew that Mr D needed adjustments and initially it made these, but it also
knew he was going to have financial difficulties. CONC 7.3.5 outlines some of the steps My
Financed Club needed to take account of what CONC says in relation to the help and
support:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficultiesand is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token
repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if
interest and charges continue to be applied);
In this case, given what My Finance Club knew about Mr D, I do think My Finance Club
ought to have capped the interest that Mr D was due to pay at the amount outlined the credit
agreement. So, My Finance Club shouldnt collect more than £443.36. I say this because
Mr D contacted My Finance Club around the repayment date, and so the above amount was
already in effect due.
However, what I dont think is fair, is that knowing about Mr Ds situation that My Finance Club should 
then carry-on charging extra interest, fees and charges. It knew and accepted Mr D is a vulnerable 
customer and was also having financial difficulties. It wouldve been fairer and of greater assistance to 
Mr D to have stopped the charges at this point in time. Instead, Mr D now owes My Finance Club 
£680  which is the maximum amount he can owe under the cost cap.
Just briefly, the cost cap was put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority to limit the
amount a consumer can owe to a high-cost short term loan provider  such as My Finance
Club. This was introduced in 2015 and means that a lender cannot charge more than 100%
of the loan in interest fees and charges. For example, on a £100 loan, the most that can be
repaid by a consumer is £200.
I am therefore intending to partly uphold the complaint and ask My Finance Club to reduce
the amount Mr D currently owes it.
In addition, on the telephone call I have been given the agent explained that contact would
be frozen for 30 days to allow the complaint to be investigated. However, looking at the
contact notes provided by My Finance Club this doesnt appear to have happened. I can see
pretty much every day from when the complaint was raised in September 2022 to
January 2023 Mr D received some sort of communication either an email or text which
provided an update on the loan and or requesting him to speak to My Finance Club to repay
what was owed. Even though My Finance Club knew that Mr D was in financial difficulties
and was vulnerable  because it had marked its internal systems to reflect this.
Given Mr D was vulnerable, it is clear the communication that carried on when
My Finance Club said it wouldnt contact him had a detrimental impact on him. He sent the
Finance Ombudsman several emails and had a number of telephone calls where he outlined
the impact of the continued contact and the effect this had been having on his mental health.
Mr D recently explained what while My Finance Club was aware of what has happening  in
terms of a recent family members terminal diagnoses he also provided further information
about the care and support that he provides to another family member as well as the
treatment he received earlier on in 2022 as a result of his mental health. I dont go into too
much detail about this here to respect Mr Ds privacy.
Clearly, Mr D was in a vulnerable position at the time due to a number of external factors but
My Finance Club was partly aware of these and so Mr D having to deal with the calls and
messages received from My Finance Club compounded what as already an extremely
stressful and distressing period of time for him.
Im therefore satisfied My Financial Club has caused Mr D additional distress and
inconvenience by contacting him during a time that was already stressful for Mr D, and I
dont think the pervious suggested award of £100 was reflective of that  given what Mr D
has recently provided and explained about his health. So, I am planning instead to increase
the suggested award to £300.
Ive also had to consider, that ultimately, My Finance Club only agreed to hold contact for 30
days, which while was the correct course of action to take, it wouldnt have been
unreasonable for it to then to start to make enquires with Mr D about paying down what was
owed. I accept that there was a dispute about the total amount owing, but there is no disputethat Mr D would owe My Finance Club something.
I accept Mr D may also be disappointed by this outcome, as the complaint hasnt been fully
upheld. But, given the conclusions Ive reached about how he came to have the loan I dont
think its fair for My Finance Club to make this loan interest free, because he accepted he
applied for the loan and was expecting it to be repaid over three or four months. Therefore
he was expecting to make some monthly repayments and be charged some interest.
Offsetting the compensation payment
I understand why My Financed Club would like to use the proposed redress to offset what it
is owed. However, this payment was recommended because of the action of My Finance
Club in its dealings with Mr D. Generally, I dont think in those situations it is fair to use the
compensation for distress to be used to offset the balance. Of course, Mr D may choose to
use the refund to offset the balance  which he is of course free to do.
I also accept that no payments have been made to date, and there is still going to be a
balance outstanding that Mr D will need to repay. So, Mr D may wish to contact
My Finance Club to discuss a way forward once this complaint has been settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D didnt have anything further to add whereas My Finance Clubs main concerns are 
around the redress payment as well as what happens moving forward. So, it does seem to 
me that it does agree with the proposed redress in as much as it will cap the amount Mr D 
owes it as well as pay compensation. 
But what My Finance Club has asked, is given that Mr D hasnt made any repayments to 
date (or come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan) that it should be able to use the 
compensation payment to offset the balance Mr D currently has. 
I do understand why my Finance Club wishes to use it to offset  especially as that amount 
would clear the majority of Mr Ds debt and only leave a small sum outstanding to pay. 
However, I do have to consider, that the payment for distress and inconvenience is due to 
the fact that something went wrong with the communication between Mr D and 
My Finance Club. 
And having thought about this, and our usual approach to how compensation is paid, I am 
still concluding that the payment should be made directly to Mr D. However, should Mr D 
wish to use it offset his balance that this is something he can do  and something he may 
wish to carefully consider. 
I accept My Finance Club has some concerns about Mr Ds willingness to engage with it to 
repay what is owed  and it is concerned that it may not recover the money. However, I can 
only say that this decision explains that no error was made when the loan was approved, 
and My Finance Club can collect from Mr D the amount as outlined in the credit agreement. 
And both parties should work together to agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan  if this 
is something that Mr D requires.  
I thank My Finance Club for confirming that the default hasnt yet been reported to the credit 
file  although arrears are showing. So as part of putting things right, that also will also need 
to be reported. Moving forward, My Finance Club should report an accurate reflection of the 
conduct of the account.I appreciate it wants guidance as to whether a new default notice can be issued  or a 
default applied at a later date. But that is really outside of the scope of this decision, because 
I cant say what will or will not happen in the future.
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons and Ive 
outlined below what My Finance Club needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
My Finance Club has confirmed that while the default notice was issued it hasnt been 
registered with the credit reference agencies. So, there will be no default notice to remove. 
But it will need to remove other adverse credit file information it has reported. 
But, what Mr D does need to be aware of, is that if that as he hasnt repaid the loan and may 
well need a repayment plan to clear what is owed. I dont think it would be unreasonable, 
moving forward for My Finance Club to record how Mr D accurately repays the loan. For 
example, should a repayment plan be needed, it is likely to be fair and reasonable that this is 
recorded with the credit reference agencies. But to be clear, I am making no finding on 
whether any possible future adverse information will be fairly recorded.
In order to put things right My Finance Club should in addition to what it has already agreed
to do in response to the first provisional decision:
Collect no more from Mr D than was outlined in the credit agreement for the loan-
£443.36.
Try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan to repay what is owed. But Id
remind My Finance Club of its regulatory obligation to treat Mr D fairly and with
forbearance. It will also need to consider whether it will need to make any reasonable 
adjustments to its communication in order to assist Mr D.
Amend Mr Ds credit file to remove adverse credit file information it has recorded. My 
Finance Club should ensure that any new information recorded is an accurate 
reflection of how the account is repaid.
Pay Mr D directly £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decisions, Im upholding Mr Ds 
complaint in part.
My Finance Club Limited should put things right for Mr D as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman