DRN-4508743
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he acquired using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Ltd T/A Hyundai Finance (Hyundai Finance). Mr A brings the claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
When I refer to what Mr A has said and what Hyundai Finance have said, it should also be 
taken to include things said on their behalf.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Hyundai Finance to 
acquire a used car first registered in April 2021. At the time Mr A acquired the car it had 
travelled approximately 3,662 miles. The total cash price of the car was approximately 
£26,032. The total amount payable under the finance agreement was approximately 
£32,459. The agreement consisted of 48 consecutive monthly payments each of around 
£293 starting one month after the date of the agreement, followed by one payment of around 
£11,107 payable 49 months after the date of the agreement.
In November 2022, Mr A contacted the supplying dealership to let them know that the 
Gasoline Particulate Filter (GPF) light appeared on the cars dashboard. Mr A said that the 
supplying dealership couldnt look at the car for a couple of weeks, so they told him to take it 
to one of the other car manufacturers dealerships. There it was diagnosed as having an 
issue with the GPF, and the GPF regeneration was done at that time.   
Mr A said that this problem reoccurred in December 2022, so he took the car back to his 
local dealership and they carried out a second GPF regeneration on the car. At that time the 
car had travelled a total of around 8,033 miles. The invoice from this visit indicated that a 
software update was to follow. Mr A said that this second GPF regeneration didnt fix the 
fault as six weeks later, in January 2023, he again had to take the car to a local dealership. 
The invoice from that time states that there is a GPF fault as a light was still on the 
dashboard and that they were waiting on the manufacturer to release more information. Mr A 
was unhappy with this, so he contacted Hyundai Finance to raise a complaint. In this letter 
he explained he understood that this fault was a known issue with the car and that the 
manufacturer has acknowledged it as a software issue that cannot be fixed. So, Mr A asked 
to reject the car.
Hyundai Finance wrote to Mr A in March 2023. In this correspondence they said that, 
following the independent inspection they commissioned, they wouldnt uphold Mr As 
complaint. They said the reason for this is that the inspector stated they would not consider 
the reported fault to have been present or developing at the point of finance inception and 
the fault is not considered to be the selling agents responsibility.
Mr A was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service was of the opinion that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. The investigator thought Mr A should be able to reject the car and that 
Hyundai Finance should refund him 10% of the payments he made from November 2022 to 
the date of settlement to reflect the impaired use caused by the car not being of satisfactory 
quality. The investigator also though that it was fair that Hyundai Finance pay Mr A £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Hyundai Finance disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
Recently, Mr A wrote to our service to indicate that the car went back to one of the other car 
manufacturers dealerships on two more occasions. Mr A has told our service that since the 
last occasion the fault has not reoccurred. He has provided our service with a warranty 
invoice that indicates that they carried out a GPF wire rework and an upgrade. Mr A has also 
told us, that at times he is altering the way he drives so that the GPF regenerates itself as 
suggested by one of the service managers. And he told our service that the fault has not 
reoccurred for about six weeks, but that he is not holding his breath. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Mr A acquired the car using a fixed 
sum loan agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement. Our service can look 
at these sorts of agreements. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance 
provider, Hyundai Finance is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implied a term into the purchase contract with the 
supplier that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. As the finance provider, under 
the principles of S75, Hyundai Finance can be held jointly responsible for the quality of the 
car Mr A bought.
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid, and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case 
those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car 
and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mr As case the car was used, with a total cash price of the car being approximately 
£26,032. It had covered around 3,662 miles and was approximately 14 months old when he 
acquired it. So, its reasonable to expect presence of some wear to it as a result of its age, 
and Id have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. As with any car, 
theres an expectation that there will be ongoing maintenance and upkeep costs. There are 
parts that will naturally wear over time and its reasonable to expect that these may need to 
be replaced. And with second-hand cars, its more likely that parts will need to be replaced sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. So, the supplier (and here Hyundai 
Finance jointly) would not generally be held responsible for anything that was due to normal 
wear and tear whilst the car was in Mr As possession. But given the age, mileage and price 
paid, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person wouldnt expect anything significant to be 
wrong shortly after it was acquired.
While the complaint was at our service, Mr A has mentioned that on a couple of occasions 
he has noticed another fault with the car to do with the satnav, but this issue has not been 
raised previously by him to Hyundai Finance. Also, Ive not seen enough evidence to show 
that most likely there is a fault with the satnav. So, I will now go on and focus on the fault to 
do with the GPF light staying on.
From the work sheets and the invoices provided which were done between November 2022 
and January 2023, there seems to have been a problem with the GPF light staying on, even 
after the GPF regeneration was completed. Some of these also indicated that a software 
update was required. This fault is also supported by the independent report that was carried 
out in March 2023. In that report, the engineer reported that the GPF warning was 
illuminated on the dashboard and that the car will need further checks under workshop 
conditions to find the root cause of the fault. So, there seems to have been a fault with the 
car in question. 
Mr A thinks that he should be entitled to reject the car. The CRA sets out that Mr A has a 
short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days, if the car is of unsatisfactory quality. 
However, he would need to ask for the rejection within that time. Mr A would not be able to 
retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a later date.
Mr A acquired the car in June 2022. Shortly after, in November 2022, he started to 
experience problems with the car. But, even if I accept there were faults which made the car 
of unsatisfactory quality, Mr A only had a short term to reject the car within the first 30 days,
and only if he expressed his wish to do so. Ive not seen any evidence which shows that
he expressed his wish to reject the car within that time and later, he did exercise his right
to a repair.
The CRA says that if the car acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality or not as described,
then Mr A would be entitled to still return it after the first 30 days, but he wouldnt have the
right to reject the car until he has exercised his right to a repair  this is called his final right
to reject. So, Mr A doesnt have an automatic right to return the car if theres a fault. For
me to conclude that Mr A can now exercise his right to reject the car, I would need to see
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, and that an attempt at the repair has failed.
Hyundai Finance believes that the fault the car is experiencing was not developing at the 
point of sale or finance inception, as concluded by the independent report they 
commissioned. 
The independent report said that the car has been in service for approximately seven 
months and covered 6,000 miles and, as such, they wouldnt consider the reported fault to 
have been present or developing at the point of sale. So, Ive considered this, but Ive also 
taken into consideration that the first time Mr A raised this issued with the supplying 
dealership was in November 2022  approximately only five months after the car was 
supplied. And the second time the car went into one of the manufacturers dealerships for 
the same fault was in December 2022, when the car had travelled a total of around 8,033 
miles. 
It seems the fault on the car appeared after Mr A had the car for only about five months and 
had travelled less than about 4,500 miles. Ive also taken into consideration that the 
independent report, commissioned by Hyundai Finance, was inconclusive, as it indicated the fault would need further checks under workshop conditions to find the root cause of the 
warning light on the dashboard. Plus, the report stated that the car would need to go back to 
the manufacturer for further investigation and for their consideration of a warranty claim. 
And, at that time the fault first occurred in November 2022, the car had travelled less than 
about 8,033 miles in total and was approximately just over a year and a half old. So, I think 
its also reasonable to take into account the nature of the problem, and whether its fair to 
say the car was reasonably durable.  
Taking the above into consideration, combined with the price, age, and mileage of the car 
when it was supplied and when the fault first occurred, I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. I think that a reasonable person wouldnt expect for the 
car to have such problems so soon. Given the mileage of the car and the price paid, I dont 
think this is a fault a reasonable person would expect to arise when it did. So, I dont think 
the car, including its GPF, was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I dont think the car was 
of satisfactory quality.
But I can see from the latest warranty invoice that in October 2023 a GPF wire rework and 
upgrade has been carried out and Mr A has also told us that the fault has not reoccurred 
since the last fix. So, it seems that, most likely, the faults have now been fixed and Ive not 
seen enough to say that most likely the fault in question has reoccurred. Considering that the
repair appears to have been successful, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr A 
to be able to now exercise his right to reject the car. I have considered that Mr A thinks that 
the fault will reoccur but, based on what Ive been given, I cant say that most likely this fault 
is still present. Overall, I dont think Mr A has demonstrated that the repairs previously 
completed have now failed, therefore giving him the right to reject the car. So, while I 
sympathise with the situation Mr A finds herself in, I dont think he has a right to reject the 
car.
I understand that this matter caused Mr A distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve 
it, but I think that Hyundai Finance doesnt need to pay any compensation or take any further 
action as they have handled his S75 claim fairly.
While I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing, based on all the 
available evidence, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Hyundai Finance to do 
anything further regarding Mr As complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend not to uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 11 December 2023.
Hyundai Finance didnt respond.
Mr A responded and I will address his comments below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Mr A said that he has been driving with the fault for a long 
time until it was fixed and that he still has no faith that the issue has been resolved. He 
believes that the car issue has not been properly fixed. Instead, he believes that the fix maybe just temporary. He also told our service that he was hoping that he would at least get 
some sort of compensation or release from his finance agreement, as he still believes that 
the car is faulty, or at the very least he believes that he shouldve received a goodwill 
gesture from Hyundai Finance. 
Mr A also said that many of the cars had this fault from the start, so the car shouldve been 
recalled or fixed. And he said that recently he has received a letter about the dealership, 
from which he bought the car, saying that the dealership are going to close. As such, he said 
this is ironic and he questioned how many more cars from them were faulty.
Mr A has told us that the fault has not reoccurred since the last fix. And Ive not been given 
anything to suggest that this was just a temporary fix. So, it seems that, most likely, the 
faults have now been fixed and Ive not seen enough to say that most likely the fault in 
question has reoccurred. As the repair, most likely, was successful I dont think it would be 
fair and reasonable for Mr A to be able to return the goods for a full refund. 
While I sympathise with Mr A for the difficulties that he is experiencing, I dont think its 
reasonable for me to ask Hyundai Finance to pay any compensation to Mr A or take any 
further action as they have handled his S75 claim fairly. And I need to think about what a 
court would award in thinking about Hyundai Finances liability under S75, and courts dont 
make awards for distress and inconvenience. I know that Mr A thinks that Hyundai Finance 
should consider giving him compensation on a goodwill basis. This option is of course 
always open to Hyundai Finance. But thats a decision for Hyundai Finance and not our 
service. Theres no law, rules, or guidance requiring Hyundai Finance to do this.
In addition, in this decision I cant consider whether the manufacturer should or shouldnt 
have recalled the car and I cant comment on why or why not the dealership that sold the car 
is closing or whether more cars from them were faulty. All complaints, at our service, are 
considered on their individual facts and merits. Here, I make my decision based on what I 
think is fair and reasonable considering all the circumstances of this complaint and, more 
specifically, by looking at things that Hyundai Finance is responsible for.
Considered everything again, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I 
reached in my provisional decision copied above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman