DRN-2081675
The complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1987 Mr J took out a mortgage with Halifax and PPI was added to his account at the same 
time. Mr J cant remember how he was sold the PPI; Halifax says its treated the sale as 
having taken place in a branch.
The policy, for which Mr J paid a monthly premium, wouldve given him a monthly benefit of 
£200 for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim he 
made
Mr J says he knew nothing about the PPI sale  he says the policy was added without his 
agreement or consent. And he says he was in stable employment at the time, so didnt need 
it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Js complaint didnt uphold it. Mr J disagrees and so his 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr J he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. Mr J is emphatic he didnt agree to the PPI  he says he didnt know he had it until 
recently. But, understandably after so long, Mr J hasnt given us any other evidence to back-
up what he says. 
Halifax also hasnt been able to give us any evidence from the time to show how it presented 
the PPI to Mr J to get his consent  which it says it wouldve done. But, again, I think thats 
understandable: Mr J was sold the PPI more than 30 years ago and his account has been 
closed for nearly 20 years.
This means I have very limited information on which to decide this aspect of Mr Js 
complaint. And Mr Js statement that he knew nothing about the PPI isnt strong enough, on 
its own and without anything else to back it up, for me to think its a fair and reasonable basis 
on which to uphold his complaint on this point. Also, as a service, we havent seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales process for this type of policy around the time of this sale. 
On balance, therefore, I dont have enough information to say its likely Halifax added the 
PPI to Mr Js account without his knowledge or consent. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Js 
complaint on this point.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Js complaint but I 
dont think there are. Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr J, so it needed to make 
sure it was right for him. On the limited information I have, I dont know what steps Halifax 
took to do this. And Halifax doesnt have a policy booklet for the actual PPI policy Mr J had, 
so Ive had to look at a policy booklet from a few years later. But having done this and also 
looked at what Mr J has said about his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI probably 
was right for him because:
I think its likely he was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been caught by any 
of the main things it wouldnt have covered (like known medical conditions). 
So I dont think its likely there was anything to stop Mr J making a successful claim if 
hed needed to. I do appreciate Mr J says he couldnt have claimed if he didnt know 
he had a policy. But, as Ive said, I dont have enough information to say its likely the 
PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
I think the PPI couldve been of some use to Mr J if things got difficult. He says he 
thinks hed been in his job for around 5 years and it was stable. But insurance is 
designed to protect against the unexpected. And Mr J also says hed have got less 
than three months sick pay if hed needed time off work. The PPI policy wouldve 
given a monthly benefit of up to 12 months for a successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim. And Mr Js mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment, secured on his home, which was at risk if he fell behind with his 
mortgage repayments.
I havent seen anything to make me think he couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr J, Halifax also had to give him enough clear 
information about the policy for him to be able to make an informed decision about whether 
he wanted it. Again, with the limited information I have, I dont know what steps Halifax took 
here. And its possible it didnt make some things as clear as it shouldve. But, as I said, I 
think its unlikely the PPI was added to Mr Js account without his knowledge or consent. 
And it looks to me as if he had a need for cover. So I think clearer information about the PPI, 
if this had been needed, would only have confirmed this to Mr J and wouldnt have stopped 
him going ahead with it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman