DRN-2834940
The complaint
Mr R complains Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) settled a third-party claim against his car 
insurance policy unfairly. 
Reference to Zenith also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. But Id like to reassure Mr R 
and Zenith that Ive considered everything Ive been provided in its entirety.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt my role to determine liability for the incident at the heart of this dispute; that 
would be a matter for a court of law. What I need to decide is whether Zenith acted 
fairly and reasonably in its decision to settle the third-party claim. 
I know Mr R feels strongly about the matter  he says he didnt hit the third partys 
car and feels Zenith made its decision without carrying out an adequate investigation. 
So, Ive thought carefully about whether Zenith reasonably investigated the third-
party claim and considered the available evidence before making its decision.
The starting point is the agreement between Mr R and Zenith  the policy terms and 
conditions. These include a provision which entitles Zenith to take over and deal with 
a claim, including agreeing settlement of it. This provision is common in motor 
policies and I dont find it unusual or surprising. Insurers are entitled to consider 
whether its reasonable to challenge a claim and the likely chances of pursuing or 
defending it in court. I dont consider this unfair because insurers have greater 
experience of how the courts are likely to determine liability for accidents. 
Under the terms of the policy, Zenith can decide whether to defend a claim or settle 
it. That means it might make a decision the policyholder disagrees with, as has 
happened here. But the terms and conditions of the policy allow Zenith to make such 
a decision. It doesnt need the policyholders consent in order to do so. Any such 
decision must still be reasonable in the circumstances of the claim.
I can see Zenith contacted Mr R as soon as it was notified of the claim. It asked him 
for his version of events and also shared the third-party witness statement for his 
comments. When Mr R challenged the information supplied by the third party, Zenith 
arranged an in-house damage consistency report. The findings highlighted concerns 
and, as Id expect it to, Zenith flagged these with the third party and disputed liability. 
Following a response, Zenith sought legal opinion on the prospects of success if the 
matter went to court. The solicitors counsel was to settle on a without prejudice 
basis. But when Mr R expressed his concerns, in my judgement, it was prudent of 
Zenith to arrange an independent inspection of his car from a qualified engineer. The 
engineer couldnt confirm whether Mr Rs car was involved in causing damage to the 
third partys car. As I would expect from an insurer, I can see Zenith went back to the 
third party and continued challenging liability. 
The dispute remained unresolved and when the third party notified its intention to 
litigate, ultimately Zenith made a commercial decision to settle on a without prejudice 
basis. It arranged a further inspection after Mr R expressed dissatisfaction, but the 
decision to settle remained unchanged.
Mr R has said the legal opinion Zenith relied on was based on insufficient evidence 
as investigations continued afterwards. It is true Zenith asked for an independent 
experts opinion after seeking legal advice. But I dont think this means the advice it 
received was wrong. I say this because even though the initial engineers opinion 
was inconclusive, the subsequent engineer thought Zenith might wish to consider 
accepting liability. He concluded it was likely the two cars were involved in the same 
collision and there appeared to be consistency in the noted damage on both cars. 
This conclusion only reinforced the legal advice that there were no real prospects of 
success if the matter was litigated. 
Having considered the available information, Im not persuaded Zenith overlooked 
key information or simply went through the motions as Mr R suggests. Rather, its my 
judgement Zenith reasonably investigated the available evidence and continued 
defending the claim until it concluded litigation would likely prove unsuccessful. 
I accept Mr R is unhappy the second engineers conclusions are based on likelihood. 
But this isnt the only piece of evidence Zenith relied on in making its decision. It also 
referred to a solicitor for counsel. And theres no compelling reason for me to doubt 
the credibility of this advice. 
Ive also considered Mr Rs concerns about Zenith suggesting his wife  who was a 
passenger in his car at the time  wasnt considered a credible witness. Although this 
would be a matter for the courts to decide, a court would still apply more or less 
weight to certain witnesses. Given the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zenith to think the courts would likely place less weight on Mr Rs 
wifes account of what happened. In any event, Im satisfied Zenith settled the third-
party claim in a way that leaves it open for Mr R to still challenge liability.
In summary, I acknowledge Mr Rs frustrations and recognise its likely hell disagree with my 
findings. But considering all the evidence  and given Zeniths contractual discretion to settle 
a claim; and its legal obligation to meet a potential court judgement in respect of damages 
sought by the third party if liability is covered by the policy  I dont consider Zeniths 
decision was inherently unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman