DRN-4081300
The complaint
Miss Bs complains that TenetLime Ltd failed to record her answers to a health and lifestyle 
questionnaire accurately, resulting in her insurer cancelling her life and critical illness  policy 
on the basis of misrepresentation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will simply summarise them 
here. In autumn 2019, Miss B consulted company O - an appointed representative of 
TenetLime - about mortgage and family protection. She subsequently took out three policies. 
A life and critical illness policy to protect her mortgage. A separate life policy that would 
benefit her sons in the event of her death. And an income protection policy, should she be 
unable to work through illness or injury.
In early 2022, Miss B sought advice from another broker about remortgaging. It came to light 
that a heart condition hadnt been disclosed to her insurer when applying for her policies in 
December 2019. She contacted the insurer to see what could be done, which resulted in her 
life and critical illness policy being cancelled and premiums refunded, as the insurer would 
not have offered cover at all, had all Miss Bs health circumstances been disclosed. The 
insurer said it wouldve still offered cover in respect of her other policies, but at a higher 
premium. So the insurer applied a proportionate reduction in the benefit on both those 
policies 
Miss B complained to TenetLime that it had misrepresented on her behalf. She said she told 
O about her heart condition, but at the time, couldnt remember the name of it. She said that 
had she known she could not get critical illness cover at the time, she wouldve used her 
budget to obtain more cover with her other policies.
TenetLime said its representative recalled disclosure of a recent heart condition, but 
otherwise could not remember exactly what was disclosed, aside from the notes recorded on 
the application. It said Miss B had the opportunity to identify any errors, when sent full policy 
details by the insurer. It did not uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator upheld 
her complaint. He was satisfied that TenetLime had misrepresented Miss Bs answers to her 
insurer. He considered what Miss B mightve done, had her full circumstances been 
disclosed at the time. He took into account Miss Bs present health circumstances - which 
have severely affected her ability to obtain insurance  and her oversight in not identifying 
the disclosure omission when she received her policy documents. He initially concluded that 
TenetLime should pay Miss B £300 compensation, which TenetLime accepted. But after 
further consideration, he thought £500 more fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Neither party accepted his opinion so the complaints now been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint.  But Im not requiring TenetLime to pay 
Miss B more than the £500 proposed by our investigator. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on 
the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a particular 
point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider 
it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
I was sorry to hear about Miss Bs current health difficulties and I appreciate this has been a 
difficult and stressful time for her. I can understand why she feels let down by TenetLime and 
thinks it should put things right. 
Where theres a dispute between the parties, I have to decide what I think most likely 
happened. The sale was conducted over the phone by a trainee advisor, under the 
supervision of a senior colleague. Unfortunately, theres no call recording available to 
provide certainty about what was said. TenetLimes representatives, understandably, have a 
limited recall of the details and have relied on the application form completed at the time. 
Miss B has provided testimony that she disclosed both her historic and more recent heart 
issues to TenetLime, although she says she couldnt remember the name of her historic 
condition. She was clear that the historic issue happened when she was pregnant and that 
she had a small procedure to correct things. Her GP has since confirmed she was 
diagnosed with paroxysmal atrial tachycardia. Miss B said she experienced some concerns 
about her heartrate a few months prior to taking out the 2019 policies and had investigations, 
including an ECG, all of which were normal. She recalls the advisor asking specific 
questions about heart issues and is adamant she disclosed both historic and recent events. 
Unfortunately, only the recent matter was recorded on her application and passed to her 
insurer. 
On balance, Im persuaded Miss B did disclose her historic heart issue to TenetLime and this 
information wasnt accurately recorded and provided to the insurer. She disclosed her more 
recent ECG and Ive seen no evidence to suggest she wouldnt also have disclosed her 
historic issues. Once the problem was flagged to her, she proactively contacted her insurer 
to alert them to the issue. And, having listened to the call between her and her advisors from 
O when she first raised the matter with them, I find that she was open about receiving her 
policy documents from the insurer, but not picking up on the missing information. I think on 
balance that straightforwardness would have led her to disclose the full extent of her heart 
history. 
So I think TenetLime needs to do something to redress its error. But I have to think about 
whats fair in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
The impact for Miss B is that she does not have the cover in place she thought she had. Had 
all gone right, Miss B wouldve known straightaway that critical illness cover wasnt available 
to her. And I acknowledge that she wouldve been able to use her available budget to obtain 
the best cover she could under her other policies. Unfortunately, her options for cover are 
now very limited, due to an intervening health event. Im also mindful that Miss B had the opportunity to identify any issues with her cover shortly 
after the policies commenced. The insurer sent Miss B her policy documents, including her 
personal details confirmation which she was required to check to ensure all was accurate. 
Very candidly, Miss B acknowledged she received and looked at the documents, but failed to 
spot the issue about her more historic heart condition. She thinks she mayve missed this 
information as the documents were double-sided. Shes also said she noted the inclusion of 
her more recent investigations and, trusting her advisor, assumed all was well. 
I acknowledge some responsibility on Miss Bs part. But I dont think that absolves 
TenetLime  a professional firm - of all responsibility. But for its error, Miss Bs mistake 
wouldnt have mattered. I accept that the impact of finding out that she wasnt covered has 
caused Miss B distress and worry. And I think TenetLime needs to do something to 
acknowledge its error and the impact on Miss B. Taking everything into account, I think £500 
compensation for loss of expectation and distress and inconvenience is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint and directing TenetLime 
Ltd to pay her £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman