DRN-3888852
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide him with adequate information about 
charges when he enquired about making international transfers.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points of the complaint.
In July 2021 Mr H contacted Barclays about making an international payment. Mr H had 
experienced issues carrying out this payment online and the Barclays representative set up 
the relevant payee and carried out a test payment. 
Mr H made a number of payments online to this payee and in early September 2021 he 
contacted Barclays to raise a complaint. Mr H said the amounts received by the payee 
differed to the amounts Mr H had sent. After a number of phone calls with Barclays it 
became clear charges were being applied by an intermediary bank. Mr H says the charges 
by the intermediary bank werent made clear by Barclays and the debit advices didnt specify 
the intermediary charges. In order to resolve his complaint Mr H asked for the charges to be 
refunded and compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had experienced. Mr H 
also wanted details of the exact cost for making international transfers, and the lowest cost 
option available to him.
Barclays reviewed Mr Hs complaint and explained that it had given him accurate information 
 it didnt apply charges, but Mr H had selected shared charges which meant any charges 
applied by the intermediary bank would be taken off the amount sent, which explains why 
the final amount received by the payee was less than Mr H had anticipated.
Mr H remained unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator reviewed the complaint and found that Barclays Bank had acted fairly when 
dealing with Mr Hs international transfer requests. 
Dissatisfied with the Investigators review, Mr H asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and Mr H has provided details in 
relation to other banks involved in the international transfer. I will focus on issues which are - 
in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to this complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to Mr H. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr H says the information provided about international transfers and the applicable charges 
in the initial call he had with Barclays Bank wasnt clear. Having listened to this call, I dont 
think Barclays provided unclear information. During the call Mr H was informed that Barclays 
does not charge for international transfers made online. A test transfer was made, and Mr H 
was provided with details on how to make future payments using his app and online account. 
Mr H didnt raise specific queries during this call about charges and how the international 
payment system worked. Rather the focus of the call appears to be setting up the relevant 
payee correctly. 
Following this phone call Mr H made over 300 international transfers using his Barclays 
account. For each of these transfers Mr H selected the shared charges option for the 
transfers. The Barclays website has a section which provides details of how it handles 
international payments, for shared charges the website explains: Share the charges  this is 
known as a 'SHA payment'. You only pay our international payment fees (if applicable), and 
the person youre paying pays the other charges. Their charges will probably be deducted 
from the payment amount, so they could get less than the amount you sent. This page also 
states: A payment to the USA may be processed by several banks before reaching the 
account of the person or company you're paying. Any of these banks could charge for 
processing the payment, and this could affect the final amount received. I think Barclays 
therefore made the necessary information available to Mr H so he could make an informed 
decision about how to proceed with the transfers. 
Barclays has also explained the online transfer process and provided some screen shots of 
the online steps Mr H wouldve had to go through. I can see this wouldve involved Mr H 
being presented with a screen which advised the exchange rate, and what the amount being 
sent would convert to. Mr H wouldve also had to tick a box confirming he was happy with 
the amount he would be sending. Mr H was sent debit advice letters after each transfer 
which provided details of the international transfer, including any charges from Barclays, the 
exchange rate and the amount sent to the receiving bank. Looking at all these details 
together Im satisfied Mr H was given a reasonable amount information about the transfers 
he was making. 
Mr H says Barclays shouldve informed him of the charges before he proceeded with each 
transfer. Barclays was unable to state how much other banks might charge because in most 
cases it would not know this in advance  the intermediary bank decides the charges, and 
these may vary. Because of this uncertainty Barclays provides a notification to its customers 
that other charges may apply for international transfers. While I can see that Mr H says 
having a clear breakdown of any charges applied to international transfers is important to 
him, it wouldnt be fair to expect Barclays to provide this, as the charges are applied 
independently of its involvement. It is also important to note that the charges were applied 
after the funds left Mr Hs account. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
compensate Mr H or take any further action, as it has acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
I know this will not be the outcome Mr H was hoping for and he will be disappointed with the 
decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont be 
asking Barclays to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Chandni GreenOmbudsman