DRN-3253326
The complaint and what happened
Mr G complains Lloyds Bank PLC wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In May 2019, Mr G was cold called with an investment opportunity. Mr G decided to 
invest, initially 250 Euros with further payments made later. The payments were 
made over the phone by Mr G providing his card details to what later turned out to be 
a scammer. The payments, shown in GBP, were as follows:
Date Transaction Amount
23/05/2019 Debit card payment to CryptoGrizzly £218.91
24/05/2019 Debit card payment to CryptoGrizzly £4,420.32
28/05/2019 Debit card payment to XchangePro £8,244.82
29/05/2019 Debit card payment to CryptoGrizzly £4,421.26
29/05/2019 Credit from CryptoGrizzly - £218.91
total £17,086.40
Mr G was provided with several account managers over the course of his 
investment. He made withdrawal requests which were either avoided by offering 
further investment opportunities or declined entirely. All of Mr Gs investment was 
depleted over time. 
Mr G raised a chargeback claim via Lloyds. However, as the payments were made to 
genuine cryptocurrency exchanges, rather than to the scammer, which provided the 
service of converting money into cryptocurrency, Lloyds explained there were no 
chargeback rights. 
Our investigator agreed that as the service was provided by the parties who were 
paid, chargeback rights didnt exist. And he didnt find the payments were unusual 
such that he felt Lloyds ought to have intervened. 
Mr G disagrees and has referred to BSI PAS: 2017 17271 and other good industry 
practices in support of his complaint. He has also copied numerous extracts of other 
complaints, presumably from our published decisions, in support of his belief that his 
complaint should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out above the key points of 
this complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so  agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, 
VISA. It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they 
havent been able to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject 
to the rules of the scheme  which are set by VISA  and there are only limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these 
grounds are deemed invalid. 
I accept Mr G believes he paid the scammers directly. But the information he has 
provided in support of this seems to be a screen shot of the scammers system. Given 
Mr Gs allegation the scammer provided false data in relation to his investment, I 
dont find the screen shot credible evidence, particularly as one of the payment 
methods differs from what Lloyds records show. I find Lloyds records about the 
payments, how they were made and who too, far more persuasive.  I therefore place 
more weight on these. Im also mindful that Mr G has submitted he never actually 
made the payments himself, rather he gave his card details to the scammer over the 
phone. 
Lloyds records show the payments went to genuine cryptocurrency exchanges. So it 
would seem the scammer used Mr Gs card details to obtain cryptocurrency, albeit I 
accept he may not have realised that. Im afraid the service provided by the 
exchanges would be to convert the money into cryptocurrency. Therefore there are 
no chargeback rights under the scheme  the merchants Mr G paid provided the 
service asked for. That the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere doesnt 
give rise to a valid chargeback claim. I therefore dont find Lloyds was acting unfairly 
or unreasonably when not pursuing a chargeback claim that didnt have any 
reasonable prospect of success.  
Mr G has argued Lloyds should have done more to intervene in these payments and 
has referred to industry guidance in support of his belief. I am, of course, aware of 
this guidance and have taken it into account. But having considered the matter 
carefully, Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have intervened in these payments. 
Banks and other payment services providers are obliged to carry out their customers 
payment instructions. There is no dispute here that Mr G authorised the transactions, 
even if he wasnt intending to be scammed, and so he is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance.  
Whilst Lloyds, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring 
accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud, I 
dont think there was anything so unusual or so uncharacteristic about these 
payments that ought to have alerted Lloyds that Mr G might have been at risk of 
financial harm. I accept he might not have bought cryptocurrency before. But the 
account had previously been used to pay out similar, if not much higher amounts, in 
the months leading up to the transactions in dispute. So even though these were 
payments to cryptocurrency exchanges, Im not persuaded that of itself ought to have 
triggered Lloyds fraud prevention systems. And I dont find anything else about the 
payments ought to have done either. 
I accept banks and other payment services providers have more knowledge of these 
types of scam than the layperson. But the merchants Mr G paid were/are legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchanges and buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity. These 
payments were all made online; this meant there was no interaction with staff that 
might have provided an opportunity for the scam to be identified. 
Its unfortunate Mr G has fallen victim to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which he finds himself, Im not persuaded Lloyds has done anything wrong, so I 
wont be asking it to reimburse the lost money nor do I make any other award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman