DRN-2690956
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) increased the 
compulsory excess on his motor insurance policy without making him aware of the change.
What happened
Mr O says that just before his motor insurance policy with LV was due to renew he was sent
renewal documents. He says he didnt fully read these documents at that time. But later, he 
noticed that the excess on his policy had increased from the previous year. So he contacted 
LV to ask them why he wasnt clearly told about the increase to the excess. 
Mr O says that the increase to the excess shouldve been highlighted in the renewal pack, in 
the same way that the previous years premium was highlighted. Mr O feels that if hed 
known about the total excess of £900, he couldve got cheaper insurance with another 
provider. 
Mr O complained to LV. He asked them to reduce his total excess to its previous level of 
£600. 
LV didnt uphold his complaint. They explained why the compulsory excess had increased 
from £300 to £600, making the total policy excess £900 given the £300 voluntary excess. Mr 
O didnt agree. As an alternative, Mr O said he would accept the voluntary excess being 
reduced by £150 with no corresponding premium increase. LV couldnt agree to this request. 
So Mr O brought his complaint to this service. At this point, LV offered to waive the 
cancellation fees on the policy if Mr O wanted to cancel his motor policy and get cover with a 
different provider. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the renewal documents did clearly state 
what the excess on the policy would be. So he didnt think LV had done anything wrong. Mr 
O didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2021. I said:
Mr O is unhappy that LV didnt clearly point out that his excess would increase if he 
accepted their renewal offer. 
Theres no general rule as to how policy terms need to be set out  thats up to each 
business to decide. But what we do expect is that sellers need to highlight any onerous, 
unusual or significant terms. At renewal we would expect a seller to explain changes to the 
policy. This is all so the buyer can make an informed choice about the policy theyre thinking 
of buying. The excess is part of the policy terms. 
Ive looked at the renewal information LV sent dated 12 April 2020. They stated on the first 
page: Please check the renewal quote details carefully and ensure that your needs continue 
to be met. But Mr O confirmed to this service that he didnt read it properly. 
Ive also looked at a number of other related documents from LV. Page 4 of the renewal 
information contained clear information about the excess. But the change to the excess 
wasnt highlighted earlier on in the letter. And this is why Mr O has complained that the 
change LV made wasnt transparent. 
So I need to look at what LV shouldve done in order to work out whether they did anything 
wrong. 
Its possible that LV shouldve done more to explain the change to the excess. The total 
excess has changed from £600 to £900. And thats a large increase. The renewal 
documents didnt clearly state that thered been a change to the policy terms in relation to 
the excess. They just showed what the excess would be without highlighting that it had 
changed. 
I can only ask LV to put things right if I consider that Mr O has lost out due to the lack of 
transparency about the increase to the excess. 
So I need to look at what wouldve happened if the change to the excess had been clearly 
highlighted in the renewal documents. Its possible that Mr O still wouldnt have realised, 
given he said he didnt read the documents properly. But if he had read them at the time, I 
need to decide whether he wouldve acted differently. Mr O said he couldve found cheaper 
cover elsewhere if hed been willing to accept the increased excess. This may have been 
possible. But I havent seen any evidence that such cover was available. Or that Mr O 
wouldve have looked for it. 
I can see that LV have tried to be helpful since the complaint was raised with them. Although 
they couldnt agree to Mr Os request to only increase his excess by £150, not £300, they did 
offer him a £50 reduction to the increased premium if he wanted to reduce his voluntary 
excess to £0. And theyve offered to waive the £40 cancellation fee if Mr O wants to cancel 
the policy. 
Mr O said that had he known about the increase to the excess, he wouldnt have insured his 
car with LV. But LV have offered to waive the cancellation fee of £40 on the policy if Mr O 
decides to move to a different insurer. I understand that Mr O hasnt made a claim on his 
policy, and therefore hasnt been charged the disputed excess. So I consider that he has the 
opportunity to be in the same position he wouldve been in had he rejected the renewal 
quote if he chooses to take LVs offer. 
Given LV has offered Mr O the chance to cancel his policy with no charge, I cant say that Mr 
O has lost out due to the lack of transparency. So on balance I dont intend to ask LV to do 
any more.
Response to my provisional decision
LV had nothing to add. 
Mr O asked me to explain that he always looks at his excesses but as this was a renewal he 
automatically assumed that the only thing changing was the premium, not the excess. He 
went on to say that hed never had a change or increase of excess on any of his insurance 
policies when renewing. My findings
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman