DRN-1874396
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R have complained about the decision by Aston Lark Limited, their broker, 
not to compensate them for premiums they paid for their property insurance policy even 
though Mr D and Miss R believe the policy would not have provided them with any cover if 
they had needed to make a claim. 
What happened
In 2012, Mr D and Miss R bought a property which they intended to renovate while 
remaining in their current home. They took out insurance for the new property through Aston 
Lark to provide cover while the renovation took place.
In January 2014, the property was discovered to be suffering water ingress emanating from 
an adjoining property. Mr D and Miss R stopped the renovation work until a remedy could be 
found. They eventually pursued legal action against the owners of the adjoining property. 
Meanwhile, the policy continued to renew each year.
In 2019, Mr D and Miss R didnt receive their renewal quote from Aston Lark at the usual 
time. They therefore contacted Aston Lark to ask about this. In the course of the discussions, 
Mr D and Miss R confirmed to Aston Lark that the legal action was ongoing and the 
renovation work had remained suspended since 2014.
Aston Lark told Mr D and Miss R that it was a condition of the policy that there must not be 
more than 30 days without any work being carried out at the property. If this condition wasnt 
met, the cover under the policy was restricted to Fire, Lightning, Earthquake, Explosion and 
Aircraft (FLEEA) only. In light of the information which Mr D and Miss R had provided, it 
said the policy was no longer suitable for them. It said the insurer had nonetheless agreed to 
provide a six-month extension of the cover on a FLEEA basis if they wished. 
Mr D and Miss R complained to Aston Lark. They said they had made it aware that the 
renovation work had stopped. They were unhappy that they had been paying for an 
unsuitable policy since 2014. They also complained that, since informing them that the 
insurer wouldnt renew the policy, Aston Lark hadnt provided them with quotes for 
alternative cover.
Aston Lark didnt uphold the complaint. It maintained that it had been unaware that 
renovation work had stopped. It noted it had now provided a quote for a new twelve-month 
policy from another insurer albeit the cover under this was limited due to the property being 
unoccupied.
Mr D and Miss R were unhappy with Aston Larks response. They referred their complaint to 
us. They said that in the course of making a legal expenses claim they had made Aston Lark 
aware in 2014 that the renovation work had stopped. They considered that the policy had 
been of no use since that time and that they should therefore be entitled to a full refund of 
the premiums they had paid.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She accepted that 
Mr D and Miss R made Aston Lark aware in 2014 that the renovations were on hold. 
However, she considered there was insufficient evidence to support that they made Aston 
Lark aware at the next renewal, or any subsequent renewal, that the renovations continued 
to be on hold. In view of this, she considered that Aston Lark hadnt done anything wrong by 
inviting renewal of the policy each year. She therefore considered it didnt need to 
compensate Mr D and Miss R for the premiums they had paid.
Mr D and Miss R didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that each year, following 
receipt of the renewal invitation, they would liaise with Aston Lark, primarily over the 
telephone, and discuss among other things the progress of the renovations. They said that  
Aston Lark was therefore aware that the renovations had been on hold since 2014 but it was 
only in 2019 that it had raised this as an issue in terms of the policys suitability. They 
considered that Aston Larks record keeping was demonstrably poor and therefore the fact 
that it had no record of the relevant telephone conversations was not reliable evidence that 
the conversations didnt take place. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy which Aston Lark recommended to Mr D and Miss R in 2012, and every year 
thereafter until 2019, was specially designed to provide cover during a renovation project. 
However, the policy carried a Works in Progress Warranty which stated:
It is a condition precedent to liability that if the works in progress cease and there is a break 
or delay in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days, including Bank Holidays and weekends we 
will not pay for loss or damage caused by the perils specified under Section 1 Buildings (and 
Section 2 Contents, if applicable) other than Fire Lightning Explosion Earthquake or Aircraft 
and other flying objects or anything dropped from them unless agreed by us. In addition, you 
must comply with the Unoccupied Premises Condition.
This warranty does not apply if works are complete and the property is awaiting sale.
Aston Lark has provided copies of the renewal invitations sent to Mr D and Miss R each 
year. The invitations clearly explain that the policy is designed to cover the property while 
renovation work is taking place. Aston Lark has explained that because some projects are 
undertaken by the client themselves in their own time, it is not unusual for renovations to 
take a few years to complete. I consider that, unless it was informed otherwise, it was 
reasonable for Aston Lark to assume that renovation was continuing and that the policy 
therefore remained suitable for Mr D and Miss R.
In January 2014, Mr D and Miss R stopped renovation work because of the issue with the 
neighbouring property. They say they made Aston Lark aware of this at the time.
There are various notes in Aston Larks file of conversations which took place between it and 
Mr D around the time of the policys renewal in February 2014. In one conversation, Mr D 
said the project hadnt yet completed because the contractor had fallen ill and he therefore 
wanted the policy to continue for another year. There is no mention in the notes at this time 
that the renovation work had stopped.Mr D and Miss R subsequently tried to make a claim to their legal expenses insurer in 
respect of the dispute with the owner of the adjoining property. Aston Lark became involved 
in assisting with this claim. There is no record in Aston Larks file to show it was informed by 
Mr D and Miss R that work had stopped because of this dispute. However, Mr D and Miss R 
have been able to provide correspondence they sent to Aston Lark in June 2014 concerning 
the legal expenses claim in which they mention that the problem with the water ingress was 
preventing them from completing the work.
The investigator accepted that this showed Aston Lark had been informed that the 
renovation work was on hold. I consider that saying that a project cannot be completed until 
a certain obstacle is overcome is not quite the same as confirming that all work on that 
project has been suspended. But in any case, the insurer declined the legal expense claim 
and Aston Lark would have been unaware of what happened in respect of the proposed 
legal action thereafter. And when the policy renewed in 2015, and in subsequent years until 
2019, there is no evidence to indicate that Mr D and Miss R advised Aston Lark that no 
renovation work was taking place.  
Mr D and Miss R say that in the discussions with Aston Lark at the time of the 2014 renewal  
they made clear that the renovations had stopped and that they had further conversations 
with Aston Lark at each renewal thereafter in which they discussed developments in respect 
of the renovations. They say that it is due to Aston Larks poor record keeping that there is 
no evidence of this.
I consider the fact that Mr D and Miss R were able to provide correspondence from the time 
of their legal expense claim in June 2014 which Aston Lark wasnt able to provide suggests 
that Aston Larks record keeping is not as good as it should be. And I cant rule out the 
possibility that Mr D and Miss R made it aware that the renovation work had stopped in 2014 
and never restarted again. However, there is a lack of evidence to show this and I consider it 
more likely that Aston Lark was not properly informed that work was no longer taking place. 
I say this not only because I think that if Mr D and Miss R had made Aston Lark aware of this 
at each renewal as they say, it is likely there would be some record of this over the years but 
also because I think it unlikely that Aston Lark would have continued to offer renewal of the 
policy in these circumstances.
In view of the above, I consider that Aston Lark did not do anything wrong by recommending 
renewal of the policy each year from 2014 until 2019.
I should point out to Mr D and Miss R that even if I found that Aston Lark had been aware 
since 2014 that the renovation work had been stopped, it doesnt necessarily mean that I 
would award them compensation equivalent to all the premiums they had paid since then. 
This is because I would have to ask myself what Mr D and Miss R otherwise would have 
done. It seems clear that they would still have wanted to insure the property. The policy they 
had through Aston Lark still provided some protection, albeit on a FLEEA basis only. They 
didnt need to make a claim under any other peril during the period in question so havent 
suffered any loss in that respect. Therefore, the most they could likely claim in compensation 
would be the difference between the premiums they paid and the amount they would have 
paid for another policy offering at least as much cover, assuming that a cheaper policy could 
be found. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. David Poley
Ombudsman