DRN-3258030
The complaint
Mr M complains Unum Ltd unfairly turned down his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr M is a member of his employers group income protection policy, provided by Unum. The 
policy is designed to pay a benefit in the event of incapacity due to illness or injury, after a 
deferred period of 26 weeks. 
Mr M works as an analyst, and in March 2020, he became absent from work for around three 
weeks. He returned to work, but became absent again in early April 2020, and remained off 
work. 
Mr Ms policy defines incapacity as follows. 
the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied that the member is:
(a) unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of
the insured occupation, and is
(b) not performing any occupation
And the following medical evidence was provided in support of Mr Ms claim. 
Occupational health reports 
In April 2020 the report referenced Mr M having feelings of anxiety, low mood, insomnia, and 
low energy, concentration and focus. And it said hed reported work-related issues as the 
cause of the symptoms preventing him from working. He is reporting symptoms of low mood 
and anxiety which he specifically attributes to his work volume and recent relationship 
difficulty with his line manager.. 
It was also noted Mr M said his workload increased after he went part-time in 2018. And hed 
said his line manager had been critical of him, had become impatient and had humiliated 
him. The report also reflected Mr M felt his manager and senior manager were unhappy with 
him working part-time. 
In terms of a return to work, the report stated I would anticipate that once [Mr Ms] work 
related issues have been addressed to his satisfaction he will return to work. 
The report from May 2020 said Mr M remained unfit for work. It referenced the workplace 
issues and said Mr M had agreed to discuss this with his employers HR. And it stated that 
without the employers intervention, the absence may continue in the long term. It also said 
GP support, talking treatments and self-care methods may help alleviate symptoms but they 
are unlikely to be a solution in themselves. 
In June 2020, the report reflected a slight improvement in Mr Ms symptoms, and occasional 
days of feeling good but also intermittent symptoms of anxiety when contemplating work 
issues. And it noted Mr M had been in discussion with his employer and this included the 
options of transfer to another department and a reduction in hours. The report concluded Mr 
M was still unfit for work, but fit to engage with his employer about his ongoing work 
concerns. 
GP records 
In March 2020, the GP noted work related stress and that Mr M had reported his job 
becoming increasingly stressful and that he was anxious and not sleeping well. The GP 
recorded that Mr M intended to approach his line manager about his working conditions and 
may reduce his hours. And he certified Mr M as unfit for work.
Following a brief return to work, Mr M contacted his GP in April 2020, to request a further 
four weeks away from work. And in early May, he requested the same, stating that his 
previously explained symptoms remained. The GP noted Mr M had no high risk symptoms.
In June 2020 Mr M requested to be signed off work for another six weeks and to be 
prescribed a mild sleeping tablet. The GP noted Mr M had reported some dizziness, 
headaches, difficulty sleeping and wrote mood ok. And agreed to prescribe a sleeping 
tablet on a short-term basis.
The GP noted mood a bit flat in July 2020, and that Mr M was keen to consider taking anti-
depressants. He was certified unfit for work for another four weeks and prescribed an anti-
depressant. 
Therapist reports 
Mr M had been attending Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) sessions since May 2020. A 
report from the therapist in September 2020 said The background of this case is work 
related stress which has developed into a depressive illness. And it went on to list Mr Ms 
symptoms and said issues at his workplace had caused a depressive illness. Also, that 
actions expected to aid the situation at work had not taken place. And it said Mr Ms 
symptoms were exacerbated by communications with his employer. The report described 
the CBT treatment plan and concluded that to help Mr Ms recovery his return to work 
should be to a conducive work environment or role where the issues giving rise to his illness 
are unlikely to recur.  
A further report by the therapist in November 2020 said Mr M was continuing to engage in 
CBT. It said some progress had been made, but symptoms of anxiety, acute sense of dread 
and related depression continued due to the work-related issues being unresolved. And it 
referenced a meeting Mr M had with his line manager, which caused him to experience a 
substantial worsening and aggravation of his symptoms. 
In his claim form, which was completed in late June 2020, Mr M stated his illness to be 
work-related stress and listed his symptoms to include anxiety, depression, insomnia and a 
lack of energy, concentration and focus. He also referenced a flare up of another condition 
which he stated was stress related. And Mr M said his GP had diagnosed stress at work.One area of the claim form asked about how the condition and symptoms affected Mr Ms 
ability to work. And Mr M stated that his symptoms were greatly exacerbated when he 
previously returned to work from a period of sick leave in March 2020. 
Unum declined the claim. It said it thought the main barrier to working was work-place issues 
and there wasnt sufficient evidence of the presence of a functionally impairing mental health 
condition.
Mr M complained to Unum and asked it to review its decision. He provided further reports 
from his GP and Therapist. 
The GP report said Mr Ms symptoms had first been related to stress at work. And went on to 
say that Mr M continued to feel a sense of dread about work, and that hed likely be unable 
to return until the workplace issues were resolved. 
The report from the therapist gave more information about Mr M suffering with an anxiety 
disorder with low mood. And it referred to the workplace issues still being present and 
making Mr Ms anxiety more severe, and causing him to be unable to function in the work 
environment. 
Unum said it had reviewed the claim again together with the additional reports, and thought it 
had been correct to decline it. It said it had asked its company psychiatrist to review the 
medical evidence, and they had concluded the primary cause of Mr Ms absence from work, 
and his continued absence, was work-related issues and stress, and not a mental illness. 
And it said it thought the barriers preventing Mr M from working were specific to his place of 
employment, and the evidence didnt support that he was unable to carry out the material 
and substantial duties of his role. 
Unhappy with Unums response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Unum had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. 
Unum made no comment on the investigators view. However, Mr M disagreed and asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman. In summary he said he had been absent from work due to 
an illness including anxiety, depression and stress, and not due to workplace issues. He said 
the workplace issues caused his illness, but he had been experiencing those issues for 
some time and had remained in work. 
Mr M also disagreed with the conclusions the investigator drew from the medical reports and 
said he had been confirmed as unfit for work by his GP, an Occupational Health consultant 
and his therapist. 
And so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of the struggles Mr M has had with his mental health. My 
assessment here is not based on whether Mr M has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at whether I think the evidence supports that he met the definition of incapacity set out in the 
policy, and for the duration of the deferred period. 
If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
For Mr M to make a successful claim, he would need to demonstrate that he was unable to 
perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation, due to illness or injury, 
throughout the deferred period. 
Having reviewed the medical evidence, I dont think Unum acted unfairly in declining Mr Ms 
claim. And I say this for the following reasons.
Although Mr M was continually signed off work by his GP, Im not persuaded this 
sufficiently demonstrates he was incapacitated, as its evident the majority of 
commentary by the GP about symptoms, relates to Mr Ms self-reporting. And, the 
threshold criteria for a GP to certify someone as unfit for work is not the same as the 
policy definition of incapacity. 
The medical reports Ive reviewed contain multiple references to Mr M having 
experienced workplace stress due to issues with his employer. And they offer little 
commentary on how Mr Ms symptoms affected his ability to work.  The GP notes 
and Occupational Health reports reflect that the barriers to Mr M attending work, 
were related to workplace issues. This included his relationship with his line 
manager, and management attitudes towards part-time working. And the reports from 
Mr Ms therapist also reflect that workplace issues were both the trigger for Mr Ms 
absence and the barrier to him returning to work. 
The occupational health reports reference Mr M being unfit for work. This 
assessment is based on the information Mr M self-reported about his condition, and 
would not have taken into account the policy definition of incapacity. So it doesnt 
automatically follow that because Mr M was deemed unfit for work by Occupational 
Health, the claim should be paid. 
Within his claim form, Mr M stated his stress was directly related to work. And 
together with the details of the workplace issues within the reports Ive mentioned 
above, I think this consistently evidences that the problems Mr M experienced at 
work are what caused him to feel unwell and ultimately led to his need to take time 
off and his continued absence. 
Stress in itself is not considered an illness, but rather a reaction to a set of 
circumstances. And although I accept the symptoms of stress can be debilitating and 
can often lead to more serious mental health problems, Ive not been sufficiently 
persuaded that is the case here. 
Whilst Ive considered that Mr Ms CBT therapist said hed developed a depressive 
illness, all of the other evidence Ive seen points to the issues in Mr Ms workplace as 
being the cause of his absence, and inability to return to work.  Within the same 
report, the therapist said Mr Ms symptoms were exacerbated by communications 
with his employer. And in the next report in November 2020, the therapist said Mr M 
had made progress through CBT, but his anxiety and related depression symptoms had continued, because the workplace issues were unresolved, and work meetings 
were worsening the symptoms.  
So Im persuaded the cause of Mr Ms continued absence from work was related to 
his workplace issues, rather than a functionally impairing mental health condition. 
Mr M reported suffering with various symptoms of stress and anxiety, and Im aware 
he was prescribed an anti-depressant medication. But in order to be eligible for 
benefit under the terms of the policy, the medical evidence would have to support 
that he was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of his role as an 
analyst. The policy isnt specific to Mr Ms job with his current employer. So for a 
successful claim, he would have needed to demonstrate he was unable to carry out 
the material and substantial duties of his role for any employer, due to illness. And I 
dont think hes done that, as its clear from the evidence Ive seen, that he has said 
his symptoms were related to stress at work and linked to the actions and behaviours 
of his employer. So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr M would most likely been 
able to perform his role for another employer, where the same workplace issues 
wouldnt have been present. 
In conclusion, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude Mr M had been unable 
to work due to workplace issues, rather than a significantly impairing mental illness. And so I 
dont think its decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman