DRN-4327250
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(Chaucer) declined her claim under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by the parties so I dont intend to go into 
significant detail here.  
In summary, Mrs F bought a single trip travel insurance policy, via a comparison website.  
She completed the medical history questions and declared two conditions - anxiety and 
depression. Both conditions were accepted by Chaucer, who charged Mrs F an additional 
premium. 
Unfortunately, while she was away, Mrs F was taken ill and needed hospital treatment. She 
was subsequently diagnosed with a gastric ulcer. Ultimately, she returned home sooner than 
expected so her treatment could continue in the UK. She submitted a claim to Chaucer.
Chaucer initially paid part of her claim  but significantly less than Mrs F expected. It 
subsequently declined the claim outright as it believes the purpose of Mrs Fs trip fell outside 
of the policy terms. Chaucer believes Mrs F was travelling for medical treatment; something 
the policy specifically excludes. It has also said Mrs Fs travel plans did not meet the 
definition of a trip as shown in her policy documents.
Mrs F disagrees. She says she was travelling to have treatment for her mental health 
conditions, which she had declared to Chaucer. Shes also explained the condition that 
warranted her admission to hospital is unrelated to her mental health and therefore not a 
pre-existing condition. She complained to Chaucer, but it did not change its position.  
Our investigator considered Mrs Fs complaint and upheld it. He wasnt satisfied Chaucer 
could rely on the policy exclusion for travelling with the intention of receiving medical 
treatment.  In his opinion, as the policy terms did not specifically define medical treatment, 
the claim should be covered.
Chaucer disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint as my findings differed from that of our 
investigator. I invited both parties to provide any further information they wanted me to 
consider. In my provisional decision, which forms part of this decision, I said:
Ive carefully considered the obligations placed on Chaucer by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA).  Its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) includes 
the requirement for Chaucer to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
Ive also considered the terms of the travel insurance policy Mrs F holds with Chaucer. The 
policy documents are important as they set out the terms of the contract entered into by the 
parties.  
As explained above, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. I understand 
Mrs F will be very disappointed, especially as my provisional findings will leave her with 
outstanding costs. I appreciate how difficult that situation will be for her, given the recent 
difficulties shes experienced.
But based on everything provided to me, I do not intend to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Let me 
explain.
Im satisfied Mrs Fs trip does not fall within the definition of trip within the policy terms. The 
definition of trip is: 
any holiday, leisure or business trip which begins and ends in Your Home 
Country during the period of insurance for which You have paid the appropriate 
premium...  
Mrs F was travelling to a rehabilitation centre for treatment for anxiety and depression. Shed 
enrolled on a 28-day treatment programme, following a significant deterioration in her mental 
health. It follows that the purpose of her trip could not reasonably be considered a holiday, 
for leisure purposes or for business.
And whilst the policy terms do not specifically define medical treatment, I think its 
reasonable to consider Mrs Fs stay at the rehabilitation centre falls within what I would 
consider, medical treatment. The therapists at the centre are specialists in addiction 
recovery, counselling, and other therapeutic practices. According to the information available 
to me, they are registered with various regulatory bodies that support their practice. The 
rehabilitation centre also refers to its clients as inpatients. 
I understand Mrs F had not been diagnosed with a gastric ulcer before she travelled and 
therefore wasnt travelling to receive medical treatment for her ulcer. 
But because the nature of Mrs Fs overall trip  to the rehabilitation centre - fell outside of the 
policy terms, this means the policy wasnt suitable for her travel plans. 
I understand Mrs F bought her policy through a comparison website. As such, Chaucer 
needed to ensure Mrs F had appropriate information, and in good time, to make an informed 
choice about whether the policy was suitable for her needs. Having reviewed the policy 
information, Im satisfied the restrictions on the specific aspects of her cover relevant to this 
complaint were clear.
Unfortunately, in this situation it seems Mrs F inadvertently chose a policy that wasnt 
suitable for her needs. In my experience, there are specialist travel insurance policies that 
would have covered Mrs Fs trip to the rehabilitation centre but that wasnt something 
Chaucer had offered her. And its for Chaucer to decide what types of travel, and the level of 
risk, it wants to cover, for the premium charged.
Ive gone on to consider what would have happened if Chaucer had been aware of Mrs Fs 
travel plans. And Im satisfied it wouldnt have offered this policy for her trip, and therefore no 
premium would have been payable. The premium Mrs F paid was significantly less than the 
amount Chaucer has paid in part settlement of her claim, and as its not looking to recoup the payments its made, Im satisfied theres nothing further it needs to do.
Chaucer confirmed it did not have anything further for me to consider.  
Mrs F provided further information which Ive considered in detail before reaching my final 
decision.
Mrs F has said her trip included opportunities to participate in walks and to visit sites 
of interest.  Im not persuaded having the opportunity, outside of the scheduled daily 
programme, to visit sites of interest means her trip was for a holiday or leisure 
purposes.  
Mrs F has said her employer paid for her trip to help her recover and save the 
business, therefore I should consider this a business trip.  Im not persuaded this trip 
was for business purposes.  Im aware Mrs F is self-employed.  Ive not been 
provided with any evidence which shows Mrs F was travelling for purposes directly 
connected to her business. 
Mrs F has raised concerns about the service she received from Chaucer.  I 
appreciate the points shes raised.  Chaucer has accepted the service she received 
wasnt up to standard and has apologised.  But as Chaucer has paid part of Mrs Fs 
claim, albeit in error, and is not looking to recoup the payment, Im not satisfied 
further compensation is warranted.
Whilst I have the upmost sympathy for Mrs Fs situation, the further evidence shes provided 
does not change my mind about the outcome of this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking Chaucer Insurance 
Company Designated Activity Company to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman