DRN-3423743
The complaint
Mr H complains that PSFM SIPP Limited (PSFM) failed to carry out sufficient checks 
when accepting his application for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and allowed 
his investment in a high-risk illiquid investment. Mr H says he has suffered a loss and 
considerable distress as a result.
What happened
The parties
PSFM SIPP Limited
PSFM SIPP Limited trades as Punter Southall Financial Management SIPP. It is a 
regulated SIPP provider and administrator. It is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to 
arrange (bring about) deals in investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, 
operate or wind up a pension scheme and make arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments. It is not, and was not at the time of events in this complaint, 
authorised to give investment advice.
The adviser
An adviser was involved in Mr Hs application. I will call him Mr A. He was registered 
with the Financial Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
as an approved person. An approved person is a person the regulator has approved to 
do one or more activities, called controlled functions, for an authorised firm.
The FCA register shows Mr A was registered to perform the controlled function CF21 
Investment Adviser from 2005 to October 2007 and CF30 Customer from November 
2007 to 22 July 2010.The register also shows that Mr A was approved to perform those 
functions at Openwork Limited which is an authorised firm, authorised amongst other 
things to advise on pensions and investments.
According to the FCA register Mr A was employed by a business called Henderson 
Stone & Co Ltd between 2006 and 22 July 2010. That business was registered with the 
FSA, now the FCA. And the FCA register shows it was recorded as an appointed 
representative of Openwork from 2005 to 16 August 2010.
Henderson Stone was not itself authorised by the FSA, so it did not have any authority 
from the FSA/FCA as such.
In brief, only persons (which includes companies) authorised by the regulator may give 
regulated investment advice. This is referred to as the general prohibition. An exception 
to this general rule is that an authorised person may appoint representatives to act for it 
and the authorised person must take responsibility for the activities it authorises the 
representative to carry out. In this relationship the authorised person is called the 
principal.
I understand from dealing with a different complaint that Openwork says Mr A worked at 
Henderson Stone and it was an independent contractor pursuant to a franchise contract 
with Openwork. And that its franchise contract authorises an approved adviser at a 
franchisee firm such as Mr A to act as an appointed representative of Openwork.
Mr A was therefore authorised by Openwork to carry on the activities it 
(Openwork) authorised him to carry out.
Openwork has told Mr H that Mr A was suspended by Openwork, and not permitted by it 
to give investment advice, from 23 April 2010 until he resigned on 17 July 2010. 
The investment
The Resort Group
The Resort Group (TRG) was founded in 2007. TRG owns a series of resorts in Cape 
Verde. TRG sold hotel rooms to UK consumers, either as whole entities or as fractional 
shares ownership in a company. TRG was not regulated by the financial services 
regulator.
This case involves a fractional investment into property at TRGs Dunas Beach Resort.
As I understand it, the total agreed price was around EUR 75,000 for a 25% share of a 
property. The price was to be paid by stages. Mr H paid around £39,000 as a down 
payment from his SIPP. This means the pension bought membership of a limited 
company with the company buying promissory contracts to buy a property at the resort.
As I understand it, there have been difficulties with the Dunas Beach investments and 
legal completion has not taken place for some if not all properties. So (at least some) of 
the investments have turned out to be in what are now dormant companies with no 
assets. I do not know if that is the case with Mr Hs investment, but I understand it is 
illiquid and no value can be realised for it for Mr Hs pension scheme.
The relationship between Mr A and PSFM
PSFM has explained things as follows:
Mr A used to visit the PSFM offices personally and drop off documentation which he had 
completed with the client.
It had an introducer agreement with Mr A, but it cannot now locate it.
Although it cannot find the actual agreement completed back in 2010 it had a standard 
introduction agreement with financial advisers. And it provided a copy. (The copy refers to 
the regulator as the FCA but it was still the FSA in 2010 so the version that has been 
provided cannot be the exactly correct version but I assume it is the same in all material 
respects.)
The standard form agreement (in which PSFM is referred to as the Company) included the 
following:
oThe Introducer is either a Solicitor, Accountant, or is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, with registration number [].
oThe Company wishes to appoint the Introducer to introduce Individuals 
to it who wish to enter into a Self-Invested Personal Pension operated by 
the Company.
oThe Introducer wishes to accept the appointment and has agreed to 
introduce individuals to the Company to enable those individuals to enter 
into a PSFM SIPP.
oThe introducer accepts responsibility for the suitability of any advice 
provided to the Individual in respect of any Investments comprised within the 
PSFM SIPP in accordance with the requirements of the FCAs Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
oThe Introducer accepts that the Company does not provide any 
activities that could be construed as either advising on investments  or 
managing investments
oThe introducer warrants and undertakes to the Company that:
It is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, authorised and 
regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the 
appropriate FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or 
manage a discretionary investment portfolio on behalf of, the 
Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the 
Introducer Agreement.
The setting up of the SIPP etc
Mr H says he was contacted by Mr A about some existing life and pension plans.   
Mr H says he had recently been made redundant and was recovering from important 
surgery. Mr A seemed to have the answer to his problems: pulling pensions together and 
releasing money he could spend on a car (Mr H had lost his car on being made 
redundant) with money left over to invest in a good investment Mr A said he was 
investing in himself  the Dunas Beah resort investment.
Mr H signed an application form for a SIPP with PSFM. This was dated 14 June 2010.
At around this time Mr H also signed a document headed Non-financial Advice Fee. I 
will quote it in an anonymised form. The errors are in the original. It said:
Mr A has provided no Financial Advice in relation to this investment into the 
Punter Southall SIPP.
No time has Mr A given Financial Advice on this investment or instructed Mr H to 
take out a SIPP.
Mr H wishes to consider alternative option for his current plan and instructed Mr 
A to assist in the introduction to Punter Southall.Mr H was offered the opportunity to consider other SIPP Providers but declined.
Mr H is a client of Mr A through Openwork however he is not interested in any 
services the company provides in relation to Financial Advice. Openwork do 
provide access to a SIPP however Mr H was not interested in this facility as he 
didnt want advice.
Mr A confirmed this was not related to Openwork products or services. Mr H 
understood this to be the case.
Mr A has assisted Mr H in the intrioduction to Punter Southall and has charged a 
fee of 2.5% [this figure is handwritten and initialled presumably by Mr A and Mr H] 
which is to be deducted by Punter Southall for the time Mr A has spent on the 
administration, travel and meetings with the client, Punter Southall to assist Mr H.
Mr H confirmed he is happy for this fee to be deducted from his SIPP fund and 
accepts this is a reasonable fee for the work to be carried out. The fee is based on 
an introduction only basis.
[signed] 
Mr H 
14/6/10
Mr H does not recall signing the above and says it was a difficult time for him with his 
recent redundancy and recovering from surgery.
The SIPP was opened on 14 June 2010 and on 30 June 2010 it received a transfer in of 
nearly £67,000 from Mr Hs existing pension provider. On 1 July 2010 tax free cash of 
about £17,000 was paid out to Mr H, IFA Fees of £1,717.75 were paid to Mr A, and 
nearly £39,000 was paid out of the SIPP in respect of the property investment.
Income referred to as property income or dividends in the SIPP account statement was 
paid into the account from 2015. Mr H says the income received has not been enough to 
cover the fees on the SIPP.
Complaint against Openwork
In 2018 Mr H complained to Openwork. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr H referred 
the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and in 2020 an Ombudsman issued 
a decision that agreed Openwork was not responsible for the advice Mr A had given as 
it had not authorised him to advise on PSFM SIPPs or the Dunas Beach investment.
Complaint against PSFM
Mr H also complained to PSFM in 2018. It did not uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. PSFM said:
Mr A introduced Mr H as a potential client on 8 June 2010. Mr A was an 
appointed representative of Openwork at that time. If Openwork had 
suspended him at that time this was not shown on the FSA register.
It is aware of the regulators expectations on it as a SIPP provider.
It carried out appropriate checks on Mr A and on the investment.Mr A was an authorised adviser when he introduced Mr Hs business to it.
Mr A was responsible for any advice he gave.
The investment was of a type that is permitted in a SIPP.
Mr H should complain to Openwork.
I note that in relation to the non-financial advice agreement document, PSFM said 
the following in its final response letter to Mr H (again quoted in anonymised form):
With the benefit of your information that Openwork have informed you that [Mr 
A]s Openwork licences had been suspended by Openwork, this may explain 
why he got you to sign the enclosed disclaimer Due to the nature of the 
financial services terminology used within the letter, this document has the 
appearance as though it was prepared by Mr A and given to you to sign. If that 
was the case then Mr A has not acted in accordance with the Statements of 
Principles and Code of Practice for FSA Approved Persons which applied in 
2010.
And if this was the case then it could be argued that he has intentionally tried to 
circumnavigate his responsibilities to you his client. As an adviser he was 
responsible for determining whether the transfer of your pension into a SIPP 
was the most appropriate course of action for you. As your adviser he also had a 
responsibility to you to ensure that investing in the fractional share in Dunas 
Beach Resort was aligned to your attitude to risk as well as meeting your needs 
and objectives.
The provisional decision
I issued a provision decision in Mr Hs complaint in March 2022.  After first 
discussing the relevant considerations I am required to take into account when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I said:
The role of Mr A
PSFM had processes in place for checking the investments it was prepared to 
allow in its SIPP and the introducers it was willing to accept business from. It 
has explained it had processes in place before the 2009 Thematic Review 
report was published and it has referred to the points made in that report to 
explain why it thinks it acted reasonably at the time.
PSFM says part of the report focuses on the relationship with introducers and 
that it undertook the checks referred to  checking that advisers who introduce 
clients to it were FSA authorised and had appropriate permissions. Mr A was an 
approved person and the firm for which Mr A acted, Openwork, had the relevant 
permissions to provide investment advice. It carried out its checks periodically 
and on an ongoing basis.
PSFM is a regulated business. It is an execution only SIPP operator. And it was 
under a regulatory obligation to conduct its business, in that limited non-advisory 
capacity, with due skill, care and diligence, manage its affairs responsibly with 
adequate risk management and effectively, and pay due regard to its customers 
interests and treat them fairly.
As mentioned above, PSFM entered into an introducer agreement with Mr A and, though it cannot find the original, PSFM says the agreement included the 
following:
[The Introducer] is, and for the duration of this Agreement will 
be, authorised and regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the 
appropriate FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or 
manage a discretionary investment portfolio on behalf of, the 
Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under 
the Introducer Agreement.
In 2009 the regulator gave examples of good industry practice, including:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries 
that advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that 
they have the appropriate permissions to give the advice they are 
providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the 
FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing 
relationships, and clarifying respective responsibilities, with 
intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
And PSFM says it has met those standards. I do not however agree.
PSFM should have had a reasonable understanding of the need for those 
giving regulated advice to be regulated. It should reasonably have understood 
the appointed representative/principal relationship. It should have understood 
that the appointed representatives regulated status relies entirely on its 
principal  it is not free to do whatever it wants to independently.
And PSFM should reasonably have understood the principals business model 
when considering doing business with an appointed representative.
It was PSFMs understanding Mr A would be giving regulated investment advice 
to clients he introduced to it. While Mr Hs [introduction] seems to have 
purported to be on a non-advised basis, it was PSFMs general understanding 
that Mr A would give regulated advice to the clients he introduced to it.
PSFM was content about this because it understood Mr A was an approved 
person and was an appointed representative of Openwork which was authorised 
to give investment advice. And so PSFM entered into an introducer agreement 
with Mr A personally and accepted the business he referred to it including Mr Hs 
application for a SIPP, request to transfer his existing pension to it and invest in 
the Dunas Beach resort investment. And it paid a fee to him personally from Mr 
Hs SIPP account.
However PSFM should have been aware of the implications of Mr A being an 
appointed representative of Openwork.
As an appointed representative Mr A was not an authorised person in his own 
right. He was only approved by the FSA to give advice on behalf of Openwork. Mr As authority to give advice came from Openwork. He was only 
authorised to do the things Openwork authorised him to do.
Openwork is a restricted product range firm, not a whole of market adviser. And 
PSFM should have known that if it was considering doing business with one of its 
appointed representatives. It should also have known that it (PSFM) had no 
arrangement with Openwork  that it was not on Openworks panel of approved 
providers it did business with. Put another way, it should have known Openwork, 
and therefore its advisers, did not do business with it.
So as a general point PSFM should have known an appointed representative is 
only authorised if it acts within the authority given by its principal. And in 
relation to a restricted advice firm, such as Openwork, PSFM should have 
known that the authority given by the principal would be restricted. And it 
should have understood that advising on its SIPP would not be something an 
Openwork appointed representative was authorised by Openwork to do.
And PSFM should have understood that if Mr A did not have the authority of his 
principal to advise on its SIPPs there was a real risk he would be breaching the 
general prohibition if he was introducing SIPP business and taking responsibility 
for the suitability of the SIPP.
It is permitted for unregulated introducers to introduce business to SIPP 
providers but that is not what PSFM understood its relationship with Mr A to be. 
It thought he was regulated and would be giving regulated investment advice 
about the suitability of its SIPPs for its potential customers.
There is also the point that if Mr A was acting beyond his authority with his 
principal he might not be dealing with it an open and appropriate way. Why, for 
example, was Mr A trying to do business with a SIPP provider that was not 
Openworks approved provider? Was he trying to do business he was 
deliberately not reporting to his principal? Or did he just not understand the 
obligations he was under? These points raise questions about Mr As character 
and/or competence and whether Mr A was an appropriate person to be doing 
SIPP business with, whether it was in its customers best interest to do business 
with him. These points should have been matters of serious concern for PSFM 
which should have meant that it ensured it only accepted business from Mr A 
that was authorised by Openwork  or in other words it should have entered into 
the introducer agreement with Openwork not Mr A, or no agreement at all.
But PSFM was not on Openworks panel of SIPP providers so it would not 
have entered into an introducer agreement with PSFM so that Mr A could 
introduce the business he wanted to do.
There is no evidence that Openwork did in fact authorise Mr A to do business 
with PSFM and it has refused to accept responsibility for the advice Mr A gave 
to Mr H.
If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that Mr A was 
not authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept 
any business from Mr A. PSFM could and should have refused Mr Hs 
application without going beyond its normal contractual role and regulators 
permissions and without giving him advice on the suitability of the investment for 
him.I make all the above points regardless of the non-financial advice agreement. I 
am not sure if PSFM admits that it received that document at the time of Mr Hs 
application in 2010. It did pay a fee of £1,717.75 to him. PSFM will have wanted 
to see some kind of evidence to justify that payment out of the SIPP so it seems 
likely PSFM did see the document in 2010. In another complaint where one of 
Mr As other clients signed a very similar agreement PSFM referred to the 
document as concerning, but there is no evidence PSFM had any concerns 
about the agreement in 2010 in Mr Hs case. If it did see the document the 
points PSFM makes about it are further reason why it should not have accepted 
Mr Hs application. The document does indeed seem to have been an attempt 
by Mr A to circumvent his responsibilities and casts serious doubts on the issue 
of whether Mr A was an appropriate person to do business with. So if PSFM did 
see the document at the time of the application it is further reason why PSFM 
should have refused Mr Hs application.
PSFM should not have accepted Mr Hs application for a SIPP and transferred 
his existing personal pension to it. And this means it would not have made the 
investment to Dunas Beach for Mr H because he would have had no SIPP to 
make the investment from.
Did PSFMs failings cause Mr Hs loss?
I cannot see that there is any evidence that Mr H was motivated to open his SIPP 
and invest in PSFM because of, for example, an incentive payment as in the 
Adams v Options SIPP case. It is the case that he was in a difficult financial 
position having lost his job and needing a car. But it was not essential for Mr A to 
transfer his pension to a SIPP and invest in the Dunas Beach resort to release the 
tax free cash given Mr Hs age at the time. And in particular there is nothing to 
indicate that Mr H would have invested in the Dunas Beach Resort investment if 
he had not been encouraged to do so by Mr A. And Mr A only acted in that way 
because PSFM agreed to accept the business he referred to it.
I do not consider it likely that Mr H would have been advised to move his pension 
to Openworks authorised SIPP to make the same investment by Mr A acting on 
behalf of Openwork. It was not an Openwork authorised investment. Nor do I 
consider that any other regulated financial adviser acting reasonably would have 
advised Mr H that investing his pension in the Dunas Beach investment was 
suitable for him. It is a higher risk, esoteric investment that is unsuitable for a 
pension investment for most retail investors.
I therefore consider it unlikely that Mr H would have suffered the same loss if 
PSFM had refused to accept his application.
In conclusion
It is my view that in the light of what PSFM knew, or ought to have known, 
about 
Mr A and his principal Openwork before it received Mr Hs application, it didnt 
comply with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, 
organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr H fairly by accepting his 
application. And I think that, in not doing so, it allowed him to be put at 
significant risk of detriment.  It did not act in its customers best interest as 
required in its role as an execution only SIPP provider.For the avoidance  of doubt,  Im not saying  that PSFM  should  have  
assessed  the suitability  of the investment  or the SIPP  for Mr H. I accept  
that PSFM  had no obligation  to give advice  to Mr H, or otherwise  ensure  
the suitability  of a pension  product  or investment  for him. My finding  is not 
that PSFM  should  have  concluded  that the investment  or SIPP  was not 
suitable  for Mr H. Rather  it is that PSFM  did not meet  its regulatory  
obligations,  or treat Mr H fairly,  by accepting  his application  for a SIPP  
introduced  by Mr A.
I then went on to explain how I thought PSFM should put things right.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr H agrees with the provisional decision.  He says that he has no recollection of signing the 
non-financial advice agreement and does not have a copy of it in his records. He also 
provided a copy of an email in June 2010 from PSFM relating to his application sent to an 
email address relating to another business Mr A ran rather than the financial advice 
business.  Mr H says this shows PSFM had a relatively familiar and informal relationship with 
Mr A.
PSFM does not agree with the Provisional Decision.  Its lawyers made a number of points 
including:
There are no grounds for holding PSFM liable for Mr Hs losses.
PSFM fully understands the nature of the principal agent relationship.
There was nothing irregular about the status of Mr A.
Mr A appeared to be an employee of Henderson Stone & Co Ltd in the Financial 
Services Register until July 2010.  Mr Hs SIPP application was in June 2010.
At the time of the advice, unbeknown to PSFM, Mr A was suspended from 
conducting regulated business by Openwork.  
Openwork ought to have notified the FCA and removed Mr As name from the 
register when it first had concerns.
Even if PSFM had searched the register at the time of Mr Hs application it would 
have found Mr As name as being a person authorised with CF30 Customer function 
and to the outside world as being a person authorised to undertake regulated 
activities. 
PSFM was acting upon publicly available information and should not be penalised for 
doing so.  Henderson Stone continued to be an appointed representative of 
Openwork until 16 August 2010.
The Financial Services register is a statutory register.  PSFM was entitled to rely 
upon it. 
A fair and reasonable expectation is that PSFM should check the Financial Services 
Register upon working with a new introducer and thereafter periodically.  That is what 
it did. 
There is nothing in the extract of the FCA publications referred to in the provisional 
decision that would require investigation of an appointed representatives principal 
beyond checking the register as PSFM did.
The terms of business agreed between PSFM and Mr A satisfy the second FCA point 
quoted in the provisional decision.
It is asserted in the provisional decision that because Openwork had not appointed 
PSFM to its panel of SIPP providers Openwork must not have permitted its appointed 
representative such as Mr A to engage with it.  This may or may not be true but cannot be known without a close reading of the appointed representative agreement 
between Openwork and Henderson Stone under which Mr A operated.
Openworks refusal to accept liability for Mr Hs loss is entirely predictable on 
commercial grounds.  And no weight should be attached to this refusal.
Further as an employee of Henderson Stone it is vicariously liable for Mr As actions.
The Provisional Decision says there is no evidence that Openwork authorised Mr A 
to perform this line of business.  PSFM says it should be the other way around.  
Without an analysis of the appointed representative agreement that governed Mr As 
operations there is no evidence that openwork didnt authorise Mr A  beyond 
Openworks refusal to compensate Mr H which is questionable as evidence against 
PSFM for obvious reasons.
In the case of R (on the application of TenetConnect Services Ltd) v Financial. 
Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) a pension investor was advised to 
switch certain investments held with reputable insurance companies into a SIPP and 
purchase among other things a property in Goa.  That investment was a scam.  
The ombudsman in that case was clear that the advice to sell regulated investments 
and switch into the Goan property was one piece of advice and therefore within the 
scope of the ombudsmans jurisdiction.  The court agreed. 
So, whether the advice to invest within Dunas Beach constituted advice within the 
scope of Mr As authority, the advice Mr A gave to Mr H to sell his existing pension to 
fund the investment almost certainly was within that scope.  The advice to sell and 
the advice to buy were part of a single braided stream of advice  the term used in 
the TenetConnect judgment.
The case of Anderson v Sense Network also says that a principal is liable for the acts 
and omissions of the appointed representative that are within the scope of his 
authority but performed negligently. Although the Anderson v Sense case did not 
consider whether there was a single braided stream of advice as in the 
TenetConnect case and it does not contradict that case.
The point of the TenetConnect decision is that a single braided stream of advice 
does constitute regulated advice and is therefore within the scope of the appointed 
representatives authority if the authority would have captured the selling advice on a 
standalone basis. 
So Openworks assertion that it is not responsible because the advice to buy Dunas 
Beach investment was outside its authority is wrong.
The duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally under COBS 2.1.1R must be 
considered in the context of the contractual arrangements that Mr H has with PSFM.  
The analysis in the High Court decision on this point in Adams v Options SIPP UK 
LLP applies equally to PSFM and Mr Hs relationship.
It is no part of the Provisional Decision that PSFM should have advised Mr H on the 
merits of his investment.  PSFM provides an execution only service and Mr H was 
aware of this when he signed up to PSFMs terms of business.  This is a point of 
agreement with the Provisional Decision and is relevant to the question of what 
caused Mr Hs loss.
The advice from Mr A to: 
osell regulated investments
oopen a SIPP with PSFM
oinvest in the Dundas Beach Resort project 
constitutes a single braided stream of advice to use terms from the TenetConnect 
case.
To find PSFM liable two steps are necessary:
ofirst, to unravel the braid and separate out the advice to open the SIPP from 
the other two streams
osecondly, an argument must be constructed that even treated in isolation, 
PSFMs decision to allow Mr H to open the SIPP was wrong.But this does not make sense.
Mr A appeared to the world as fully entitled to conduct regulated business of his 
appearance in the Financial Services Register, where he was listed at the date of Mr 
Hs application to PSFM.
In any event registration was not necessary as it is permitted for unregulated 
introducers to introduce business to SIPP providers.
So treating the opening of the SIPP in isolation, there are no grounds for finding 
PSFM did anything wrong at all.
The only plausible grounds for rejecting the SIPP are that the investment that the 
SIPP proposed was unsuitable  contrary to what was said in the Provisional 
Decision. And this is not a determination that PSFM should have or was entitled to 
make.
So PSFM is not responsible for the losses incurred by Mr H.
Even if it were appropriate to unravel the braided stream of advice (which is not 
conceded) and treat the opening of the SIPP in isolation it is difficult to show that that 
act by itself caused Mr H any loss.
A SIPP taken in isolation is just an empty wrapper.  It is only when that wrapper is 
seeded with invested capital that profits or loss become possible.
The but for test is not satisfied.  Mr H was obviously enthused by the possibility of 
returns offered by the Dunas Beach Resort project and it is not obvious that if PSFM 
had refused to open a SIPP for Mr H that he would not simply have gone somewhere 
else to get access to this opportunity.  This is especially so as PSFM was neither 
obligated to pronounce nor capable of pronouncing, on the suitability of the 
investment.
In any event the but for test is only a preliminary filter.  Even if no other SIPP 
operator would have allowed the investment, the losses were caused by the 
intervening act Mr As advice to Mr H which breaks the chain of causation between 
PSFM and Mr Hs application and the losses suffered on the Dunas Beach Resort 
project.
The reasoning in the Provisional Decision seems to deprive Mr A of all responsibility 
for his actions.  The general principle is that the free acts of a person intended to 
exploit the situation created by a defendant negatives causal connection.
Mr As actions are the critical causal factor that caused Mr Hs loss and Openwork 
bears full responsibility for those actions.  They are nothing to do with PSFM.
PSFM is not therefore liable for the losses suffered by Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint 
include Principle 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care 
to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate 
risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of 
the FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority 
[2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They 
are but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles 
is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA, Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the 
Ombudsman to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account 
in deciding what would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even 
if no Principles had been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to 
fulfil its particular statutory duty without having regard to the sort of high level 
Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. 
They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument 
about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service 
[2018] EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim 
challenging the decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint 
against it.  The ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry 
practice at the relevant time. He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for 
Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in respect of the investment before 
allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, it would have refused to 
accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had therefore not 
complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 
162 set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not 
merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA 
shows that they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general 
application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as those set out in 
Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. 
The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the 
Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that 
were required to be taken into account.
Ive considered the High Court decision in Adams v Options SIPP. Since that decision 
the Court of Appeal has handed down its judgment following its consideration of Mr 
Adams appeal. Ive taken both judgments into account when making this decision.
Ive considered whether the judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken 
into account in deciding this case and I find that they dont. In the High Court judgment, 
Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and 
they didnt form part of the pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. The Court of Appeal 
judgment gave no consideration to the application of the Principles either. So, Adams v 
Options SIPP says nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the 
ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of 
statutory duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles 
into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
case. And, Jacobs J adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in 
BBSAL. I am therefore satisfied that the FCAs Principles are a relevant 
consideration that I must take into account when deciding this complaint.
COBS 2.1.1R
The rule says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R overlaps with certain of the Principles, and that this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the Adams v Options SIPP case. Mr Adams 
pleaded that Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of 
which, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS 
claim). HHJ Dight rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the 
best interests rule on the facts of the Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the 
COBS claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was 
radically different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr 
Adams appeal did not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight 
had dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new 
case.
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R remains a relevant consideration  but that it 
needs to be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and 
within the factual context of Mr Hs case.I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams and from the issues in Mr Hs complaint. The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R, alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Hs case, including PSFMs role in 
the transaction. 
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint 
and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined 
by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications 
which remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might 
achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered those publications but will only refer to the 2009 Thematic 
Review in detail.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide 
advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) 
insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. 
COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a client for 
COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. It is 
the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual 
risks to themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer 
outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the 
SIPP advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that 
SIPP operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would 
expect them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and 
analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible instances 
of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving 
advice and asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for 
the advice, there is a reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs 
that are unsuitable or detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances 
of poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against 
SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take 
reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems)
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not 
appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.

Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries 
introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the 
SIPP investment) and size of investments recommended by 
intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so 
that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small 
or large transactions or more esoteric investments such as 
unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that introduced 
the business. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned 
about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by 
the intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not 
responsible for advice, having this information would enhance the 
firms understanding of its clients, making the facilitation of 
unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have 
signed disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment 
decisions, and gathering and analysing data regarding the 
aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, 
and the reasons for this.Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody 
of assets is through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual 
agreements are correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at 
point of purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that 
previous investors have received income if expected, or that any 
investment providers are credit worthy etc.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports 
and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance 
should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication for the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it 
is treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. 
In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP 
operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the time, and I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take 
them into account.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications 
(other than the 2009 Thematic Review Report) post-date the events that are the 
subject of this complaint mean that the examples of good industry practice they 
provide were not good practice at the time of the events. The later publications were 
published after the events subject to this complaint, but the Principles that underpin 
them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with those 
Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter 
published in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business already. So, 
whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of 
how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it 
is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
It is important to bear in mind that the reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the 
suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to 
the Dear CEO letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will 
depend on the circumstances.
Its also important to keep in mind the judgments in Adams v Options did not consider 
the regulatory publications in the context of considering what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part 
of the regulators rules) or good industry practice.
Overall, in determining this complaint I need to consider whether PSFM complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and 
effectively, to pay due regards to the interests of its customers (in this case Mr H), to 
treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of 
what PSFM could have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Due diligence by PSFM and the Introducer Agreement
PSFM is an execution only SIPP operator.  It does not dispute that in that role it had some 
responsibility for the SIPP business it carried on.  It says it has always been aware of the 
obligations it is under especially following the publication of the FSAs report on its Thematic 
Review in 2009.
As mentioned above, that report included:
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could 
consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and 
suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that 
intermediaries that advise clients are authorised and regulated by 
the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not 
appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, 
and clarifying respective responsibilities, with intermediaries 
introducing SIPP business.
PSFM says it made the checks and carried out the steps referred to above.  So it is not in 
dispute that some level of checks were appropriate.  And I do not think it is in dispute that 
PSFM was free to decide not to enter a Terms of Business agreement with a potential 
introducer, and refuse to accept any business from it, if it was not happy with the outcome of 
the checks it made.
PSFMs position is that it made appropriate checks on Mr A, established he was an 
appointed representative of Openwork which was a regulated firm authorised to advise on 
pensions and investments.  PSFM says it entered into an Introducer Agreement with Mr A.  
And as set out above in my Provisional Decision, PSFM says, and I accept, the agreement 
included provisions along the following lines:
The Introducer is either a Solicitor, Accountant, or is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, with registration number [
].
The Company wishes to appoint the Introducer to introduce 
Individuals to it who wish to enter into a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension operated by the Company.
The Introducer wishes to accept the appointment and has agreed to 
introduce individuals to the Company to enable those individuals to enter 
into a PSFM SIPP.
The introducer accepts responsibility for the suitability of any advice 
provided to the Individual in respect of any Investments comprised within 
the PSFM SIPP in accordance with the requirements of the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance.
The introducer warrants and undertakes to the Company that:It is, and for the duration of this Agreement will be, authorised and 
regulated by the FCA
In respect of FCA authorised and regulated firms it has the appropriate 
FSMA Part 4A permissions to provide advice to, or manage a discretionary 
investment portfolio on behalf of, the Individuals
It has full capacity and authority to perform its duties under the Introducer 
Agreement.
The Agreement with Mr A was on the basis he was with an introducer who was authorised 
and regulated by the FSA/FCA - not on the basis Mr A was a solicitor or accountant or an 
unregulated firm that would not be giving regulated advice.
PSFM was content to enter into its Introducer Agreement with Mr A given his status as an 
approved person who was able to give regulated advice as an appointed representative of 
Openwork. But to be clear, PSFM entered into an introducer agreement with Mr A, not with 
Openwork.  
Mr As status as an appointed representative
It is not really in dispute that Mr A was an appointed representative of Openwork at the time 
of the disputed advice in this complaint. If PSFM had checked the register at that time he 
would have appeared to be authorised as an appointed representative even though he was 
apparently suspended at the time.  That was not known to PSFM and so it was not at fault 
for thinking he was an appointed representative of Openwork at the time of Mr Hs 
application in June 2012.
Although Mr A was registered as an appointed representative of Openwork, as I set out in 
my provisional decision, PSFM should not have treated Mr A as if he were an authorised 
person as he was not.  He was only an appointed representative of an authorised person, 
Openwork.  His status was that of approved person only.  His principal, Openwork, was the 
authorised person.  It was Openwork, not Mr, who had the appropriate FSMA Part 4A 
permissions to provide advice
Mr A was only authorised to do the regulated business Openwork authorised him to do.  
Advising on setting up SIPPs and transferring or switching existing pensions to the SIPP and 
advising on buying investments in a SIPP are ordinarily regulated activities.  So as an 
appointed representative Mr A could only do these things if authorised to do so by his 
principal.  Appropriate checks on Mr A should therefore have included checks on and with 
his principal.  
Openwork
As I said in my Provisional Decision, Openwork is a restricted product range firm.  This is a 
point that should have been known to PSFM if it was considering accepting business 
introduced from Mr A who it understood to be an appointed representative of Openwork.  
Openwork limits the pensions and investments its appointed representatives may advise 
upon to an approved list or panel of product provider companies.  And the PSFM SIPP is not 
one of the pensions its advisers are authorised to advise upon.
PSFM is sceptical about what Openwork says it is responsible for. PSFM says its in 
Openworks commercial interest to deny any responsibility for the advice to Mr H.  And it says without an analysis of the appointed representative agreement that governed Mr As 
operations there is no evidence that Openwork didnt authorise Mr A.
The restricted product range business model and the consequences this has on the advice 
an adviser has permission from Openwork to do is not however a point PSFM should have 
ignored or made assumptions about.  PSFM should have carried out reasonable checks, 
consistent with its role as an execution only SIPP operator, so that it could make a decision 
about whether or not to enter into an introducer agreement with Mr A in an appropriately 
informed way.  
PSFM should have known that Openwork operated an approved list of providers for various 
investment products.  And PSFM should have known Openwork had an approved provider 
of SIPPs and that it was not on its approved list of SIPP operators.  So from these points 
alone PSFM ought to have known that it was more likely than not that Mr A was not 
authorised by Openwork to advise on its SIPPs just as Openwork says. 
As I said in my Provisional Decision PSFM should have known this and would have done if it 
had carried out appropriate checks on Mr A.  It would have known if it properly understood 
Mr As regulatory status and checked that he was authorised by his principal to introduce 
PSFMs SIPPs and carry on the regulated activities he was likely to carry on when acting in 
that role  ie advising on and arranging deals in pensions and investments.  Had it done so it 
would have realised Mr A did not have permission from Openwork to carry on those 
regulated activities.
A single braided stream of advice
PSFM says that even if Mr A was not authorised by Openwork to advise on PSFM SIPPs he 
was authorised to advise on the sale of existing personal pensions and so both parts of that 
single linked transaction became authorised.  
PSFM says the point of the TenetConnect decision is that a single braided stream of advice 
does constitute regulated advice and is therefore within the scope of the appointed 
representatives authority if the authority would have captured the selling advice on a 
standalone basis. So Openwork remains responsible for Mr As acts and omissions and 
there is no issue with his advice not being authorised by Openwork.  
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr H complained to Openwork. It did not uphold his complaint. Mr H referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and an Ombudsman agreed that 
Openwork was not responsible for the advice Mr A had given as it had not authorised 
him to advise on PSFM SIPPs or the Dunas Beach investment.
The Ombudsman in that case did not just accept Openworks assertion.  He considered the 
Openwork appointed representative agreement. He made his decision in 2020 after both the 
TenetConect case and the Anderson v Sense case both of which he took into account. The 
Ombudsman decided Openwork was not for any part of the advice Mr H had received from 
Mr A.
As no part of what PSFM says was a single braided stream of advice was authorised by 
Openwork this means Openwork was not responsible for the advice.
I do not accept that I should consider that Openwork is responsible for Mr As acts and 
omissions in relation to the advice to sell Mr Hs existing pension or that Openwork 
authorised the advice Mr A gave to Mr H in this case.    In my provisional decision I said:
If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that Mr A was not 
authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept any 
business from Mr A.
PSFMs argument does not answer this point.  Openwork had an approved SIPP provider on 
its list.  If PSFM had checked with Openwork it would have found out that Openwork did not 
authorise Mr A to advise on PSFMs SIPP because it was not its listed SIPP provider.  That 
should have been enough for PSFM to refuse to enter into an Introducer Agreement with 
Mr A or otherwise accept business form him.  I cannot see that PSFM would have carried on 
in the belief that Openwork was wrong about the authority it gives its appointed 
representatives and think that in some limited circumstances the appointed representative 
would be authorised and that it would therefore do business with Mr A despite what 
Openwork would have said.
PSFM has not said it made enquiries about which personal pensions Mr A could advise 
upon.  And it made no attempt to limit Mr As Introducer Agreement only to cases where 
Mr A was advising on switching from pensions on Openworks approved list of pension 
providers. Nor has PSFM said that it checked SIPP applications introduced by Mr A to 
ensure that the applicant was switching away from a pension with a provider on Openworks 
approved list. 
Accordingly if in a particular case Mr A was advising on switching away from a pension from 
a provider on Openworks list of approved providers, this was by chance and not through 
planning on PSFMs part.  This is not a sound basis upon which to have entered into an 
Introducer Agreement with Mr A.
Also doing business with Mr A without first checking with Openwork exposed clients such as 
Mr H to the risk, which PSFM has referred to as entirely predictable, that Openwork would 
refuse to accept responsibility for the advice given by Mr A.  This means the client was 
exposed to the risk of receiving advice in breach of the general prohibition which was not 
subject to the usual supervision a regulated adviser is subject to and thus at greater risk of 
advice that was not in the clients best interest and in relation to which the usual regulatory 
safeguards of access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would not be available.  In short, the risks of consumer detriment from 
dealing with an adviser who was not authorised to give the advice he was giving were 
considerable.
So it remains my view that PSFM should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with 
Mr A or otherwise accepted business introduced by him.
Reasonable checks in the circumstances 
PSFM says there is nothing in the extract of the FCA publications referred to in the 
provisional decision and above that would require investigation of an appointed 
representatives principal beyond checking the register as PSFM did.  I do not agree with this 
point.  It is important to think about the principles involved rather than get caught up on the 
precise wording of the examples of best practice the regulator gave.  The point is about 
safeguarding customers interests by checking that those introducers who give advice are 
authorised.  Checks should be appropriate to the circumstances.  In the case of an 
appointed representative of a principal with a restricted product range business model PSFM 
should have made checks appropriate to those circumstances.  Just checking the register 
was not enough to find out if Mr A was authorised to advise in relation to PSFMs SIPPs.  And not making enough checks meant there a was a real risk that the introducer would be 
giving advice he was not authorised to give.
It remains my view that PSFM was mistaken in thinking that Mr A met the criteria it applied 
when considering potential introducers.  It was wrong to treat him as an authorised person 
who was authorised and regulated by the regulator and had the appropriate permissions to 
give the advice he gave.  His authority to give pensions and investment advice came from 
Openwork and that authority was limited meaning he did not have authority or permission to 
give the advice he gave.
It remains my view that If PSFM had checked with Openwork, it would have discovered that 
Mr A was not authorised to do business with it. And in turn it would have refused to accept 
any business from Mr A. 
It remains my view that PSFM should not have entered into an Introducer Agreement with 
Mr A or otherwise accepted business introduced from him.  This means it should not have 
accepted Mr Hs application for a PSFM SIPP, his application to switch his existing pension 
to it and his application to invest in the Dundas Beach resort investment.
Is it fair and reasonable to hold PSFM responsible for Mr Hs losses?
PSFM says Mr As advice, and therefore Openwork and/or his employer, are responsible for 
Mr Hs loss not PSFMs act of accepting the business he introduced to it.  
PSFM says Mr As acts are an intervening act which breaks any chain of causation linking it 
to the loss suffered.  However, PSFM was not only in error in entering into the Introducer 
Agreement with Mr A sometime before it accepted Mr Hs application.  PSFM was in error 
when it accepted Mr Hs application as introduced by Mr A  and that error postdates Mr As 
advice.  It cannot therefore be an intervening act.  I do not accept that it is fair and 
reasonable to say that PSFM is not responsible for Mr Hs loss for this reason.
I have however still considered whether it is fair and reasonable to hold PSFM responsible if 
Mr A was the initial cause of the problem that led to Mr Hs loss.
I cannot look at any complaint against Mr A personally or his employer.  And I have 
explained the Financial Ombudsman Service was also unable to consider a complaint 
against Openwork either.  In this decision I have looked at PSFMs separate role and 
responsibilities and I have found that it failed to meet those responsibilities.  So I need to 
consider what Mr H would have done if that had not happened.  
Mr A might have tried to introduce Mr Hs business to another SIPP provider but any other 
SIPP provider ought reasonably to have refused that business for the same reasons as 
PSFM.  It is not fair and reasonable to say that PSFM should not be found responsible 
because another SIPP operator might also have failed to make appropriate checks on Mr A.  
If Mr H had become aware that PSFM (or other SIPP operators) would not accept his 
application from Mr A it would have given him cause to question the advice he was given.  
And I think it is more likely than not that he would not have gone ahead with Mr As advice in 
the form it was in.  
If Mr A could not introduce SIPP business that involved Dunas Beach Investments in this 
case, given the timing of events and Mr As suspension by Openwork, it seems more likely 
than not that he would have told Mr A he could no longer help him and that he should 
consult an authorised IFA.  I do not consider it likely that Mr H would have been advised to move his pension to 
Openworks authorised SIPP to make the same Dundas Beach resort investment by 
Mr A (or one of his colleagues) acting on behalf of Openwork. It was not an Openwork 
authorised investment. Nor do I consider that any other regulated financial adviser acting 
reasonably would have advised Mr H that investing his pension in the Dunas Beach 
Resort investment was suitable for him. It is a higher risk, esoteric investment that is 
unsuitable for a pension investment for most retail investors.
It is my view that in the light of what PSFM knew, or ought to have known, about 
Mr A and his principal Openwork before it received Mr Hs application, it didnt comply 
with good industry practice, act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control 
its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr H fairly by accepting his application. And I think that, 
in not doing so, it allowed him to be put at significant risk of detriment.  It did not act in 
its customers best interest as required in its role as an execution only SIPP 
provider.
Im not saying  that PSFM  should  have  assessed  the suitability  of the investment  
or the SIPP  for Mr H. I accept  that PSFM  had no obligation  to give advice  to 
Mr H, or otherwise  ensure  the suitability  of a pension  product  or investment  for 
him. My finding  is not that PSFM  should  have  concluded  that the investment  or 
SIPP  was not suitable  for Mr H. Rather  it is that PSFM  did not meet  its regulatory  
obligations,  or treat Mr H fairly,  by accepting  his application  for a SIPP  introduced  
by Mr A.
In the circumstances, it is my view that Mr H would not have suffered the same loss if PSFM 
had refused to accept his application and that it is fair and reasonable to hold PSFM 
responsible for the losses Mr H has suffered
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if things had not gone wrong and Mr H had not invested in the 
Dunas Beach investment. However it does seem that Mr H is likely to have transferred 
his pension because he wanted to consolidate his pensions and take the available tax-
free cash from his pension in order to buy a car.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must PSFM do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, PSFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.  
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
PSFM should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, PSFM should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If PSFM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr H £500 for distress and inconvenience for the total loss of the investment and 
the considerable impact this has had on Mr H's pension and financial position. It has 
caused him considerable worry and stress especially as he might have started to 
take an income from his pension by now given his difficult financial position.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PSFM deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. PSFM should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
SIPP
investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
The Resort Still exists For half the Date of Date of my 8% simple per
Group but illiquid investment: investment final year from final
Dunas FTSE UK decision decision to
Beach Private settlement (if
Resort Investors not settled
investment Income Total within 28 days
Return Index; of the
for the other business
half: average receiving the
rate from fixed complainant's
rate bonds acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where 
an asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case.
PSFM should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value. The amount PSFM pays should be included in the actual value before compensation is 
calculated.
If PSFM is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. PSFM may require that Mr H provides an undertaking 
to pay PSFM any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan.
PSFM will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced 
a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, PSFM 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr H paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal made by Mr H from the SIPP, such as the tax free cash payment, should 
be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if PSFM totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of 
deducting periodically.
If the SIPP needs to be kept open only as a result of the Dunas Beach investment and 
used only or substantially to hold that asset, then any future SIPP fees should be 
waived until the SIPP can be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
It is likely Mr H wanted to achieve some income with some growth with a small risk to 
his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr H into that position. It does not mean that Mr H would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr H could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint against PSFM SIPP Limited.  My decision is that PSFM 
SIPP Limited should pay Mr H the compensation calculated as set out above and the 
additional interest as appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman