DRN-2370976
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under her 
home emergency policy.
 
What happened
British Gas carried out an annual service on Miss Ss boiler as part of her HomeCare policy. 
During the visit, Miss S explained that some of her radiators werent heating up. The 
engineer investigated and said he thought a powerflush might be needed. British Gas then 
sent another engineer who tested the system and said that a powerflush was needed due to 
a blockage in the heating pipes.
British Gas provided a quote for the powerflush, but Miss S decided to use a different 
company, as its quote was cheaper. When that company started the powerflush, it found that 
it wasnt having any effect. So the engineer asked if anything had changed in Miss Ss home. 
Miss S said that a new washing machine had been fitted and that the company that fitted it 
had problems with plumbing it into the water supply, but had managed to do so. So, the 
engineer checked where the new washing machine had been plumbed in and found two 
valves that had been switched off. When they were switched back on, the radiators heated 
up properly. However, as the powerflush had already been started, Miss S still needed to 
pay for it.
When Miss S complained to British Gas, it accepted that the powerflush had been 
unnecessary, but said that it wouldnt refund the cost of the powerflush as the other 
company found the cause of the issue but did the powerflush anyway. However, it offered 
Miss S £40 in compensation.
So, Miss S complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it was 
reasonable for the Miss S to have relied on the view of two British Gas engineers. She said 
British Gas should pay £300 towards the cost of the powerflush, rather than the full amount, 
as Miss S had gained some benefit from it, and £100 compensation.
As British Gas did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When British Gas replied to Miss Ss complaint it said that based on the documents she had 
provided, this showed that the other company fixed the issue with the valves and then did 
the powerflush when it wasnt required. Ive looked at the documents that Miss S sent to 
British Gas. This included an invoice for the work. This explained that the purpose of the visit 
was to powerflush the system, that they had opened two valves, which had dealt with the 
heating issue, and completed the powerflush. Unlike, British Gas, I dont think the invoice 
shows that the valves were dealt with before the powerflush started. I havent seen anything 
that shows the invoice was a sequential account of everything that took place during the 
visit. The invoice was describing the services provided.
Miss S said that the company started the powerflush, realised it wasnt making a difference, 
so it investigated further and found the issue with the valves. The company then completed 
the powerflush, as it had already started it. In my view, that is credible and consistent with 
what the invoice said.
I also think that it was reasonable for Miss S to act on the advice given during two British 
Gas visits that she required a powerflush. Having acted on that advice, Miss S paid for a 
powerflush that British Gas accepts was unnecessary.
In response to our investigators view of the case, British Gas said that Miss S had 
previously been advised to get a magnabooster, which she had declined. It said that this was 
also a reason why the diagnosis was pointing towards a powerflush. I can see in British Gas 
records that Miss S was previously given this advice. Nonetheless, British Gas accepts that 
a powerflush wasnt necessary and that the issue was with the valves. A previous 
recommendation for a magnabooster doesnt change that. However, it does make me think 
that Miss S was likely to have gained some benefit from the powerflush.
British Gas also said if we had carried out the works we would have found the issue and not 
charged for the powerflush as it would not have needed to be done. The visit would also 
have been chargeable to the customer due to the third party interference. British Gas 
comments are about a hypothetical situation. In reality, it cant say with certainty when or 
how it would have identified the underlying issue or whether it would have been reasonable 
to charge for the visit.
  
Putting things right
I require British Gas to contribute towards the cost of the powerflush. I dont think British Gas 
needs to pay the full amount because I think Miss S is likely to have gained some benefit 
from the powerflush. British Gas must also pay interest on that amount from the date that 
Miss S paid for the work, as she lost the use of that money. It should also pay additional 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by what happened.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay £300 towards the cost of the powerflush
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date that Miss S paid the invoice to the 
date that British Gas Insurance Limited pays the money.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman