DRN-2395169
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill) unfairly recorded him as 
being at fault for a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr Ws car collided with a dog while he was driving and his vehicle 
sustained damage. Mr W held an insurance policy with Churchill, so he reported the incident 
and raised a claim. 
From the onset, Churchill told Mr W that the claim may be classed as his fault if it was 
unable to recover the costs incurred. Once Mr Ws car was repaired by a garage, Churchill 
began to pursue the corresponding outlay by contacting the dogs owner. However, after 
multiple attempts, this third-party did not respond. 
Because no recovery was made, the claim was classed as being Mr Ws fault. He found this 
unfair and raised a complaint, citing that he was not to blame for the dog being in the line of 
traffic. Therefore, he believes that its owner should have to pay the costs for their negligence 
in allowing this to happen.
Churchill responded to the complaint and maintained that it had acted fairly, pointing to the 
terms of the policy which permitted it to record claims in this way. Mr W remained unhappy, 
so he brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. 
Having considered what happened, our investigator didnt think that Churchill had acted 
unfairly, because it had paid out for the repairs to the vehicle and hadnt been able
to get this money back. She was also satisfied that Churchill made this clear to Mr W when 
he first reported the claim. Churchill agreed with this opinion. 
Mr W does not agree. He submits that Churchill did not do enough to pursue the third-party 
and believes this individual clearly behaved negligently by failing to keep their dog under 
control by the roadside. As a result, Mr W insists that Churchill ought to pursue legal 
proceedings in order to recover these costs  and in any event he should not be held at fault. 
Because Mr W is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in question that Churchill has paid out for the cost of repairs to Mr Ws car. The 
dispute here lies in Mr Ws appeal that Churchill should absorb this expense and not hold 
him responsible for the claim liability; on the basis that it was the insurers decision not to 
further pursue the third-party dog owner. He therefore contests that the fault for the accident 
should not be placed on him regardless. 
According to the terms and conditions of cover, Churchill was entitled to Take over and 
carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in [Mr Ws] name, or in the 
name of any other person covered by this policy. In other words, the policy essentially gave 
Churchill the contractual right to settle this claim how it saw fit  and it didnt require the 
agreement or consent of Mr W as the policyholder. 
Even so, an insurer must handle claims fairly. It cannot just simply make a decision without 
first assessing the material facts and evidence. Accordingly, Ive considered how and why 
Churchill reached the outcome it came to on this claim. 
As a starting point, Churchill has not stated that the accident was Mr Ws fault. It has not 
challenged his version of events or said that he was to blame for what happened. Rather, 
the claim has only been classed as a fault on his part, since Churchill has shelled out for 
repairs and has been unable to make a full recovery of these costs  which, I accept as fair 
practice when reporting this claim.
In order to recoup the cost of repairs, Churchill needed the third-party to comply with its 
request to cover the amount paid to reinstate Mr Ws car. This was in light of the allegation 
that the dog owner was careless and should therefore agree to cooperate. The documentary 
evidence persuades me that Churchill attempted this contact on at least two occasions; that 
is, it sent multiple letters to the home address given at the scene of the incident. When the 
initial correspondence went unanswered, it rightly reiterated the request and explained why 
recovery was due. While, at the same time, Churchill asked the third-party if they had an 
insurance policy in place to cover liability. 
Ultimately, the third-party did not respond  so Churchill was limited in what it could take 
forward. Ordinarily, a road traffic accident would draw in at least one other insurer, whereby 
liability could be determined and mutually agreed. However, in this case, there was no other 
insurance company directly involved. Had there of been, its possible that Churchill wouldve 
been able to seek reimbursement on the legal grounds of an applicable contract of 
insurance. But unlike a collision with a vehicle thats registered as having cover  there was 
no record of a policy in place with an insurer that Churchill could engage with. 
Naturally, this posed somewhat of a restriction on whom Churchill could reach out to. An 
alternative method of successfully engaging with the third-party was not immediately 
apparent i.e. letters and phone call attempts were ineffective  and there did not seem 
another informal way of securing compliance from this individual. Of course, notwithstanding 
the presence of an insurance policy in place to cover the third-party, I also cannot ignore that 
there is no guarantee that the dog owner had the means to pay for the repair costs anyway.  
Keeping all of this in mind, its my judgment that Churchill made reasonable attempts to 
pursue the third-party. And in light of its contact going unanswered, I do not deem it unfair for 
it to have proceeded on the basis that an agreement would not be reached on the settlement 
of costs. 
Churchill decided not to implement legal proceedings against the third-party, as it concluded 
that there were no reasonable prospects of successfully proving negligence in court. Rather, 
in the circumstances, it believed there would be minimal chances of substantiating that the 
dogs owner failed to uphold due care. Mr W asserts otherwise  he states that the lack of 
recovery is actually due to Churchills unwillingness to proceed with formal or more rigorous 
action. And he sees this as reluctance to retrieve the claim outlay  the cost of which has 
now been passed on to him in the form of increased premiums. We know that the dog itself was not covered by an insurance policy. As a consequence, 
Churchill established that a legal dispute would need to be in opposition to the third-party 
themselves. Im not at liberty to comment about the prospects of pursuing the matter through 
legal proceedings, due to the informal nature of our service. Nevertheless, for me to 
conclude that Churchill acted unfairly, Id need to be persuaded that it failed to request key 
evidence and/or overlooked vital information when choosing not to embark on legal action. 
But, conversely, whats before me leads me to believe that the decision took account of the 
material facts. Amongst other things, its evident that Churchill relied on the statements taken 
at the scene, in conjunction with what it could reasonably fathom from the circumstances of 
the accident. Indeed, Mr W has not produced compelling evidence to convince me that there 
would have been a different outcome, had Churchill done a more exhaustive investigation. 
I am therefore satisfied that Churchill handled this claim in a fair and reasonable manner  
and I find it unwarranted to expect it to have carried out further enquiries, beyond what it 
already attempted.
Finally, even if Mr W had legal assistance included in the policy, this cover could only have 
been used to claim for his uninsured losses from the third-party, if he and his car were 
involved in a road traffic accident with a moving vehicle, where someone else was to blame. 
Consequently, because these conditions have not been met, I could not expect Churchill to 
help towards such costs. Instead, it has rightly advised Mr W that he can take legal action by 
contacting a solicitor or legal representative, separate to this policy. 
Given this and all of the circumstances, its my judgment that Churchill has acted fairly and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. It follows that I do not require it to do anything 
differently for the complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman