DRN-3041718
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly declined its 
application for a Bounce Back Loan  despite initially approving it.
Mr W is the companys director and brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
T applied to Metro for a Bounce Back Loan of £37,250 on 25 February 2021. The bank 
initially approved the application, and sent T a loan agreement which Mr W signed and 
returned.
However, on 9 March Metro contacted Mr W to say that it had reviewed the application again 
and wouldnt be providing the loan. It explained that to be eligible for the loan, T needed to 
have been active and trading before 1 March 2020  but the banks review showed that the 
company had been dissolved in 2016 and only restored in October 2020. 
Mr W complained, but Metro maintained its decision  so he referred the matter to us. He 
said T had been trading and that the banks decision had contravened legislation and the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Metro had done anything wrong. 
In summary, she said that it wouldnt have been possible for T to have been trading on 
1 March 2020, as required by the Loan Scheme rules, as it was still dissolved at this time  
and therefore didnt exist. So she didnt think Metros decision was unreasonable and while 
acknowledging Mr Ws disappointment  particularly after the initial approval of Ts 
application  she didnt think it should reinstate the loan.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said that restored companies were eligible 
under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules and maintained that T had been trading prior to 
1 March 2020. He also said that Metro had acted fraudulently in declaring the loan as having 
been paid when it hadnt  and said this had prevented T from obtaining a Bounce Back 
Loan elsewhere.
So with no resolution, Ts complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was open to most businesses, there were certain 
eligibility criteria that all applicants had to meet. This included the requirement that the 
applicant was carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
There is no dispute that T was dissolved in November 2016 and was only restored in 
October 2020. So it was dissolved on 1 March 2020. This means it didnt exist as a legal 
entity at that time and therefore cant have carried out any activity  including carrying on 
business. 
I know Mr W doesnt accept this interpretation and Ive taken into account what hes told us 
and considered the legislation that hes referred to. But ultimately, Metro was required to 
consider Ts application against the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules and eligibility criteria. 
And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think T met those criteria  so it follows that Metro 
rightly declined its application. 
This isnt simply because T was a dissolved (and restored) company. I accept Mr Ws point 
that restored companies could be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. Rather it is the timing of 
Ts dissolution  it was still dissolved on and around 1 March 2020, the period in which it 
needed to have been trading under the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria. 
On this basis, Metro decided that T didnt meet the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria and 
ultimately declined its application. I think this was reasonable. And although Metro had 
initially approved the loan, the terms and conditions allowed for its termination in certain 
circumstances. Given all Ive said above, I think this was appropriate in the circumstances 
here.
I understand Mr W is also concerned that Metro acted fraudulently by recording that it had 
provided a Bounce Back Loan to T when it hadnt  and that this record meant the company 
couldnt obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. Id expect Metro to have updated this record 
after its decision to decline Ts application to show that the loan hadnt actually been 
provided. But ultimately, I dont think it affected Ts position  as for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think it was eligible for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and so 
any further applications would also have been declined on the same basis anyway.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman