DRN-4386955
The complaint
Mr C complains that the data obtained by Vitality Corporate Service Limited for his 
telematics car insurance policy isnt correct. 
What happened
Mr C has a car insurance policy with an insurer, who Ill refer to as D. The policy is branded 
Vitality and the driving scores Mr C obtains affect which benefits he receives from Vitality. 
These include money back on what he paid for his insurance policy, money towards any 
excess he would need to pay if he claimed on his policy and also in some situations Vitality 
guarantees his premium wont increase the following year. 
Mr C said hed received a few niggles with alerts from the system, he said hed been 
penalised for either harsh braking, harsh accelerating and speeding. After receiving one of 
these alerts in January 2023 Mr C decided to complain as he didnt agree with what the alert 
said hed done. Specifically, hed been flagged as speeding, but Mr C said hed been driving 
along with the cruise control set on his car. 
Vitality reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said there was no records of any 
issues or errors with the data and didnt agree Mr C had received the alerts incorrectly. 
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Mr C brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and asked Vitality for the telematics data behind the 
alerts. She found that the telematics data for Mr Cs driving didnt show any errors and 
supported the alerts he had received. She therefore didnt think Vitality had done anything 
wrong and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt been speeding at the time the telematics data said he 
had been. He said because of this hed lost out on up to 25% of his premium being paid 
back to him. Mr C also pointed out that since hed complained Vitality had updated the app 
so the alert no longer showed the speed and D had refused to renew his insurance. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Cs policy say Vitality will provide certain benefits depending on the driving 
score he gets. The driving score is dependent on telematics data obtained from Mr Cs car. If 
a negative score is produced he receives an alert to let him know about it. Mr C has disputed 
some of the driving scores obtained, particularly speeding ones. 
Ive therefore reviewed the telematics data from Vitality to determine whether its acted fairly 
and reasonably when saying Mr Cs driving has caused the alerts. In doing so Im satisfied it 
has. I say this because while I understand Mr C disputes the data, Ive not seen anything 
apart from Mr Cs testimony, to show it is inaccurate or contains errors. Ill explain further. 
Vitality has provided a range of data, not just the ones which resulted in the alerts. When 
reviewing this I can see a variety of different data points where most of the results recorded 
dont result in a negative score for Mr C. And while I appreciate he feels the alerts he 
received are errors with the system, there doesnt seem to be anything other than his 
testimony to support this. The data appears consistent with the other scores recorded for his 
driving and Im unable to see any obvious errors in what was recorded. So, while I 
understand Mr Cs frustration with the negative scores, Im not persuaded Vitality has done 
anything wrong. 
Ive also noted Mr C said the app has now updated and no longer shows the speed when 
giving an alert. Hes also raised concerns with Vitality saying it wouldnt be able to renew his 
policy. While Ive noted Mr Cs comments in relation to both of these points, theyve not 
persuaded me Vitality has done anything wrong. I say this because Vitality gave an 
explanation previously about the speed showing on these alerts being linked to harsh 
accelerating or braking. And while its made the decision to remove the information from the 
alert, it doesnt mean the data obtained on Mr Cs driving isnt accurate. 
Also, in regard to D no longer wishing to renew Mr Cs policy, as this wasnt part of this 
complaint, I wouldnt be able to consider it here. It also appears this is an underwriting 
decision and therefore one Mr C would need to raise with D rather than Vitality.    
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman