DRN-3689220
The complaint
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc in 2020. He says it provided 
poor service to him, held him at fault for an accident and didnt act in his best interests.  
What happened
In November 2020, Mr T was driving on a dual carriageway that reduced to a single lane 
ahead. He says a lorry driver to his left wouldnt allow him to merge. Mr T says he was 
forced to stop as he reached the point where the new single lane met oncoming traffic on the 
other side of the road. He says the lorry then moved sideways towards his car, damaging the 
passenger door and the side mirror. Mr T says as there was space on the lorrys left-hand 
side, the lorry driver could have avoided the collision. 
In December 2020 AXA reported the accident to the other insurer and said it held the lorry 
driver at fault. After looking at the evidence provided by Mr T, the other insurer said it 
thought Mr T was at fault. AXAs liability team then reviewed all the information it had. It told 
Mr T on 9 March 2022 that it wouldnt be able to dispute liability, as Mr T was trying to merge 
into the lorry drivers lane, and it was for him to ensure the way was clear. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ts complaint. She thought AXA had acted reasonably. 
In her opinion, it had considered the evidence before deciding to accept liability. Mr T said 
the reports hed provided to the police and to AXA had been ignored. He also said the 
damage to the cars side mirror showed the lorry hit it from behind - whilst his car was 
stationary - and that the investigator and AXA had failed to take that into account. 
 
Mr T said hed driven alongside the lorry for a while and saw markings on the road ahead 
that showed he should merge with the traffic to his left. But he said both drivers had an equal 
duty to merge safely  and the lorry driver prevented him from doing that, forced him to 
encroach on the side of the road with oncoming traffic, and then caused the collision. Mr T 
also said he hadnt made a claim on the policy, so AXA had no right to act as though he had. 
 
The investigator said AXA thought it couldnt argue about liability without proof that Mr Ts 
car was stationary. She said if the lorry driver was refusing to allow Mr Ts car to merge, he 
should have given way. Mr T said he couldnt give way in the circumstances on the day and 
that it was for AXA to prove that his car was still moving when hit by the lorry. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made numerous comments about the circumstances of the accident and about 
AXAs behaviour, but Ill focus on the issues that I think are central to his complaint. His 
concerns about not making a claim on the policy are being dealt with as a separate 
complaint. And although Mr T has disputed several of the observations made by the 
investigator, I wont address them, as my role is to review the complaint afresh and to give 
him my opinion about whether AXA acted reasonably. 
Liability dispute
 
Mr T accepts that it isnt our role to decide which party is responsible for an accident. Hes 
aware that if he wants a finding on that, hell have to go to court. We look at whether a 
liability decision taken by an insurer seems to have been fair and reasonable. That usually 
depends on whether the insurer has investigated the claim and has reached a fair 
conclusion, having considered the available evidence. 
The only evidence in this case is that provided by Mr T, as the lorry driver didnt comment. 
Mr T gave AXA a full description of what happened, plus a clear image of the vehicles just 
after the accident occurred. He also took images of the road from other locations. 
As the investigator pointed out, the policy gives AXA the right to decide how to deal with any 
claim. Mr T thinks its significant that AXA told the other insurer it held the lorry driver at fault 
for the accident, then changed its mind when the other insurer explained why it didnt agree. 
But that isnt uncommon. Insurers have a duty to review the stance taken by other insurers 
and consider whether a dispute about liability can be handled successfully. So I think it was 
reasonable enough for AXA to look again at the evidence and for it then to change its mind. 
AXA said it based its liability decision on the fact that Mr T was trying to merge into traffic, so 
the onus was on him to ensure the way was clear. It also said the evidence showed the lorry 
was correctly established in the part of the road he was trying to enter. I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion to reach. Ive looked at the image of the accident, plus the other 
images Mr T supplied, and Ive also looked at satellite images of the location. They show 
that traffic in the left-hand lane of the dual carriageway continues straight ahead, into where 
the road narrows to a single lane. But traffic in the other lane of the dual carriageway has to 
merge to its left once the road starts to narrow. The narrowing starts well before the single 
lane road meets oncoming traffic, so theres ample time for merging. 
I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that the lorry was established in the correct place. 
Traffic isnt required to drive in the gutter - and once the road had fully narrowed, it wasnt 
wide enough for two vehicles anyway. I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that (as Mr Ts 
lane had disappeared) the onus was on him to merge safely into the traffic to his left. The 
image of the accident shows his car in a precarious position, partly over the white line in the 
centre of the road, facing oncoming traffic, with the front of his car well ahead of the front of 
the lorry. A note on AXAs file says it looks as though Mr T was continuing to try to merge 
into the lorrys space at the time. I think that observation was fair. 
 
Mr T says established drivers have an equal duty to allow other drivers to merge into their 
lane safely. But he supplied a quote to us that says a driver in a lane thats ending should 
yield to vehicles in the other lane. And he said the Highway Code rule is that drivers should 
merge only when its safe and appropriate to do so. I think these comments reflect the 
generally accepted position - which is that drivers who need to merge into established traffic 
have a duty to wait until a safe gap opens up. AXAs view is that theres a greater duty of 
care on merging drivers, which I think is reasonable. It didnt think Mr T could show hed 
done what was necessary in order to avoid the accident.
  
Mr T insists that AXA didnt consider the account he gave to it (in the accident report form 
and in the report he made to the police). Nor did it discuss the accident with him. But I think 
the evidence shows that it did consider what Mr T had said. I think AXA has shown that it based its decision on its view of his account and on the images he provided. And theres no 
obligation on an insurer to discuss an accident with a consumer before making a decision if 
its reasonable for it to think it already has all the information it needs.
Mr T places great emphasis on the fact that his mirror was forced backwards, from behind.  
He thinks that shows the lorry moved over and hit his car from behind - whilst it was 
stationary. In Mr Ts view that means the lorry driver was wholly to blame for the accident. 
He thought the repairing garage would support his case, but it made no comment on how the 
mirror was damaged. And I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr T couldnt show his 
car wasnt moving at the time of the accident. I dont agree with Mr T that its for AXA to 
show either that his car was moving - or to accept his assertion that it wasnt. 
In order to argue the case successfully in court, AXA would have to prove that Mr Ts car 
wasnt moving and that the lorry moved to its right, thereby causing the damage. AXA told 
Mr T he couldnt show that those assertions were correct. It didnt say so explicitly, but I think 
its clear that AXA didnt think the mirror damage was enough to show the lorry driver was at 
fault, given the all the other facts it had to take into account. I think that was also reasonable. 
Delays
There was a delay in progressing the claim from December 2020 until July 2021, which 
seems to have been due to the accident report form not having been received. Meanwhile, 
Mr Ts repairs were completed.  The other insurer disputed liability in October 2021. AXA 
told Mr T in March 2022 that it had reviewed all the information and had decided he was at 
fault for the accident. Compensation is often appropriate given such delays, but I havent 
seen anything to show that Mr T faced any detriment as a result of them.    
Mr Ts best interests
   
I dont think Mr T has shown that AXA didnt act in his best interests. It paid for the repairs to 
his car, which seem to have been completed in a reasonable time. It also paid him £75 
compensation for long call waiting times and for a delay in handling his complaint, which I 
think was reasonable. And it put his allegations to the other insurer. Naturally, Mr T is 
unhappy about the higher premiums resulting from the fault record against him. But the only 
way to avoid that would have been for the other insurer to accept full liability. AXA would 
have pursued that insurer for its outlay on repairs had it been a viable option, as it would 
have been in AXAs best interests as well as Mr Ts best interests. But it concluded 
(reasonably in my view) that it wasnt viable, so AXA had to absorb the loss. I dont think it 
could have done much more to assist Mr T in the circumstances here. 
Impact on Mr T 
Mr T says hes a very experienced and careful driver, which I have no reason to doubt. So I 
think the accident must have been a significant and very distressing event for him, especially 
as his wife was a passenger in the car at the time, and the impact was to her side of the car. 
Mr T strongly believes that his actions didnt contribute at all to the accident and that his 
analysis of liability is correct. He cant see why AXA disagrees, so I can understand why hes 
so frustrated with its decision to hold him at fault. But having looked at the basis on which 
AXA made the decision, I dont think it acted unreasonably towards Mr T, for the reasons set 
out above. 
 
I know Mr T will be very disappointed with my findings, but taking everything into account, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint.   My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman