DRN-2716351
The complaint
Mrs S complains Western Circle Limited (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Mrs S also says given the number of times she borrowed it shouldve been clear to Cashfloat 
that her debts were getting worse.
What happened
Mrs S took three loans from Cashfloat between January and July 2020. A table can be found 
below containing some of the information about the lending weve been provided with from 
Cashfloat. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest repayment
1 £400.00 06/01/2020 24/04/2020 4 £170.34
2 £500.00 16/05/2020 03/06/2020 3 £256.95
3 £500.00 19/07/2020 30/09/2020 3 £258.52
An adjudicator who assessed the complaint didnt think it was wrong to have granted the 
loans. She thought that the checks completed by Cashfloat were proportionate and from 
what she could see the loans appeared affordable. And the adjudicator didnt think it had yet 
reached the stage where the loans wouldve appeared unsustainable for Mrs S. 
Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess Mrs Ss application for borrowing to check if she could afford to pay 
back the amount shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which 
was proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mrs Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. 
But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include: 
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S.
At the time the loan was lent, Cashfloat was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable 
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender 
realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Loan 1 was due to be repaid over four months with a largest repayment of £170.30 and loan 
2 over three months with a largest repayment of £256.95. So Cashfloat needed to do 
proportionate checks to establish whether Mrs S would be in a position to repay these loans. 
At the time of application Mrs S declared she had an income of £2,300 per month for both 
loans. In terms of expenditure Mrs S declared her outgoings were £1,490 for loan 1 and 
£920 for loan 2. The income and expenditure used by Cashfloat in its lending decision was 
based on what it has told us was verified through third party data. But it did seem, based on 
what Mrs S declared, and what she was committed to repaying that shed be in a position to 
afford the repayments. 
Even though loan 2 was for a larger sum, there wasnt anything in the way that Mrs S repaid 
loan 1 which wouldve meant Cashfloat needed to carry out more detailed checks for loan 2. 
So, I think, it was fair, given the circumstances for Cashfloat to have relied on the information 
that Mrs S had provided. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S was struggling financially and repaying this loan has proved
difficult. And I accept that her full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
either the information she provided, or the other information Cashfloat obtained. But at this 
early stage of the lending relationship, I dont think Cashfloat checks needed to go further 
then they did. 
Looking at all this together, I dont think that Cashfloat was wrong to lend. I think its checks 
were proportionate and suggested these loans would be affordable and sustainable. Im not 
upholding Mrs Ss complaint about these loans.     Loans 3
When Mrs S applied for this loan Cashfloat once again asked her for income which she 
declared to be £2,300 per month and she declared her outgoings were £850. This would 
have left her with £1,450 per month in which to make her largest contractual repayment of 
£258.52. So, it was reasonable of Cashfloat to have believed that Mrs S would be in the 
position to afford the repayments she was expecting to make. 
However, for this loan Cashfloat was also provided with a copy of Mrs Ss bank statements. 
It looks like it was given a whole monthly statement running from 13 June to 10 July 2020. 
These bank statements confirmed that Mrs Ss income was in line with what she had 
declared. 
Ive also looked at the statement to see whether there were any indicators that may have 
alerted Cashfloat of difficulties, but I dont think it does. I accept that at times Mrs S was 
overdrawn but that on its own wouldnt in my view be enough to uphold the complaint, 
considering she wasnt overdrawn for the whole month. 
There is also no other information such as lots of other short term or high cost credit 
borrowing that may have indicated to Cashfloat that Mrs S was stuck in a cycle of borrowing. 
I think the bank statements reinforced Cashfloats view that Mrs S wouldve been able to 
afford the repayments for this loan. 
There also isnt anything in the pattern of lending that I can see, that in my view ought to 
have alerted Cashfloat that Mrs S couldnt pay these loans in a sustainable manner. 
So overall, for this loan I think the checks that Cashfloat did were proportionate and these 
checks showed it that Mrs S would be able to afford the loan repayments she was committed 
to making. Which leads me to conclude that it wasnt wrong of Cashfloat to have provided 
this loan. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint about her loans. I appreciate this
will be disappointing for Mrs S. But I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings
that I have.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman