DRN-3379871
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt refund payments from his
account he disputes and also has provided poor service.
What happened
Mr M contacted NatWest to say he had lost his bank card and to dispute three cash
withdrawals for £250 each with a £0.99 fee. These took place on 20, 21 and 22 September
2020 and Mr M says he was in hospital then. He is unhappy with the way that NatWest dealt
with his dispute. He also raised issues about the service provided to him about previous
issues.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The withdrawals were made using the
genuine card and the chip was read and the correct PIN entered. Mr M said he had lost his
card but there was no identified way in which his PIN could have been discovered. He hadnt
provided evidence of his time in hospital or reported this to police as it had asked when he
appealed its decision. It decided to close his account. It accepted that there had been
service issues. Mr M hadnt been sent a new PIN as he requested when his card was
cancelled. He hadnt been sent a letter about a previous disputed withdrawal. And the
service he received from a member of staff hadnt been of the standard expected when he
called to appeal the outcome. So, NatWest had paid £100 compensation to his bank
account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that NatWest do anything more. He couldnt see how
anyone could have found out the PIN required for the disputed payments. Mr M had told
NatWest that he hadnt written his PIN down or given it to anyone. And so even if Mr M had
provided evidence of being in hospital this wouldnt have explained how the PIN was
discovered by an unknown third party. He thought that the payment for poor service was
reasonable. NatWest had decided to close Mr Ms account.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think his complaint had been looked at impartially. And he said
that he had money in his account that hadnt been returned when it was closed. He said he
would provide a bank statement to show this.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 31 January 2022. I set out below what I said.
the scope of the complaint
I gave some context for this complaint. Mr M initially disputed a withdrawal of £250 on 17 
August 2020. He said that his card got stuck in the machine at the cash point for a different 
business. And that it was returned to him by staff, but he didnt receive the money. He 
raised this with NatWest. It said that the business involved agreed to return the money and 
it was credited back to Mr Ms account on 19 August 2020. Mr M thinks that this isnt all of 
the money and says he was debited with £500 on 17 August 2020. I understood hes been 
sent a copy of his statement and I noted that there was a further unrelated cash withdrawal 
on 17 August 2020 at a different financial business. I was unclear about the other 
withdrawal save that NatWest says that it raised this with the cash machine owner and the 
refund was declined. It accepts it didnt tell Mr M about that and that this was a service 
issue. It hasnt considered any further appeal or complaint about the outcome itself and   
Mr M would need to raise that with it before we could look into it further.
There are then the disputed withdrawals on 20 to 22 September 2020 which Id come to. 
Having reviewed these NatWest decided to close Mr Ms account. It says it gave him 14 
days notice on 2 October 2020 and that his account was restricted from 2 October 2020. It 
also says that it attached a form to the closure notice saying that Mr M would need to go to 
a branch to arrange for any remaining funds in the account to be returned to him. The 
statement instead shows that the account wasnt closed until 2 December 2020. There are 
credits which largely seem to be refunds until 1 December 2020. On the day of closure, 
the money was transferred out and our investigator had the impression that this meant that 
it was sent to Mr M. By then the balance was £1,067.42 and included the £100 of 
compensation paid to Mr M.
Through our investigator I asked NatWest to explain what had happened to the money as 
Mr M emphatically said he hadnt received it. When it responded it said it was continuing 
to look into that but wasnt able to show me that it had other than been sent to an internal 
suspense account. Mr M has also told this service that he did go to a branch to try and 
obtain money but was told that his account was blocked, and he would need to contact 
the fraud team. He says he wasnt successful there either. And he wants this service to 
resolve things. While technically this is a further complaint point I didnt see any merit in 
dealing with this separately. It is integral to the closure of the account and the dispute 
over the refunds and Mr M being able to have access to his money. And I had already 
asked NatWest for some assistance on this point. So, I said I would be setting out my 
views on that in this provisional decision which will allow NatWest and Mr M to comment.
the September disputed payments
I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if payments werent 
authorised Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I would be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for 
these payments?
- Did Mr M either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to 
use the card?
NatWest has provided copies of the audit logs for the payments made using Mr Ms cards 
at the relevant time. These show that the withdrawals between 20 and 22 September 2020 
were made using chip and PIN with a card ending with number 422. I was satisfied that 
these were authenticated. The logs also show that Mr M hadnt needed to enter his PIN for 
the genuine payments that had preceded them on 18 September 2020. The last time I 
could see the PIN being used for genuine payments with this card was on 3 September 
2020. I also noted from his statement that there was another card on the account ending in 
numbers 978 and being used at the same time as this card and largely it seems for 
relatively small payments without the PIN.The issue I needed to decide on is whether he consented to the disputed withdrawals and 
authorised them. I could see it is possible that someone could have taken his card ending 
422 especially if as he says it was left unattended while he was receiving hospital 
treatment.
Although he says he took other documents with him to hospital, he says he didnt write his 
PIN down or give it to anyone. And he cant think of anyone else that could have made 
these withdrawals. I was unclear where his other card ending 578 was other than in his 
possession and this continued to be used until the account was blocked on 2 October 
2020.
I appreciated NatWest asked him for evidence of his time in hospital but even if that had 
been available it wouldnt resolve how an unknown third party could have found out his PIN.
NatWest says the daily withdrawal limit on his card was £500 and that the maximum wasnt 
taken. It also says that there were no further attempts at cash withdrawals after Mr M had 
reported his card stolen on 22 September 2020. Having looked at the evidence I didnt think 
thats quite right. Withdrawals of £250 (plus fees) were made on 20, 21 and 22 September 
2020. There were withdrawals declined on 20 and 21 September 2020 for further amounts 
of £250 because the withdrawal limited had been exceeded. Notably one of these was an 
attempted withdrawal at 23:47 on 21 September 2020. A successful withdrawal was 
possible at 00:12 the next day it seems when the daily limit had reset. So, I did think that the 
withdrawals were consistent with as much money being taken out of the account as quickly 
as possible. Having said that it is right that no further attempts to use the card were made 
after Mr M had reported it lost.
Mr M was reasonably required to keep his PIN safe. And he hasnt given any explanation 
of how an unknown third party was able to discover that PIN. I couldnt also for example 
see the possibility of someone seeing the PIN over his shoulder when he used it and 
taking his card. Because the disputed withdrawals didnt follow quickly after that. While the 
pattern of withdrawals is a concern again it comes down to how these most likely could be 
made without his consent. And I wasnt persuaded that the cash withdrawals werent 
authorised. I said additionally that if I hadnt reached this view I would have otherwise likely 
have decided he hadnt kept his card and PIN safe. And hed have reasonably been 
responsible for the consequences of that too.
the service issues
Mr M has raised a number of service issues. Ive listened to recordings of calls he had 
with members of NatWest staff. He was unhappy with the one when he tried to make an 
appeal and I agreed with NatWest that the service it provided wasnt as good as it could 
have been, and which ended with that call being terminated.
As I said above NatWest also accepts that it didnt give him the outcome of a dispute about 
a cash withdrawal made on 17 August 2020.
the account closure
Given the way in which Mr M operated his account and the outcome of the fraud claims 
NatWest made a commercial decision to close it. I thought it was entitled to do so under 
the terms and conditions.I wasnt satisfied that NatWest did enough to help Mr M in getting the remaining funds 
from his account. It hasnt persuaded me that they have been returned. While it says it 
sent a closure notice to Mr M with a form to complete it has only provided a template letter 
saying the account would be closed in 14 days when it was in fact closed after two 
months.
I found Mr Ms testimony about going to a branch to try and obtain funds and not being 
helped convincing. I couldnt see why he would otherwise not try and do this. And he 
would in any event have needed to provide identification to a branch to receive this 
money. I was struggling to understand why he wouldnt otherwise have received this 
money. Theres been no suggestion that the money was other than genuinely his. And it 
clearly included his compensation.
He has additionally explained his difficult personal circumstances and the need to borrow 
money from friends and family during this time.
So, I said I intended to direct that NatWest pays him the outstanding amount if he supplies 
his current bank details. I also thought he has been caused needless distress and 
inconvenience by being deprived of this money and I intended to award a further £250 in 
compensation to reflect this. I thought that this in combination with the £100 he has already 
received for the poor service is reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr M made a number of further points. He said he wanted to know the location of the 
transactions and the time. This would help to pinpoint whether it was him and so who made 
the withdrawals. NatWest didnt tell him this so he couldnt go to the police with the relevant 
details. He is unhappy he wasnt refunded for the earlier withdrawals and thought that there 
were four payments.
Mr M said he took into account what Id said in the provisional decision but didnt think that 
this was reasonable given what hed been through. He wasnt told his account would close 
and he would lose access to online banking.
I have considered those points carefully. Ive also listened again to the recordings of calls  
Mr M had with NatWest. He was told that he could report the matter to police as this would 
enable CCTV to be obtained provided this happened in a month. I didnt hear him ask for the 
specific locations of any of the withdrawals. I dont see why NatWest wouldnt have given 
this either to him or to the police in any investigation. 
A key issue Ive referred to is how his PIN could have been discovered. CCTV might have 
helped him identify someone known to him if they were using his card. There will be no 
CCTV now. And the location of those withdrawals doesnt now assist in determining how a 
person would have been able to discover his PIN. I still dont see a basis to find that these 
withdrawals werent authorised by him.
NatWest says it wrote to Mr M to say his account would be closed and that would involve the 
loss of any access. I cant now resolve why he says he didnt receive any notice at the time. 
But as Ive said I was satisfied he then pursued the withdrawal of the remaining funds in a 
branch knowing he couldnt use that account.I set out above what I said in my provisional decision about the position regarding the 
withdrawals in August 2017. I note what Mr M says but dont have anything else to add to my 
reasoning about this.
I took into account what Mr M had put forward about his personal circumstances in my 
provisional decision and that I was dealing with him not being able to receive the balance in 
his account. Hes not persuaded me based on what hes now said to alter the amount of 
compensation as I still consider this to be reasonable. I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
1) Pay Mr M the residual amount now due to him after the closure of the account.
2) Pay Mr M a further £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman