DRN-1988167
The complaint
Mr R and Mr W are unhappy about the settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has 
offered them for a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mr W took out an annual travel insurance policy in June 2019. They booked a trip 
in September 2019 and were due to travel in October 2019. Unfortunately, Mr Rs father 
sadly passed away due to pneumonia and Mr R and Mr W had to cancel their trip. They 
made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Admiral investigated Mr R and Mr Ws claim. It noted that the GP had recorded on the 
medical certificate Mr R and Mr W had provided that Mr Rs father had first seen a GP about 
his condition in June 2019. This was around three months before Mr R and Mr W booked 
their trip. So Admiral turned down their claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims 
caused by the pre-existing medical conditions of close relatives.
Mr R and Mr W werent happy with Admirals decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Initially, our investigator thought itd been fair for Admiral to turn down Mr R and Mr Ws 
claim. She felt the available medical evidence suggested that Mr Rs fathers condition had 
been ongoing since June 2019. 
Mr R and Mr W subsequently provided a further letter from Mr Rs fathers GP which stated 
that he hadnt previously suffered from aspiration pneumonia until he became unwell in 
October 2019. The investigator asked Admiral to consider this new evidence.
Admiral agreed to settle the claim, based on the new evidence. But it said it wasnt prepared 
to pay any interest on the settlement because itd been open to Mr R and Mr W to provide 
further information to support their claim and they hadnt done so. Our investigator thought 
Admirals offer was fair.
Mr R and Mr W disagreed. They felt that Admiral should add interest to the settlement. They 
said Mr Rs fathers next of kin had signed a form allowing Admiral to contact the GP if it 
needed to do so. But Admiral hadnt got in touch with the GP, itd relied on them to provide 
every piece of information. The questions provided on the medical certificate were unclear 
and confusing.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Admirals offer of settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
When a policyholder makes a claim, its their responsibility to show their claim is valid and to 
provide evidence in support of their claim. So Ive thought carefully about the evidence Mr R 
and Mr W provided to Admiral and at what point it had enough information to decide the 
claim should be covered.
The policy terms include a medical declaration section, which sets out the cover for medical 
conditions under the policy. It includes the following term:
Medical conditions of other people your trip depends upon
We will not pay any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition of other people
your trip depends upon, such as a close relative, travel companion, close business
associate or person you have arranged to stay with, which they had at the start or
renewal of your policy or when you booked a trip (whichever is later).
When Mr R and Mr W first made their claim, they provided Admiral with a copy of a medical 
certificate whichd been filled-out by Mr Rs fathers GP. This form asked: What is the name 
of the condition which has given rise to this claim? The GP answered deceased -caused by 
aspiration pneumonia. In the same section, the forms asks: what date did the patient first 
consult a doctor about this condition? The GP answered June 2019. And when asked 
when Mr Rs fathers condition had deteriorated, she answered October 2019.
Based on this medical evidence, it did appear that Mr Rs fathers condition had existed 
when the trip was booked in September 2019 and had deteriorated around a month later. 
And I think the questions on the form were sufficiently clear. So I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to rely on the medical evidence it had available at that point to turn down the claim. 
Once Mr R and Mr W provided the additional evidence from Mr Rs fathers GP in June 2020 
which explained that he hadnt been suffering from aspiration pneumonia when they booked 
their trip, Admiral accepted the claim and agreed to settle it. I think this was the appropriate 
and fair response. But I dont think Admiral was in a position to accept the claim until it 
received this medical evidence.
I appreciate Mr R and Mr W feel Admiral shouldve been proactive in contacting the GP for 
more information. But I dont think it needed to. Thats because Im satisfied the medical 
evidence it already had suggested the claim wasnt covered. I dont think it needed to ask for 
anything more. It was open to Mr R and Mr W to approach the GP at the point the claim was 
turned down, or when they asked us to look into their complaint, to get further medical 
evidence to show their claim should be paid. And as Ive explained, its a policyholders 
responsibility to evidence that their claim is valid.
Because Im satisfied Admiral wasnt in a position to accept the claim until it received the 
new evidence, Im not telling it to pay any interest on the settlement. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Admirals offer of settlement is fair.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to settle Mr R and Mr Ws claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman