DRN-3214625
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Miss S were returning from abroad in January 2021. The final part of their journey 
was from a country Ill refer to as M to the UK  they were due to travel on 4 January 2021. 
On 1 January 2021 their flight from M to the UK was cancelled. The airline said that this was, 
following the public health emergency related to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr S and Miss S claimed for the cancelled flights and lost luggage. The luggage was later 
returned to them. URV declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover under the 
policy for the cancelled flight as there was no cover under the cancellation section for this. 
Unhappy, Mr S and Miss S complained to URV. URV apologised for some information 
provided to Mr S and Miss S during the sales call but maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. As they were still unhappy with URVs decision Mr S and Miss S made a complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think that the claim had been 
unfairly declined. He didnt think that either the cancellation or curtailment sections of the 
policy applied because Mr S and Miss S hadnt cancelled their entire trip and they hadnt cut 
it short. He also noted that the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) 
said that Ms government had suspended all direct flights between the UK and M following 
the emergence of a new strain of Covid-19. He concluded there was no cover under the 
policy for the circumstances in which Mr S and Miss S found themselves in. 
Mr S and Miss S didnt agree and highlighted the information that theyd been provided with 
during the sales call. Our investigator clarified that URV agreed to our service considering 
that aspect of the complaint, which they did. Having listened to the sales call he didnt think 
the policy had been mis-sold, although he thought the advisor could have made some of the 
information about the claims process for cancelled flights clearer. Mr S and Miss S asked an 
ombudsman to review their complaint. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was the policy mis-sold? 
Mr S and Miss S werent given advice about the policy. So URV had a responsibility to give 
them clear, fair and non-misleading information. But they didnt need to make sure that the 
policy was right for them. I dont think that the policy was mis-sold because: 
Ive listened to the sales call and taken into account that URV did apologise for some 
of the information given during the call. Having listened to the call Im satisfied that 
the salesperson didnt provide mis-leading information
URV did explain the key features of cover during the call. And although Miss S 
queried the cancellation cover, her questions were predominantly focused on the 
excess. And the agent did make it clear that her first port of call would be the airline 
in the event of a cancellation
Even if I thought that Mr S and Miss S were given unclear, unfair or mis-leading 
information during the call, I still dont think its fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint. I say that because they were provided with full details of the cover theyd 
purchased within the policy documents. So, it was open to them to cancel the policy 
within the cooling off period if it didnt meet their demands and needs. 
Was the claim unfairly declined? 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding this complaint. I say that because: 
Mr S and Miss S departed on their trip and it wasnt cancelled in its entirety. So, I 
dont think there is cover under the cancellation section of the policy for the 
circumstances they found themselves in, namely one leg of their return journey being 
cancelled. Thats because the cancellation section offers cover if Mr S and Miss S 
were unable to go on their trip. 
I also dont think that Mr S and Miss Ss trip was cut short. They made the first part of 
their return journey as planned. However, the final part of their journey home was 
cancelled. So, I dont think its covered under the curtailment section of the policy 
either 
Ive looked to see whether there are any other sections of the policy which would 
offer Mr S and Miss S cover for part of their return journey not going ahead. But this 
simply isnt an insured event under any section of the policy
Ive taken into account whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct URV to 
consider a claim under the delay section of the policy but I dont think it would be in 
the circumstances of this case. I say that because this section is designed to cover 
delays at the airport and Mr S and Miss didnt pass through passport control as 
required by the policy terms and conditions. So, I dont think this section of the policy 
applies in the circumstances of this case
Even if I thought that there was an insured event under the policy I wouldnt uphold 
Mr S and Miss Ss complaint. I say that because Ive not seen evidence that theyve 
made reasonable attempts to recover their losses from the airline who cancelled the 
flight. Its unclear whether Mr S and Miss have attempted to contact their airline for a 
refund but they may wish to do so 
Finally, Mr S and Miss S initially claimed for lost luggage. I understand that their 
luggage was since returned to them. Thats consistent with the evidence Ive seen 
which says that their luggage was returned to them.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman