DRN-1568582
The complaint
Mr S acquired a used car in early August 2018, by hire purchase over 54 months with 
Advantage Finance Ltd. He complains that his car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. He says that his car is unsafe to drive, and that he wants to be allowed to reject it.
What happened
Mr S said:
Problems developed shortly taking delivery of his car  it underwent repairs by the 
supplying dealership costing over £3,000 in late August 2018, but these repairs 
turned out not to be satisfactory
He no longer had confidence in the dealer, and complained to Advantage later in 
2018
He had been introduced to Advantage by a credit intermediary  after some delay 
and negotiations with Advantage and the intermediary, he agreed that his car should 
be repaired again by the dealer
His car was repaired again during January 2019  but, in late January 2019, he 
emailed Advantage saying that he no longer wanted the car (in effect, he wished to 
reject it)
He subsequently agreed to accept the return of his car in March 2019
But he complained to Advantage again shortly afterwards, saying that his car had 
once more developed problems  which, in his view, had arisen because previous 
repairs had failed
The car had become unsafe to drive, as a result of which it had been SORNed 
Advantage said:
At the point of supply, Mr Ss car was eight years old and had travelled 118,000 miles
The costs of repairing his car in August 2018 were shared between the supplying 
dealership and the provider of his cars warranty
Mr Ss car was repaired again in mid-January 2019, before he emailed it saying that 
he wanted rejection
It considered that Mr S did not have the right to reject outright, after repairs (to which 
he had consented) had been completed
Mr S complained to it in March 2019 on the day that his car failed a MOT test (at 
which time his car had travelled about 11,500 more miles than the point of supply)  
the test failure was due to two broken components
Mr S apparently organised repairs that enabled his car to pass a MOT test six days 
later  it was not allowed the opportunity to have the car inspected before these 
repairs, to determine whether they arose because previous repairs had failed
But the information available to it about previous repairs, and about the two broken 
components which caused the March MOT test failure, indicated that the March 2019 
repairs were not connected with previous repairs
Mr S contacted it once more, in April 2019, saying that he still wanted to reject his car
In these circumstances, the onus was on Mr S to demonstrate that his car had not been 
satisfactorily repaired in August 2018 and January 2019, and so its faults identified (and 
repaired) in March 2019 could be traced back to the point of supply (in August 2018). The 
alternative is that the cars faults arose from normal wear and tear.
Advantage told us: 
As goodwill gestures, it offered   
oto contribute towards any repair costs Ms S had incurred  Mr S did not 
respond to this offer
oto arrange and pay for his car to be independently inspected, in order to 
obtain further evidence about whether the March 2019 faults could be traced 
back to the point of supply (even though the onus was on Mr S to 
demonstrate this)  Mr S accepted this offer
The independent inspection was arranged with Mr S to take place in June 2019, but 
he was not present when the inspector arrived to examine his car
As a result, the inspection was only partial (the cars mileage appeared to be the 
same as at the time of its second March 2019 MOT test  which would not be 
unexpected, given Mr Ss statement that his car was unsafe and had been SORNed) 
The limited inspection carried was unable to find evidence to trace the March 2019 
faults back to the point of supply
Advantage wrote to Mr S in July 2019, saying that it was unable to uphold his complaint. 
Mr S then referred his complaint to us. And Advantage provided evidence to us, relating to 
its direct involvement in his complaint.  
Our investigator asked Advantage to obtain further information from the supplying 
dealership, relating to Mr Ss complaint. But it provided evidence to us indicating that the 
dealer was no longer trading, which meant that it was unable to do so. 
Based on the available evidence, our investigator did not think the complaint should be 
upheld:
Mr S stated that his car was unsafe to drive  but she noted that his car passed its 
second MOT test in March 2019, and she had been no evidence to support Mr Ss 
statement
The issues experienced by Mr S with his car seemed to her to be as a result of 
normal wear and tear 
She also noted that Advantage had made what she considered to be a fair offer to 
contribute to any repair costs incurred by Mr S
She did not consider it would be fair to ask Advantage to do anything more to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He also disputed Advantages statement that the 
supplying dealership was no longer trading.  And he subsequently provided to us:
Evidence Indicating that the dealer was continuing to trade
Further evidence relating to his car in August 2018
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Mr Ss complaint is against Advantage. It is not against the supplying dealership.
Advantage has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable 
person would have regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled. But there are limits to 
Advantages responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Our investigator thought it was likely that Mr Ss car was faulty, because it was repaired 
shortly after the point of supply (August 2018) and again in January 2019. On balance, and 
for the same reasons, I find that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr S appears to have complained to the supplying dealership in August 2018, and the car 
was repaired by the dealer. Mr S then complained to Advantage that these repairs were 
unsatisfactory. He appears to have agreed that further repairs should be undertaken by the 
dealer  these took place in mid-January 2019. 
, 
Mr S also appears to have emailed Advantage in late January 2019, asking to reject his car. 
Advantage considered this request, but did not agree to it, because:
Mr S had previously consented to his car being repaired again
These repairs had already been completed, before his request was received
I find that Advantage did not act unfairly, when it declined Mr Ss request  because its 
justifications for doing so were reasonable. And Mr S subsequently agreed to accept the 
return of his car in March 2019. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr Ss car failed a MOT test. Mr S then appears to have arranged for 
further repairs, which enabled his car to pass a second MOT six days later. 
But Mr S considered the need for further repairs to have arisen because the cars previous 
repairs had failed. He also considered his car to be unsafe to drive. So, he told Advantage 
that he still wanted to reject it.
I think that Mr S might have been entitled to reject his car, if he could have demonstrated it 
was more likely than not that the further repairs were needed because previous repairs 
(undertaken to correct faults present or developing at the point of supply) had failed. He took 
up an offer from Advantage to have his car independently inspected.
Advantage told us that the time, date and place at which the inspection was to take place 
were agreed with Mr S. Evidence from Advantage indicates that it took place as agreed  
but, for whatever reason, Ms S was not present. This meant only a partial inspection could 
be undertaken. 
The independent inspector found no evidence linking the further repairs (carried out in 
March 2019) with previous repairs. It was acknowledged that that these further repairs 
included replacement of a component, of which the car had more than one, and that the 
same component differently located had been replaced earlier. But the component replaced 
earlier had not failed again.  
It is unfortunate that Mr S was not present at this inspection. But, as noted earlier, the onus 
was on him to demonstrate the link between the March 2019 repairs and those carried out 
previously. And, regrettably from his perspective, Mr S has not done so.I have seen no evidence of such a link  and so, on balance, I find that there is no link. This 
means that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
I sympathise with Mr S. I have seen no evidence that his car is unsafe to drive, but it has 
clearly exhibited many faults since he acquired it. (Although the car still travelled around 
11,500 miles in the period between acquisition and March 2019.) 
Without evidence to the contrary, I am bound to conclude (on the balance of probabilities) 
that these faults arose from normal wear and tear, or for other reasons, which occurred after 
the point of supply.
Mr S may (or may not) have a valid complaint against the supplying dealership. But 
Advantages responsibilities in this matter are limited to point of supply faults  and so I am 
unable to find in his favour.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman