DRN-2814933
The complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) provided poor customer service 
when his central heating boiler broke down, and he called on BGI under his home 
emergency insurance policy.
  
What happened
On 1 December 2020 Mr P contacted BGI and set up a new home emergency insurance 
policy for his home covering his central heating system and several kitchen appliances. Mr P 
also owned several rental properties for which he already had emergency policies with BGI.
On 3 December 2020 Mr P booked a plumbing appointment, which was carried out by BGI 
on 7 December 2020.
On 7 December 2020, Mr P phoned BGI to book a breakdown appointment for his boiler. He 
said he had no heating or hot water, and was noted as a vulnerable customer. An 
appointment was booked for 15 December 2020. He asked if an earlier appointment was 
available and was offered an emergency appointment for 9 December 2020, which he 
accepted.
Unfortunately, the engineer didnt attend on 9 December 2020 as BGIs telephone 
representative directed the engineer to one of Mr Ps rental properties by mistake. On 11 
December 2020, Mr P cancelled his policy with BGI and arranged to have the repairs carried 
out by a private contractor on 15 December 2020 at a total cost of £464.81.
 
Mr P wanted BGI to refund this amount, pay for further work (including a boiler service) that 
he said would have been covered by his BGI policy, and pay further compensation.
Initially, BGI offered compensation of £100 for the missed appointment on 9 December 
2020. It said that under the policy pre-existing faults on the boiler wouldnt have been 
covered. With the call out coming so soon after the policy was set up it wasnt certain that 
the faults would in fact have been covered by the policy. So it didnt think BGI should be 
liable for the costs incurred.
BGI confirmed that Mr P had only paid for time on cover from inception on 1 December 2020 
up till he cancelled the policy on 11 December 2020. During this time he had the benefit of 
the plumbing appointment without paying any charge mentioned in the policy terms and 
conditions which would normally follow cancellation. It didnt think it should have to pay for 
any further work as no policy was in existence after that date.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She said Mr P 
suffered from serious health conditions and was without heating and hot water in winter. 
When the December 2020 appointment was missed, he still had the original 15 December 
2020 appointment available which he could have taken up.
 
The investigator thought this was a long time for him to wait without heating and hot water, 
and she hadnt seen any evidence that BGI had offered anything sooner. She thought Mr P 
had no choice in practice but to arrange the repair himself. She didnt think there was now 
any way of knowing if the pre-existing faults provision in the policy would have been applied.
Mr P wanted BGI to pay now for a boiler service. However, as the policy had been cancelled 
the investigator didnt think BGI had to offer this. He also wanted compensation for being 
without heating and hot water. The investigator thought it was sufficient, and a fair outcome, 
if BGI paid the repair costs he had incurred.
BGI said it didnt think it was responsible for the full amount of the invoice, because electrical 
work wouldnt have been covered on the repair visit if it had happened. However, it was 
willing to pay the £464.81 to bring the matter to a conclusion.
Mr P responded to say, in summary, that:
the parts fitted by his engineer were easily sourced and so he didnt think there was 
any reason why the boiler wouldnt have been accepted on to the policy by BGI;
he thought BGI should pay the cost of servicing the boiler as it had time to carry this 
out before the boiler failed, which might indeed have prevented the failure; and
he thought he should be compensated for the time he was without heat and power, 
as this threatened his health and had also affected his ability to work at the time.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BGI has raised some doubt as to whether all or part of the repair costs Mr P incurred would 
actually have been covered under the policy. I think the fact that the parts replaced were 
easily sourced doesnt necessarily mean that other issues wouldnt have prevented the 
boiler being accepted under the policy.
The policy was only in existence for 11 days before Mr P cancelled it. As it was to run for a 
year, I dont think its realistic to say the annual service should have been carried out during 
those first 11 days.
The boiler should have been repaired, and heat and power restored, on 9 December 2020, if 
BGI had carried out the arranged appointment under the policy. However, it was a few days 
after this before Mr P could arrange alternative repairs, during which he was without heat 
and power and suffered discomfort and inconvenience.
He also says this meant some of his work for clients was delayed, and some lost. But I 
havent seen any evidence of this, or that it resulted in actual financial loss. 
All in all, like the investigator, I think that fair compensation in all the circumstances is that 
BGI should refund to Mr P the £464.81 costs he has incurred.
  
Putting things right
To put things right, I think BGI should refund to Mr P the £464.81 costs he has incurred.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr P £464.81.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman