DRN-3865467
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited (Tavistock) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
For the sake of clarity, while Mr Ms original complaint was about the advice he received to 
transfer one of his DB pension schemes, the advice in question included a recommendation 
that Mr M also transfer his DB pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS)  it was one piece 
of advice covering both DB pensions. Tavistock didnt investigate the suitability of the BSPS 
transfer. But in line with our inquisitorial approach and because I understand in any event 
Mr M wanted to complain about his BSPS pension  he just wanted to complain about each 
one separately  Ive followed the investigators approach here and considered the advice 
Tavistock gave as a whole covering both Mr Ms DB pensions.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017, scheme members were told that terms had been agreed for a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring 
mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in 
respect of a DB pension scheme) and that when it took affect they would have a choice - 
either move into the new scheme - BSPS2 - or remain in the existing scheme and move with 
it to the PPF.
Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the
security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. Mr M met with Tavistock in October 2017 
and it completed a financial planning questionnaire to gather information about his 
circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things, this recorded that Mr M was aged 56; 
he was married; he had one non-dependent child; he and his wife owned their 
unencumbered home; he had a small credit card debt; he and his wife jointly had around 
£20,000 in savings; he had two DB pensions he wanted advice on; and he wanted to retire 
at 57, have a lump sum of £40,000, work part-time, and draw and annual income of £12,000. 
Tavistock also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
Low medium.
In October 2017 members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 21 November 2017 Tavistock advised Mr M to transfer both his DB pension benefits into 
a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds within a range of investments, 
which Tavistock deemed matched Mr Ms attitude to risk. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were: to provide Mr M with flexibility and control over his 
retirement income and to enable Mr M to reduce his working hours; and to provide the best 
outcome in terms of inheritability  the ability for Mr M to pass on what remained of his 
pension fund to his family upon his death despite the transfer likely being less beneficial from 
an income perspective.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and sometime afterwards the amounts of around 
£223,700 and £157,600 were received into the new personal pension.
In 2022 Mr M complained to Tavistock about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that upon reflection he was concerned about the advice he received and wanted things 
investigated.
Tavistock didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said its file was clear that Mr M 
wanted to retire at 57 and that it was satisfied he had a very clear picture of what he wanted 
to achieve. It said Mr M wanted a better quality of life away from full-time work and the 
flexibility of taking his pension benefits when required which the transfer provided. It said 
Mr M was given a detailed report and the necessary information to make an informed 
decision about whether to go ahead. It said the recommendation report was very clear that 
Mr M would not be better off by transferring and that he was comfortable with this and 
understood the risk he was taking. In conclusion it said it believed the advice was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr M referred his complaint to us. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and required Tavistock to pay compensation. In summary they said that one of the 
key reasons for the recommendation was that it provided Mr M with flexibility. But they didnt 
think Tavistock had demonstrated a compelling reason why Mr M needed flexibility. They 
said Mr Ms objective of wanting to retire at 57 couldve been achieved by taking early 
retirement from one or both of his DB schemes. Because Mr M was willing to do part-time 
work, they said it might have been possible for Mr M to draw on just one of his DB pensions 
to supplement his part-time income allowing him to defer taking the other one until he 
decided to give up work completely. They said this wouldve given Mr M the flexibility he 
appeared to need. And they said there was nothing to indicate Mr M needed access to a 
cash lump sum greater than his DB schemes could provide. They also said that enhanced 
death benefits wasnt a compelling reason to transfer either. They said while the critical yield 
analysis wasnt required because Mr M wanted to retire within six-months, it appeared Mr M 
would likely be worse off in terms of income if he transferred to a personal pension 
arrangement. They said it was Mr Ms intention to retire in 2018 although this was delayed 
due to unforeseen circumstances. So they said redress for Mr Ms BSPS pension should be 
based on the benefits available to him through the PPF because this offered more 
favourable terms for taking early retirement in this case. And because Mr M had retired at 
61, this is the age the loss calculation for both DB schemes should be based on.
Tavistock disagreed and said that it wanted an Ombudsman to review the complaint  but it 
didnt provide any further representations.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
In many cases like this, it is appropriate to consider the financial viability of the transfer  that 
is to what extent there was an opportunity for a consumer to improve on the benefits 
available through the DB scheme by transferring to a personal pension arrangement. 
Typically, in my view, there would be little point in a consumer giving up the guarantees 
available to them through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits 
outside the scheme.But in Mr Ms case, while Tavistock carried out a transfer value analysis report showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB schemes (the critical yield), because Mr M intended to retire within around 
six months of the advice, the critical yields werent provided. In any event, Tavistocks 
recommendation to Mr M was not because it believed Mr M would be better off in terms of 
the overall level of benefits available to him through his DB schemes by transferring  indeed 
Tavistock set out in the suitability report, which included reference to its cashflow modelling, 
that in all likelihood in terms of the level of income Mr M would receive, it would be less than 
hed get through the DB schemes. 
So, I dont think I need to consider this aspect of things  its not disputed that Mr M was 
unlikely to match or improve on the income available to him through his DB schemes by 
transferring to a personal pension arrangement. Tavistocks recommendation to Mr M was 
based on other considerations  primarily flexibility and better inheritability or death benefits. 
So, because financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Tavistock believes is the case here -  there might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable and in a consumers best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits - Ive considered this below.
 
Flexibility and income needs
The main reason Tavistock recommended the transfer was because it said it would provide 
Mr M with flexibility  it would allow him to take control of his retirement income (when and 
how he took his pension benefits) and enable him to reduce his working hours.
But having considered the evidence, Im not persuaded Mr M needed flexibility  I think the 
reference to flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of moving to a personal 
pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ms. But in any event, I dont 
think Mr M needed to transfer to achieve flexibility if thats what he required.
Mr M was 56 at the time of the advice and it was recorded that he wanted to retire in around 
six months time. And as I said earlier on, I think this was a genuine intention of Mr Ms  I 
think hed formulated a plan. Mr M indicated that he wanted to take a cash lump sum to 
pursue one of his hobbies and that hed already been offered some part-time work to occupy 
some of his time. He also indicated that he might do more work on a consultancy basis with 
his current employer.
But I think Mr M couldve achieved things by remaining in his DB schemes. Firstly, Mr M 
already had the option of early retirement available to him  he didnt have to transfer out to 
achieve this. Secondly, despite reference in one section of the suitability report to Mr M 
wanting access to the maximum tax-free cash possible, his objective and apparent need was 
for a lump sum of £40,000 (I note he ultimately only accessed £20,000.) And based on 
Tavistocks analysis, at age 57 if Mr M moved with the existing BSPS to the PPF he 
wouldve been entitled to a lump sum of around £40,000. Alternatively, Mr Ms other DB 
scheme offered a lump sum of around £22,000 at age 57. So it appears Mr M already had 
the option to access what he indicated he needed by taking the early retirement option from 
either of his DB schemes, depending on his precise needs at the time.
As to Mr Ms income need  I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr M had a strong need 
to vary his income throughout retirement. It was recorded that once Mr M retired, or stopped 
working full-time, his expenditure would reduce (a significant portion of his current 
expenditure was for savings and pension contributions) and his income need was £12,000 a 
year throughout retirement. If Mr M chose to take his tax-free cash from the BSPS, through 
the PPF at age 57 he would be entitled to an income or around £6,055 a year. And from his other DB pension, he could take a full pension of around £4,500 a year or a 
lump sum and reduced pension or around £3,300 a year. So combined this would give Mr M 
access to a bit less than or just over £10,000 depending on what he options he chose.
I think Mr M could then supplement this income from the part-time work he intended to do to 
meet his income need  for example hed already been offered a job at one day a week on 
£200 a day.
Notwithstanding this, Im mindful that Mr Ms wifes intention was to continue working until 
she was 61. And she was earning £25,000 a year. So, based on Mr M and his wifes current 
household expenditure of around £2,300 a month, her income alone was sufficient to meet 
just over 70% of their expenditure. This means Mr M would only need around £500 a month 
to generate the same combined level of income he and his wife currently enjoyed. But on the 
basis that Mr M said their household expenditure would reduce to around £1,086 a month 
when he retired or stopped working full-time, Mr Ms wifes income alone would more than 
cover this amount. I think this means Mr M had several options available to him, and indeed 
flexibility, by retaining his DB pensions. 
For example Mr M could choose to draw the benefits from his BSPS to generate the cash 
lump sum he needed. He could then either save the income he received if it wasnt needed 
for use later on, or he could use it along with this part-time work to increase his disposable 
income. He could then defer taking his other DB pension to allow for an increased starting 
income when the time came for him to draw on its benefits and he wanted to stop work 
altogether. Alternatively, as I said above, Mr M could draw on both schemes benefits at 57 if 
he chose to. And this would still allow Mr M and his wife to generate sufficient joint income 
when she retired at 61. It was recorded that her pensions would provide an income of 
around £7,200 a year, plus a lump sum. So combined, Mr M and his wife would likely receive 
close to, if not in excess of £18,000 a year (allowing for increases / escalation) against a 
target of £12,000. Mr M also had his defined-contribution workplace pension (albeit a small 
balance) and he and his wife would also receive their state pensions at 67 to further 
supplement things. 
Overall, I think Mr M couldve likely met his retirement income needs by retaining his DB 
scheme benefits based on his intended retirement age of 57 and given Mr Ms documented 
intention to carry out part-time work to supplement things. I dont think Tavistock did enough 
to explore this option with Mr M. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to 
transfer his pensions just to have extra flexibility, that Im not persuaded he really needed. 
Death benefits
The other key reason for Tavistocks recommendation was to provide greater inheritability  
the ability for Mr M to pass on what remained of his pension fund to his family upon his 
death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB pension benefits to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision tool. And I dont think 
Tavistock fully explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB schemes were underplayed. Mr M 
was married, so the spouses pension provided by the DB schemes wouldve been useful to 
his wife if Mr M predeceased her. I dont think Tavistock made the value of this benefit clear 
enough to Mr M.
 
Both schemes spouses pension were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. So, its possible that there might not be much left, if any, if Mr M lived a long 
life, he took more from his pension than anticipated, if investment returns were poor or his 
fund experienced a significant drop in value. In any event, Tavistock should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Tavistock shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned a whole of life policy with either a sum assured of £381,000 or £223,000  this 
was discounted by Mr M because he didnt want to take out a whole of life protection plan. I 
imagine the cost was a factor here too given the quotes were around £600 and £200 a 
month respectively. But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to 
Mr M.
Basing the quote on the transfer value(s) of Mr Ms pension benefits essentially assumed 
that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr M wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr M how much he would ideally like to leave to his spouse 
and/or children, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis 
(written in trust if appropriate) which was likely to be cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as an alternative
Summary
I accept that Mr M was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr M. But Tavistock wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought 
he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up two sources 
of guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which would broadly meet his income needs. 
By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, 
there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr M 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the schemes just to have flexibility or the 
option of having access to a greater level of tax-free cash that Im not persuaded he really 
needed, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees 
associated with his DB schemes. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to 
transfer his DB schemes to a personal pension.
So, I think Tavistock shouldve advised Mr M to remain in both of his DB schemes. And in relation to his BSPS benefits, I think it shouldve advised him to remain within the 
scheme and move with it to the PPF. I say this because, While Mr M didnt start drawing an 
income from his pension until 2022 at age 61, it is clear from both what Mr M has said and 
the advice paperwork at the time that it was his intention to retire in 2018 at age 57. 
So in terms of Mr Ms BSPS benefits, I think that it would've been in his best interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
would be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement; particularly as it 
was likely Mr M would choose to access his tax-free cash. 
While Mr M wouldnt later be able to transfer out of the PPF, the evidence suggests there 
was no apparent reason for him to need to do so.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Tavistocks advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of either of his DB pension schemes against Tavistocks advice. I say this 
because, while as Ive already said Mr M was likely motivated to transfer when he 
approached Tavistock  particularly in relation to his BSPS benefits given the situation at the 
time - on balance, I still think Mr M wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had 
happened as they should have and Tavistock had recommended he not transfer out of the 
schemes. Ive seen nothing to indicate Mr M was either an experienced investor  in fact it 
appears he had no prior investment experience - or someone who possessed the requisite 
skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice they was given, particularly in complex 
pension matters. Mr Ms pensions accounted for pretty much all of his private retirement 
provision and neither his attitude to risk nor his capacity for loss was high. So, if Tavistock 
had provided Mr M with clear advice against transferring out of both DB schemes, explaining 
why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about the BSPS were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So, if 
Tavistock had clearly explained that Mr M could meet all of his objectives without risking 
either of his guaranteed pensions, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr M wouldve insisted on transferring out of his DB pension schemes if Tavistock had 
given suitable advice that he not do so.
In light of the above, I think Tavistock should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Tavistock  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr M. Taking everything into account, including Mr Ms age 
and the fact he is now drawing on his pension and he is worried about its ability to sustain 
his retirement income need, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I 
think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Tavistock to put Mr M, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider if suitable advice had been given, Mr M would most likely have remained in both 
occupational pension schemes. And in relation to his BSPS benefits, I think he wouldve 
remained with the scheme and moved with it to the PPF.
Tavistock must therefore undertake a redress calculation for each DB pension in line with 
the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in 
policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For the BSPS pension, Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and the Financial Ombudsman 
upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, as I set out above, Mr M retired at 61 and started drawing his pension benefits. 
So, for both calculations compensation should be based on a retirement age of 61.
The calculations should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of my 
final decision.
If the redress calculations demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Tavistock Partners 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited pays Mr M the balance.
Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited should also pay Mr M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Tavistock Partners (UK) 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman