DRN-3558279
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) continued charging 
him excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B complained to Nationwide that he was suffering from financial hardship due to charges 
applied to his account. Nationwide says it assisted Mr B by suspending unauthorised 
overdraft charges after November 2019. And as Mr B was dis-satisfied he referred the 
complaint to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Nationwide 
ought to have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial difficulty from April 2020 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Nationwide didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Mr Bs 
overdraft from April 2020. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr B was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr B had already notified Nationwide that he was struggling financially and he 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. Nationwides own 
literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged 
day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Mr Bs overdraft usage should have prompted 
Nationwide to have realised that Mr B wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt 
have continued offering it on the same terms. As Nationwide didnt react to Mr Bs overdraft 
usage and instead continued charging, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Nationwide 
didnt treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from April 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nationwide should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Mr B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Nationwide to 
reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Bs credit file, Nationwide should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft 
from April 2020. Nationwide can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
Mr B over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Nationwide should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
Nationwide can also reduce Mr Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman