DRN-4347552
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lending Works Limited changed its terms and conditions which allowed
it to vary her interest rates on her loans held on its peer-to-peer (P2P) crowdfunding
platform in order to replenish its provision fund (the Shield).
Ms G says she would have withdrawn her investments before the changes were made had
she known that Lending Works would eventually divert all her interest to the provision fund
and subsequently enforce negative interest rates.
What happened
Ms G held P2P lending accounts for a number of years on Lending Works platform and
invested funds in return for interest.
In January 2020, Lending Works changed its Lender Platform Terms and Conditions to allow
it to vary the interest rates investors received on existing loans, in order for it to replenish the
Shield  a segregated account used for the purpose of making payments to a lender when a
borrower does not meet its obligations under a P2P agreement. Prior to this change, interest
rates for ongoing loans were fixed. Lending Works also terminated an insurance policy,
which had covered the Shield against some causes of default.
In April 2020, Lending Works emailed investors to explain that a Normalisation Period was
being introduced in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Normalisation Period resulted
in a pause on all new retail investors signing up on the platform, a pause on all new
investments on the platform, as well as a suspension of the secondary market  a
mechanism which allowed investors to sell their existing loans to other investors. Lending
Works also introduced a 2% servicing fee in order to cover overheads associated with
servicing the loan portfolio.
Lending Works also introduced a Lender Rate Adjustment under the changed Lender
Platform Terms and Conditions to temporarily (initially for 90 days) divert all interest
repayments to the Shield for all active loans on the platform. This meant that Ms G received
capital repayments only on her loans. The Normalisation Period and Lender Rate
Adjustment was extended for an additional 90 days in July 2020 and again in October 2020.
In November 2020, Lending Works emailed investors to explain that it was introducing
negative interest rates due to the Shield requiring additional funding in order to protect
investors. Lending Works also explained that it intended to resume lending and reopen to
retail investors in January 2021 and that it would no longer be charging the 2% servicing fee
once lending resumed. It also explained that the secondary market would remain suspended
until further notice.
Following this, Ms G raised a complaint to Lending Works regarding the changes it had
introduced. In summary, she raised the following concerns:
She didnt think it was fair for Lending Works to introduce the Lender Platform Terms
and Conditions changes as she didnt receive the email notifying investors of the
proposed changes. She said she would have withdrawn from her investments if she
knew about the extent of these changes.
She was initially attracted to investing on Lending Works platform because of the
insurance policy it had in place for the Shield and she wouldnt have invested had
she known it would be terminated.
She didnt think it was fair for Lending Works to charge an interest shortfall  payable
to investors purchasing loans from existing investors if the loan rate is lower than the
current rates  considering the new Lender Platform Terms and Conditions were
imposed on her without her say.
She didnt think Lending Works had fairly reduced her interest as the Lender Platform
Terms and Conditions were not clear as to the extent to which Lending Works would
reduce this by.
She was unfairly unable to withdraw her funds during the normalisation period. She
was unemployed during this time and she was unable to access state benefits or get
help with her bills due to her having substantial savings with Lending Works. She
also said she was unable to purchase a house during the Stamp Duty holiday and
missed out on her ISA allowance. She said this caused her substantial distress and
inconvenience.
Lending Works considered Ms Gs complaint and partially upheld her complaint. In
summary, it said:
It had emailed Ms G on 28 November 2019 to notify her of the Lender Platform 
Terms and Conditions changes.
The changes were in investors best interests as the previous Shield mechanism was
rigid and did not have the ability to flex along with the performance of the loan
portfolio. This meant that if the Shield were to become depleted, then it did not have
the ability to provide it with more funding.
It allowed a period of more than 30 days before the changed were applied to allow
any investors who did not wish to continue investing to use the secondary market in
order to sell any outstanding loans to other investors. It confirmed that it would waive
any fees which would have otherwise been payable to Lending Works during this
window. These included the two fees charged when a secondary market transaction
occurs  a fixed transaction fee payable to Lending Works and a variable fee payable
to the investor purchasing the loan (this fee is only charged if the interest rate on a
loan is lower than the Target Annualised Return at the time an investor sells the
loan).Rather than allowing a deficit to build in the Shield, with the result that certain
investors would be exposed to losses that would not be covered by the Shield, it
decided it was in investors best interests as a whole to divert interest into the Shield
by varying the interest rate (eventually to a negative rate). It said this effectively
spread the losses across all investors equally (in proportion to their investment) and
avoided a situation where some 'unlucky' investors would be disproportionately
negatively impacted.
Between 2014 and 2019 the Shield had taken insurance cover at its own discretion to
protect against some of the risks it was exposed to. The Lender Platform Terms and
Conditions made it clear that the insurance cover was discretionary and that the
Shield may cease to take insurance at any time. At the most recent insurance policy
renewal, the protection relative to premium that the insurance offered resulted in the
decision not to renew the policies and this directly benefited retail investors as it
resulted in more funding being available in the contingency fund. Furthermore, the
exclusions that the insurers introduced would have excluded most of the loans that
defaulted during the Covid-19 pandemic.
One of the main reasons for triggering a Normalisation Period was that it was
concerned about the creditworthiness of borrowers since the Covid-19 pandemic
began, and lending to customers that would not repay their loans would cause the
Shield to come under greater pressure. In addition, the uncertainty regarding the
creditworthiness of borrowers meant that it was difficult to price loans secondary
market loans accurately in a way which is fair to new investors buying and existing
investors selling loans.
Although Lending Works felt it had acted fairly and in line with its Lender Platform
Terms and Conditions, it recognised the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms G
and offered £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms G didnt accept Lending Works findings as she felt Lending Works ought to immediately
release all of her invested funds with no penalty fees, reimburse all interest shed had
diverted to the Shield, reimburse all negative interest and provide substantial compensation
for the distress and inconvenience caused. So she referred her complaint to this service for
an independent review.
One of our investigators considered Ms Gs complaint and upheld it. In summary, he said he
had concerns with how the changes were implemented and said Lending Works should put
her back in the position had the change never been made. He also felt the offer of £1,000 for
the distress and inconvenience was fair.
Following their initial view on the complaint, the investigator had extensive conversations
with Ms G and Lending Works and this resulted in it making a revised offer. Lending Works
said that whilst it didnt necessarily agree with all of the investigators findings, it didnt
believe it would be wise in the circumstances to prolong the process for Ms G any further
and so it agreed to put her back in the position she would have been in had it not applied the
negative interest rates.
It said that rather than modelling what would have happened if Ms Gs funds had remained
invested at the fixed rate from November 2019 and applying any losses she would have
incurred if the Shield hadnt had sufficient funds to cover any bad debt on her individual
loans, it instead wouldnt consider loan defaults that might have applied and would simply
look at the account balance as of November 2019 (the date on which the communication 
regarding the January 2020 changes was emailed to Ms G) and refund any difference 
between that amount and the account as at the date the calculation is made.There were some further discussions which led to Lending Works making the following
revised offer to put things right for Ms G:
Pay Ms G the difference between her account balances on 1 January 2020 and 31 
March 2021  ensuring any negative interest and fees are reimbursed.
Pay Ms G £1,500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Ms G has outstanding loans on the platform that shes currently unable to sell, it
agreed to pay Ms G a lump sum to cover all expected future fees associated with
these loans and committed to cover any future shortfall.
Ms G didnt accept this offer as she said her losses from the reduced interest rates should
be calculated based on the 6% target interest rate over the full five-year term. She felt the
changes Lending Works introduced forced her to make withdrawals and she lost the
opportunity to earn 6% over the full term of her investments.
The investigator considered Lending Works offer to be fair and explained why he didnt think
it needed to calculate the offer on the basis Ms G had proposed. In summary, he said:
Where a business done something wrong, our service aims to put the customer back 
in the same position theyd be in if the wrongdoing never happened.
If Lending Works had never introduced variable rates, then the Shield would have 
likely run out of funds, based on the rapidly decreasing balance in 2019. And so, Ms 
G would have likely suffered significant capital losses.
Putting her back in the same position as if the change was never made means
comparing her actual return to a hypothetical scenario where the Shield ran out of
money  and so couldnt cover all, if any, missed payments or defaults in her
portfolio.
6% was only a target rate and was always subject to change based on the
performance of her portfolio and even with the Shield in place, if a borrower defaulted
the Shield would only repay the capital - not the anticipated interest over the life of
the loan. And so she was always at risk of not making the target interest rate.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on the matter in June 2023. I include a copy below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear how strongly Ms G feels about her complaint. I want to assure her that Ive carried
out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have submitted. We
provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts and this is
reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. Its part of my role to identify and
concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair outcome  this
means I might not mention everything Ms G has said, but I will comment on everything that
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.
Whilst there still seems to be some dispute as to whether Lending Works acted fairly in
introducing the changes to the Lender Platform Terms and Conditions, considering its
agreed to compensate Ms G, my decision will focus solely on whether Lending Works offer
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining why I dont think Ms Gs proposed
settlement is fair. Ms G believes that she ought to be entitled to 6% interest on her
investment over the full five-year term.
This services starting point for redressing complaints is to try and put the consumer back in
the position they would have been in if the changes hadnt happened. Whilst I dont think its
necessary in this case to comment on Lending Works decision to make the changes, in
determining whether Lending Works offer is a fair one, I do need to consider what is likely to
have happened to Ms Gs investment had the changes not been made.
Lending Works has provided statements showing the balance of the Shield and from these
its clear that at the time of implementing the changes, funds in the Shield were depleting.
The changes were introduced shortly before the Covid-19 pandemic began, which had a
significant impact on lenders abilities to make repayments. I think its reasonable to say that
Lending Works lenders would have been impacted by this and on balance, its likely, given
the time Ms G had been investing on the platform and the diversification of her portfolio that
losses would have applied to her account had the Shield not been topped up by the
diversion of interest. Whilst Im not able to say with any certainty what the extent of her
losses would have been, given that Lending Works has explained that the Shield would have
been fully depleted during the Covid-19 pandemic had it not made the changes, its more
than likely that, in this scenario, she wouldnt have been able to achieve the 6% target
interest rate. The investigator who considered Ms Gs complaint provided her with some
calculations which suggested that she had received more in payments from the Shield than
she sacrificed in negative interest and so its clear Ms G did benefit from the Shield being in
place. Its also worth noting that the 6% rate was only a target rate and was always subject
to change based on the performance of her portfolio and even with the Shield in place, if a
borrower defaulted the Shield would only repay the capital - not the anticipated interest over
the life of the loan. So taking into account all of the above, I dont think it would be fair for
Lending Works to compensate Ms G in line with her proposed settlement.
Turning to Lending Works offer, Ive thought carefully about whether the offer is fair. And
having weighed up everything, Im minded to make a finding that the offer is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Lending Works offer is essentially to put Ms G back in the position had the negative interest
changes not applied. However, Ms Gs initial submissions made it clear that had she known
about the full extent of the changes and how it would impact her, she would have exited from
the platform in November 2019. In which case, it could be argued that a fairer and more
reasonable outcome would be to put Ms G back in the position she would have been in if
shed tried to exit the platform in November 2019. However, its unclear as to when she
would have been able to exit. I understand there wasnt much demand for buying other
investors loans on the secondary market during this time due to the influx in investors
looking to exit the platform. Furthermore, compensating Ms G in this way would mean that
she wouldnt have benefitted fully from the interest she subsequently received on her loans,
albeit her interest was reduced prior to the full interest diversion in April 2020 and negative
interest rates being introduced in November 2020.
In the previous scenario, I would need to consider what Ms G would have done with her
funds had she not remained invested on the platform. Ms G has mentioned potentially
investing the funds into an ISA. ISA rates at the time were much lower than the interest she
was receiving prior to the changes in April and November 2020 and so its unclear whether
she would have been in a better position in this scenario than the offer Lending Works has
proposed  especially considering its uncertain when she would have been able to sell her
loans and been able to invest these funds elsewhere.I also appreciate Ms G has mentioned investing some of the funds into buying a house.
However, there is clearly a lot of uncertainty around whether Ms G would have secured the
house but for Lending Works actions and so I dont think it would be fair to ask Lending
Works to compensate her for any losses arising from this.
Ive also considered that even if Lending Works hadnt made the changes it did, Ms G
wouldnt have made the returns shed hoped for, for the reasons Ive explained. While its
impossible to precisely recreate what her investments would have done and when the Shield
would have paid out, Ive considered that its possible that the level of defaults on her loans
would have left her worse off than she now is. And certainly worse than the position Lending
Works offer seeks to put her in.
Similarly, had Ms G left the platform (at a time when markets were about to become very
volatile as the Covid-19 pandemic hit), theres also no persuasive evidence Ive seen that
shed have been likely to make a substantially positive return (especially net of the fees
shed have likely had to pay to exit the platform and possibly to enter new investments).
Taking all that into account, Im satisfied Lending Works offer is fair and reasonable given
everything thats happened. Overall, I do think Lending Works offer strikes a balance
between Ms G not being exposed to the negative interest changes, whilst allowing her to
benefit from some interest during a time of economic uncertainty. The offer also allows Ms G
to exit from the platform without incurring any fees associated with doing so.
I also think the offer of £1,500 does fairly take into account the considerable distress, upset
and worry caused to Ms G. She had a substantial amount of money invested on the platform
and I understand the implications this had on her during a time when she was unemployed,
and when she says she was unable to benefit from government support.
Lending Works accepted my provisional findings, but Ms G didnt. In summary, Ms G said:
My provisional findings failed to address her complaint point that she was mis-sold 
the investment product in 2017.
Lending Works offer is unfair as it compensates her as if she was effectively put on a 
0% interest rate between 1 January 2020 to 31 March 2021. However, this means 
she misses out on all of the variable, positive interest earned between 1 January 
2020 and 5 April 2020 (when the 0% interest rate was introduced).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope Ms G doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to each submission 
or every point she has raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to do that, but rather to 
explain my findings on the key issue, which is whether Lending Works offer is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mis-sale points
I understand Ms G has raised concerns regarding the overall product being mis-sold to her. 
She says Lending Works misled her about the level of diversification her invested funds 
would benefit from and that an insurance policy would provide further protection. These mis-
sale arguments have been made in addition to changes Lending Works made which Ms G 
feels were unfairly introduced. As I mentioned in my provisional findings, as Lending Works 
has made an offer, my decision will focus on whether Lending Works offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. To be clear, this offer is in respect to changes 
introduced by Lending Works and not in relation to the overall investment product being mis-
sold. However, I will briefly explain why I have no concerns regarding the information 
provided to Ms G before she decided to invest.  
Lending Works was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in 
the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set 
out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are required to comply with. The 
most relevant principle here is: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Lending Works was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligation here is: 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So Lending Works was required to provide Ms G with information which was fair, clear and 
not misleading, in order to allow her to make an informed decision on whether the account 
was something that was right for to invest in.
In regard to the insurance policy, as I mentioned in my provisional findings, the Lender 
Platform Terms and Conditions made it clear that the insurance cover was discretionary and 
that the Shield may cease to take insurance at any time. So I dont agree Lending Works 
misled her here. 
Turning to her point about diversification. Ms G says that Lending Works website stated:
with Lending Works you'll be diversified to the maximum possible extent.
Ms G says her understanding of this was that between £0.01 and £1.00 of her invested 
funds would be put into any given loan part but she has since found out that up 10% of her 
funds could be invested. Whilst I agree that Lending Works could have provided further 
clarity around the level of diversification, I dont think the absence of such information 
necessarily renders the information misleading. Furthermore, if the level of diversification 
was crucial to Ms Gs decision to invest with Lending Works then I would have expected her 
to clarify this with it before proceeding to invest. 
So taking into account all of the above, Ive not seen anything to support that Ms G was 
given misleading information regarding the insurance policy and diversification when she first 
decided to invest with Lending Works. 
Lending Works offer
I explained in detail why I felt Lending Works offer was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and I dont think its necessary to expand on my findings further, other than to 
clarify to Ms G why Im not recommending Lending Works compensates her further for any 
positive interest earned between 1 January 2020 and 5 April 2020.
As I mentioned in my provisional findings, Ms G initial submissions made it clear that had 
she known about the full extent of the changes and how it would impact her, she would have exited from the platform in November 2019. And so to put her back in this position would 
mean that she wouldnt have earned any interest from November 2019 onwards. However, 
Lending Works offer allows her to essentially keep any interest earned from November 2019 
to January 2020. Whilst Ms G thinks she should also benefit from positive interest earned 
from January to April 2020, on the whole, I feel Lending Works offer strikes a fair balance 
between her not being exposed to the negative interest changes and allowing her to
benefit from some interest during a time of economic uncertainty, which she wouldnt have 
been entitled to had she exited in November 2019. The offer also allows Ms G to exit from 
the platform without incurring any fees associated with doing so.
I also think the offer of £1,500 does fairly take into account the considerable distress, upset
and worry caused to Ms G. She had a substantial amount of money invested on the platform
and I understand the implications this had on her during a time when she was unemployed,
and when she says she was unable to benefit from government support.
Putting things right
I think Lending Works offer is fair and so I intend to instruct it to do the following, if it hasnt
already:
Pay Ms G the difference between her account balances on 1 January 2020 and 31 
March 2021  ensuring any negative interest and fees are reimbursed.
Pay Ms G £1,500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As Ms G has outstanding loans on the platform that shes currently unable to sell, it 
should pay Ms G a lump sum to cover all expected future fees associated with these 
loans and take an undertaking to cover any future shortfalls that may arise.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lending Work Limiteds offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and it should compensate Ms G in line with this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman