DRN-3020922
The complaint
Mr L (by way of a representative) complains Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited,
(trading as Mutual), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ls complaint. Mutual did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint based on the information that I had at the time. An extract of the provisional 
decision and follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr L applied for 8 home collected loans between November 2015 and March 2020. Ive
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived date repayment 
dateterm (weeks)
1 £400.00 21/11/2015 11/08/2016 51
2 £200.00 19/03/2016 16/11/2016 51
3 £400.00 27/08/2016 12/07/2017 51
4 £290.00 29/10/2016 10/05/2017 51
5 £500.00 16/12/2017 11/04/2018 51
6 £500.00 12/05/2018 12/09/2018 102
7 £1,000.00 06/10/2018 26/06/2019 102
break in lending
8 £1,000.00 21/03/2020 15/07/2020 102
The adjudicator didnt think Mutual had made an error when it approved loans 1  4 or loan
8. But she thought by the time loan 5 was provided Mutual, at the very least, needed to have
been verifying the information Mr L was providing. But she couldnt say what those further
checks may have shown Mutual. The adjudicator therefore didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint
about loans 1  5 or loan 8.
The adjudicator also concluded that by loan 6 Mutual ought to have realised the pattern of
lending was harmful to Mr L. So, loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been granted.
Mr L appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings.
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response, Mutual provided us a
detailed response as to why it disagreed with the adjudicator's assessment. I want to be
clear that I've read the document in full. But in summary, Mutual said:
It doesnt offer short term loans and these loans were spread over a number of years
the checks it completed were proportionate
the loans are not high interest the lending pattern didnt indicate these loans were
unsustainable;
there is no evidence to suggest Mr L was reliant on these loans;
there is no requirement for Mr L to have a break between loans;
taking 8 loans over 6 years is different to taking 8 loans in 1 year;
Mr L had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he could
make
Mr L saved money by taking loans from Mutual as their credit is cheaper;
in a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to 3 or 4 loans per
year (but more may indicate financial difficulty). Mutual approved a lower number of
loans than this, so the lending was not likely to be unsustainable;
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr L (or his representative) doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings about
loans 1  5 or loan 8. I therefore think there is no longer a dispute about these loans. And
like the adjudicator, I would also agree that there doesnt appear to be anything in the
information that Mutual gathered which suggested Mr L couldnt afford the lending. So
instead, this decision will focus on whether Mutual did anything wrong when it lent loans 6
and 7.
Mutual has had other decisions from us which detail our approach to complaints of this
nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type
of credit as well as the cost of the product. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to
these issues. I dont intend to go into detail about that here. But a brief summary of this is
below.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could
repay loans 6 and 7 in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have done more to establish that any
lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The loan payments being
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time loans 6 and 7 were lent, Mutual was regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority, who had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Mr L. It
also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going to deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
Loan 6
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint because in their view, Mr L was reliant on this lending
and hed been indebted for around 30 months. But I dont agree, and Ive explained why
below.
After repaying loan 4, Mr L didnt return for lending for a period of around five months. So, in
my view there was an appreciable amount of time when Mr L had no lending relationship
with Mutual. When Mr L returned for further lending, this was for a slightly larger amount
than his previous loan and it was due to be repaid over the same term.
I think this break, coupled with the number of loans (as well as taking into consideration the
length of the first lending chain) and the fact there were no obvious signs in the manner in
which Mr L repaid the loans. There is also, in my view, no evidence to suggest that Mr Ls
indebtedness was increasing unreasonably or seemed harmful in any other way.
Afterall, the income (£354 per week) and expenditure (£169 per week) checks that Mutual
carried out before granting this loan indicated that his would be in a position to afford the
repayments he was committed to making of around £7.60 per week.But given Mr L was coming back, again fairly quickly for a new loan (a pattern shown in the
first lending chain) the loan amount wasnt increasing compared to loan 5 but Mr L was
doubling the repayment term. Given this commitment to be indebted for a further two years, I
think Mutuals checks needed to go further than just relying on what Mr L declared to it.
I think Mutual needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of Mr Ls financial
position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence of his income
via a payslip and then asked for evidence of what bills he had possibly, through his credit file
or paper copies of them. Alternately, Mutual couldve requested copies of Mr Ls bank
statements which wouldve given it an accurate picture of his financial position and wouldve
highlighted any financial difficulties he may have been having.
Mutual didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate. But that isnt the end of
the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Mutual shouldnt have given this loan, I have
to be satisfied that not only did Mutual not carry out a proportionate check, that by not
carrying out a proportionate check this has caused Mr L a loss  the loan ought not to have
been approved.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Mr Ls actual financial position at the time. In the absence of this information, I cant
conclude Mutual made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands, Im
proposing not to uphold this complaint.
Loan 7
Mr L returned fairly quickly after repaying loan 6 for loan 7. This was Mr Ls largest loan to
date to be repaid over the joint longest period of time (two years). Mr L was committed to
making weekly repayments of around £16.
Again, a credit search may have been carried out but Mutual hasnt provided me with any
results that it may have received, so I cant place any weight on these results.
Mutual, as for all the other loans, did ask for Mr Ls income and expenditure. At this time, it
knew his expenditure was around £230 per week. But, unlike the previous loan Mutual was
also aware of a change in circumstances.
Mr Ls weekly income had increased, so on top of receiving benefits and a pension he was
now receiving part time wages, this pushed his weekly income to just over £500. Based
solely on the information Mr L provided to Mutual, it wouldve been reasonable for Mutual to
have believed that he would be in a position to afford the loan repayments of around £16 per
week. This loan looked affordable.
But, even though there was a change in circumstances that Mutual was aware of, I dont
think Mutual carried out a proportionate check. Mr L had taken his largest loan for the
longest term at a time when Mutual believed to have had the most disposable income. And,
given the fact Mr L was committed to spending a further 2 years indebted, I think Mutuals
checks needed to go further.
So, like for loan 6, I think Mutual needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of
Mr Ls financial position and it shouldve been verifying the information was providing.
Mutual, in my view didnt do this. But for the same reason as loan 6, as I dont know what
Mutual may have seen at the time, I cant conclude that further checks wouldve highlighted
to Mutual that the loan was unaffordable for him. So, Im planning not upholding Mr Ls
complaint about this loan as well.Both parties were given the opportunity to provide further comments and evidence for me to 
consider. The deadline for comments in response to the provisional decision was today. 
Both parties have responded, and Mr L has provided further comments. Im therefore, 
proceeding to issue the final decision. 
Mutual responded to the provisional decision by letting us know it had nothing further to add. 
Mr L didnt agree with the provisional decision, in response he made a number of points. But, 
in summary he said;
he wouldve gone to a bank to get a loan, but he wasnt able to because of his bad 
credit rating
Mr L had a number of different creditors
he says Mutual employed a member of staff who used to work for another home 
credit provider who was aware that Mr L had previous repayment problems with the 
previous lender
the interest rate was too high
credit checks werent carried out before each loan
Mr L was taking out new loans to repay previous loans; and 
there was no assessment as to whether these loans were the best product for his 
needs.  
Ive considered what Mr L has said, and I do understand his strength of feeling about this 
complaint. But, given the comments that have been provided, they havent changed my mind 
on the outcome of the complaint, and Ive explained why below.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with what Mr L has said, that the checks carried out by Mutual werent proportionate 
before it provided some of these loans  notably loans 6 and 7. But, that doesnt mean the 
complaint will be successful. In order to be successful, I would need to see what Mutual may 
have seen had it carried out the check I think it needed to. But this case, Im not able to do 
so.  
I can see that at times Mr L was taking out new loans fairly close to when a previous loan 
was repaid. But equally, there are some gaps in the borrowing relationship, where Mr L 
wasnt indebted to Mutual and Ive had to take this into account. 
There is no requirement for a lender to carry out a credit check before approving lending, let 
alone a check to a required standard. What a lender cant do is carry out a check and then 
not react to the information it is provided. 
Mutual has provided some commentary around the credit check results that were carried out 
on the final loan  this can be found in its final response letter. But the search results havent 
been provided. I also dont have a copy of Mr Ls credit file so I dont know what Mutual may 
have seen in relation to his other creditors and his repayment history to them. 
I appreciate that Mr L considers that a high rate of interest has been charged but looking at 
the agreements and statements of accounts Mutual has charged him what it said it would. 
So, I cant uphold the complaint because Mutual charges a higher rate of interest compared 
to a loan that may be able to be obtained from say a high street bank. Mr L has said that Mutual employed an agent from another home credit business and so 
wouldve been aware of his circumstances. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence that 
shows this was to Mr Ls detriment because Ive not seen any evidence to show what his 
financial position was likely to be at the time these loans were approved. 
Given, no new information (such as credit file or bank statements) has been provided to me 
from Mr L, I see no reason to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional 
decision. I still dont think Mutual carried out proportionate checks when it provided Mr L with 
loans 6 and 7. But, I dont have any information from Mr L to show what his circumstances 
were likely to be at the time these loans were approved and therefore I cant say Mutual 
made an error by approving them. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate Mr L will be disappointed with the 
outcome I have reached. But I hope my explanation has proved useful as to why Ive 
reached the outcome that I have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman