DRN-3299282
The complaint
Mr S complains that he missed the opportunity to benefit from a corporate action because 
Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) failed to tell him about it.
What happened
Mr S had a shareholding I will refer to as E. In December 2020, E announced an open offer 
of new shares at £0.05 each, together with an excess share option. Mr S says he would 
have taken the offer up in full so would have been able to buy 30,815 shares at the offer 
price. He says he would also have invested an additional £50,000. But he says ATS failed to 
contact him.
ATS said it emailed Mr S about the offer. But, after he complained, ATS realised it had not 
recorded the correct email address for Mr S. But it also said it had sent Mr S a letter about 
the offer.
Mr S said he didnt receive the letter. And that the email address was invalid so ATS would 
have received an undelivered receipt. He said this couldnt have been the only email ATS 
had tried to send him, so it should have realised that it held incorrect information about him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought ATS 
had made reasonable efforts to tell him about the corporate action.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
ATS must have known there was a problem with his email address. It doesnt seem that 
ATS had a process to deal with undelivered emails. ATS should be able to answer this 
and find out how many undelivered email messages were received on his account. But 
ATS suggested, only a few weeks after the business was taken over, that the information 
was no longer available.
ATS should not have sent such important information by post at Christmas time, during a 
pandemic, and when the acquisition of its business was underway.
ATS has not provided evidence to prove its letter was delivered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Ive come to the same conclusion at the investigator for the 
following reasons:
ATS communicated the corporate action by email and by post. It held the wrong email 
address for Mr S. ATS hasnt been able to tell us how many emails it attempted to send to 
Mr S and how many undelivered email receipts it received. It doesnt have access to its 
mailboxes now that the business has been acquired. I appreciate Mr Ss concern about this, 
but Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that ATS should reasonably have known when it 
sent the email about Es offer that Mr S wouldnt receive it.
As our investigator explained, we would have expected ATS to monitor any rejected emails if 
this was the only method by which it had contacted consumers about the E share offer. But 
ATS told us it also sent a letter to Mr S. So it wasnt unreasonable that it didnt follow up on a 
rejected email response, because it tried to contact Mr S by another means.
Im satisfied from the evidence that ATS has provided that it sent a letter on 11 December 
2020. I appreciate Mr S did not receive it. But it was correctly addressed and there was no 
obligation on ATS to send the letter by guaranteed delivery.
Ive considered what Mr S says about the circumstances when this letter was sent. He 
mentions Covid, Christmas, and the ATS acquisition by another business. I dont find the 
ATS acquisition impacted the sending of mail. Mail services were experiencing 
unprecedented demand in December 2020, and there were some delays. But Ive not seen 
evidence to suggest there were wide-scale lengthy delays which should have put ATS on 
notice that its letters might not be received. The letter was sent on 11 December and ATS 
required email or phone instructions by 4.30pm on 22 December. I think it was reasonable 
for ATS to conclude that its letter would reach Mr S in time for him to consider its content 
and give his instructions.
I dont dispute what Mr S says  that he didnt receive the letter. But I dont find that was 
because of anything ATS did wrong, so I cant hold it responsible for Mr S not being able to 
participate in the share offer.
Mr S is concerned that the failure of ATS to hold his correct email address is a breach of its 
obligations under Data Protection legislation. I understand Mr S will be contacting the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) with his concerns.
I understand Mr Ss frustration and his strength of feeling on this matter. But I need to be fair 
to both parties and I dont find ATS acted unreasonably or treated him unfairly. Mr S has 
already told us he will be contacting the ICO and hes also told us he will consider taking 
legal action. He can decide to reject this decision and will then be free to pursue his 
complaint through other means, should he wish to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman