DRN-4104417
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service received from Nationwide Building Society when they 
lowered the limit on his credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the credit card account say:
We can change your limit from time to time. If we reduce the limit, we will give 14 days 
notice, unless we dont think its appropriate; if for example we reduce your limit based on an 
assessment of risk or your ability to repay. 
This is what happened with Mr Gs account. Nationwide conducted a review which included 
information from a credit reference agency and decided to reduce the credit limit. In these 
circumstances they also decided to make the reduction before writing to Mr G which the 
terms and conditions allow them to do. 
Mr G is also unhappy about how Nationwide dealt with his complaint and things written in the 
final response letter. As our Investigator explained in these circumstances complaint 
handling isnt something we can look into. So its not my place to comment on how 
Nationwide handled the complaint.
I know Mr G thinks its unfair of Nationwide to make a change to the credit limit without 
letting him know. However the terms and conditions allow for this to happen, and its also 
common practice within the banking industry. 
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mr G fairly and 
reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman
