DRN-4138097
The complaint
Miss R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a
conditional sale agreement (agreement) she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss R acquired a used car costing £7,848 financed by an agreement from
Moneybarn.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss R undertook to make
59 monthly repayments of £240.83. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£14,208.97 at an APR of 30.4%.
Miss R says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks, for example 
requesting from her wage slips, bank statements, details of her existing credit commitments 
and by the undertaking of an income and expenditure analysis. She says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it had performed 
several different checks before agreeing to lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Miss Rs
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Miss Rs declared net monthly income of £2,390 (with a
credit reference agency)
the use of statistical data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to estimate
Miss Rs level of non-discretionary expenditure (including housing, council tax utilities
and vehicle costs)
the use of information (from a credit reference agency) to assess Miss Rs ongoing
monthly borrowing commitments
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Miss Rs existing borrowing was moderate
Miss R had one or more defaults, but the latest of these was more than eight months
old
payments were being made by Miss R towards all defaults registered against her
Miss R had no outstanding county court judgements registered against her
Miss R had one satisfied county judgement registered against her that was 58 
months old
Miss R hadnt been declared insolvent
Miss Rs net monthly income was £2,390 as declared by her
Miss Rs non-discretionary expenditure had been estimated at £963.36
Miss Rs current borrowing commitments were £497 a month
Miss R had a disposable income of £929.64 (being £2,390 less £963.36 less £497)
its lending, at a monthly cost of £240.83, equated to 25.91% of Miss Rs calculated 
net disposable income
Moneybarn also pointed out that Miss R signed to say that her net monthly income was no
less than £2,390 and her non-discretionary expenditure was no more than £963.36.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that in all the circumstances Moneybarn could and should have undertaken 
further checks into Miss Rs financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to 
lend. But he wasnt persuaded, based on what Miss R had provided our service about her 
financial position and personal circumstances in, and immediately prior to, July 2020 that 
further (and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn would have, or should have, caused it not 
to lend.
Miss R didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
I agree with the investigator that in the particular circumstances of this case Moneybarn
didnt carry out proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to Miss R. But I also find myself
agreeing with him that had Moneybarn carried out further (and proportionate) checks it
wouldnt have, nor should it have, concluded that it shouldnt lend to Miss R.
Miss R has provided our service with bank statements for the three month period prior to 
Moneybarn agreeing to lend. 
I know Miss R feels strongly about this particular point, but its not my role to say what further 
(and proportionate) checks Moneybarn should have undertaken. But had it asked Miss R for 
bank statements covering the three month period prior to late-July 2020 and assuming 
Miss R would have supplied Moneybarn with exactly what she has provided our service its 
my understanding that Moneybarn would have discovered (amongst other things) that:
Miss R received credits in respect of salary, tax credits and child benefit of 
approximately £2,400 a month, in line with the £2,390 she said she received each 
month
Miss R received other credits of approximately £1,400 a month 
Miss R had what could be described as non-discretionary expenditure of 
approximately £1,750 a month
And in my view this discovery wouldnt have caused Moneybarn, nor should it have caused 
Moneybarn, to decide not to lend to Miss R.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive reviewed a copy of Miss Rs credit file
(dated May 2022). Im satisfied that this shows that in July 2020 Miss R had a small number 
of defaults (for relatively small amounts) and a small number of accounts in a small amount 
of arrears. But although Im satisfied, like the investigator, this should have prompted 
Moneybarn to have undertaken further (and proportionate checks) into Miss Rs financial 
position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend, I can confirm that Im not 
persuaded that what Miss Rs credit report was likely to have been showing in July 2020 was 
sufficient, in itself, for Moneybarn to have concluded it shouldnt lend.In summary I can confirm (based on what both parties have said and submitted) that Im
satisfied that Moneybarn did nothing wrong when it took the decision to lend to Miss R in
July 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman