DRN-2876908
The complaint
Mr M complained because Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund him for 
a cash machine withdrawal. Mr M said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On 30 December 2019, Mr M tried to make a £300 cash withdrawal from a machine inside 
another bank. His card was returned, but he said no money came out. Mr M went to a 
Halifax branch about 50 yards away, and reported this. 
Halifax gave Mr M a temporary credit while it investigated. It contacted the bank where the 
machine was located. That bank said the cash had been dispensed and the machine 
balanced. So on 24 January, Halifax wrote to tell Mr M it would be re-debiting the temporary 
credit on 3 February, which it did. 
Mr M complained. He asked Halifax to request CCTV footage of the cash machine.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In its final response, it repeated what the other bank 
had said about its cash machine. Halifax also told Mr M it wasnt part of the cash machine 
dispute process to request CCTV.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed asked Halifax several 
times to request CCTV, because the machine hed used was in a great location for clear 
footage of his attempted transaction. He said he couldnt understand why the police didnt 
authorise viewing of the CCTV. Mr M said he felt let down by the police and Halifax.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He explained that occasionally, a cash 
machine can malfunction and money gets stuck, or drawn back into the machine. So hed 
expect Halifax to have contacted the bank where the machine was. Halifax had done this, 
and the other banks information had shown the money had been dispensed successfully. 
And the machine had balanced. He told Mr M that CCTV is only kept for 30 days so there 
would no longer be a record we could check, and in any case its rarely something we rely 
on.
The investigator also said that Mr M had suggested someone else might have taken the 
cash. But if this had happened, it wouldnt mean he could tell Halifax to reimburse Mr M.
Mr M wasnt satisfied. He said he couldnt come to terms with the CCTV only being kept for 
30 days. He asked why the bank would have deleted it, knowing that hed asked for the 
CCTV footage to be kept. He also said that Halifax staff had told him CCTV was kept for 7 
years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill set out what I can and cant consider. Mr M said in his complaint form to us that he 
feels let down by Halifax and the police, because he said the police didnt authorise viewing 
of the CCTV. But this service can only consider complaints against financial organisations, 
not about the police. Id explain, however, that a business doesnt have to involve the police 
when sending CCTV. 
I dont know why Mr M didnt report a problem to the bank where he was inside using their 
cash machine. Instead, he left the branch and went to a Halifax branch. But the bank where 
the disputed transaction took place provided Halifax with the technical evidence from its 
machine. Ive looked at that technical evidence. This shows the disputed transaction at 
14:08, and the machine record that it dispensed six £10 notes and twelve £20 notes. There 
are also records of other people using the cash machine, a few minutes before and after Mr 
M. Ive also seen confirmation that the machine balanced. 
I recognise that Mr M feels strongly that if only the CCTV could have been obtained, it would 
have proved that the machine didnt dispense his cash. Hes said that the machine which he 
used should have clear footage of the transaction. And he said Halifax told him their CCTV is 
kept for seven years. But it would be rare for CCTV to be kept for longer than 30 days. And 
even when it is, it would be very unusual for it to show a clear picture which is closely 
enough focused on the cash machine keyboard and outputs, to show exactly how much was 
or wasnt dispensed.
Here, the technical evidence shows that cash was successfully dispensed, and that the 
machine balanced at the end of the day. In the light of that evidence, I find that its more 
likely than not that the cash was correctly dispensed from the machine.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman