DRN-3485847
The complaint
Miss K has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) registered a marker 
against her at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In December 2019, Miss Ks account was used to receive and pay on some funds. NatWest 
says this involved some kind of fraud in some way. It closed Miss Ks account and registered 
a marker against her at CIFAS. Miss K was a minor at the time.
Miss K discovered the CIFAS marker after having trouble getting or keeping a new account. 
She complained. She explained a purse of hers had been stolen. In it was her card, and a 
sticky note with her PIN and security details on it, which she kept as she was forgetful. She 
says by the time she noticed it was missing and spoke to NatWest, theyd blocked her 
account and wouldnt help her.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently. They asked NatWest for more details on 
why it had accused Miss K of fraud, but NatWest refused to provide this. They upheld the 
complaint, recommending that the marker be removed.
NatWest didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent NatWest and Miss K a provisional decision on 26 April 2022, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted by Miss K, backed up by evidence rigorous enough that it would support this 
being reported to the authorities.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I cannot fairly conclude that this marker should remain.
NatWest has not provided any evidence to show how these payments were authenticated or 
to show that Miss K reasonably knew about them or consented to them. And there is a clear 
way that someone could have got hold of Miss Ks card and security details without her 
permission. So it seems plausible that the transactions happened without Miss Ks consent.
Further, NatWest has not sent us the details of any detailed investigation it did, nor any 
discussions it had with Miss K about this at the time. Indeed, it has declined to even give us 
any evidence to substantiate that anything fraudulent took place at all. This is a point of 
serious concern. CIFAS markers can have severe effects on a customer, and should not be 
added without serious consideration and comprehensive evidence.
So at present, I cannot see that NatWest had reasonable grounds to believe that Miss K had 
committed a crime, nor that it had any substantial evidence to back up such a suspicion  let 
alone evidence rigorous enough for a CIFAS marker.
NatWest has objected to removing the marker as it feels there are questions that our 
adjudicator needed to answer. But NatWest has misunderstood the nature of this case. It 
was for NatWest to investigate things properly before adding this marker. And it is for 
NatWest to provide substantial, rigorous evidence to back up its marker. We are an impartial 
alternative to the courts  our service is not here to represent NatWest. 
Further, the questions NatWest has raised are not very valid. For example NatWest wants 
Miss K to say exactly when the purse was stolen, but she wouldnt know that. Shed only 
know when she noticed it was missing. It asks why she waited to complain, but shes already 
said its because she didnt find out about the CIFAS marker until later. It pointed out that 
Miss K broke its terms and conditions by keeping a record of her PIN, but that is not 
relevant. It could only add this CIFAS marker if it can evidence Miss K tried to commit a 
crime. The marker isnt there to punish customers for not keeping their details safe. NatWest 
also questioned why Miss K didnt tell them about her troubles remembering things before 
the fraud, but again thats not relevant. Miss K was not required to tell NatWest about that, 
and its not a basis for a CIFAS marker.
Looking at things more widely, I note that Miss K did not use this account especially often. 
And at the time of the alleged fraud there was no money in it, so she wouldnt have been 
intending to use it. So it seems quite understandable if she didnt immediately notice that the 
purse with her card in it was missing.
Its also worth bearing in mind that Miss K was only a minor at the time, and should not be 
held to the same standards as an adult with significant financial experience.
By the time of the alleged fraud, Miss Ks account had been open for some years, and had 
been used for normal spending. So Im reasonably satisfied that this was a genuine account, 
and that this is not a case where the account was opened in order to commit fraud.
Miss K never claimed that she was entitled to the disputed funds; she said that she didnt 
know any of the senders or recipients; and she never attempted to keep any of the money. 
And Ive not seen any evidence that she financially benefitted from this in any way.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided so far, I currently think that this 
marker needs to be removed. Of course, if NatWest provides substantial and comprehensive 
evidence to support this marker  and does so before the deadline of this provisional 
decision  then I may come to a different conclusion.
From what I understand, this marker has caused Miss K some serious trouble and upset in 
trying to open or keep a bank account, in trying to sort things out, and in terms of general 
distress. And while NatWest was allowed to close Miss Ks account, I cant see that it gave 
her reasonable notice, which was a real inconvenience for her. So I currently think that 
NatWest needs to put all that right too.I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 May 2022. I granted a further extension to 17 May 2022. Miss K didnt add anything 
further. NatWest sent us notes from their fraud department, which it felt supported the 
marker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has now sent us its fraud notes, showing that another bank reported the credits to 
Miss Ks account as fraudulent. So NatWest has at least now evidenced that it had cause to 
be suspicious or concerned.
However, this was not enough to justify a CIFAS marker. NatWest needed to be able to 
show that Miss K was complicit in attempting fraud or a financial crime  with evidence 
rigorous enough to report this to the authorities.
As I said in the provisional decision, there appears to be a clear method by which someone 
could have accessed Miss Ks account without her permission. So it seems plausible that all 
this happened without Miss Ks consent. And NatWest does not appear to have made any 
detailed investigation, or spoken to Miss K at the time, and it has not evidenced that Miss K 
authenticated or consented to the payments in question. Further, Miss K was a minor, had 
good reason not to immediately notice her card and details were missing, did not claim 
entitlement to the funds, does not seem to have benefitted in any way, and otherwise seems 
to have been using this account genuinely.
So taking everything into account, I still think NatWest needs to remove the marker and 
compensate Miss K for the trouble and upset it caused.
Putting things right
I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
remove the CIFAS marker in dispute; and-
pay Miss K £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ks complaint, and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right in 
the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman