DRN-3863224
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired with credit from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr F entered into a credit agreement with SMF via an intermediary in January 2020 to 
acquire a used car. The credit to buy the car was granted by SMF under a hire purchase 
agreement meaning Mr F would own the car when the credit had been repaid. SMF was the 
owner until that point and Mr F was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the owner of the 
car bought from the dealership, SMF was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £5,250 and the total payable under the agreement was 
£10,700. This was to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £178 with a final payment of 
£188 (all figures rounded). I understand that the car was almost seven years old at the time 
and had travelled 72,853 miles. 
Mr F told SMF in January 2021 that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He complained to 
SMF in June 2021 and explained that hed had to pay for repairs including replacement of 
coil springs and the clutch. SMF didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint but offered him £300 towards 
the cost of the  repairs as a good will gesture which Mr F accepted on 18 June 2021 by 
phone. It sent Mr F a final response to his complaint, following which Mr F raised another 
complaint. Mr F told SMF that hed also replaced the tyres and that there was now an issue 
with the one of the car doors. SMF didnt uphold this complaint either. It sent Mr F a final 
response letter in July 2021. 
In May 2022, Mr F complained again to SMF about issues with the clutch. Mr F said hed 
been in touch with the selling dealership and the clutch had been fixed again as it had been 
within warranty, but there was now a whining noise when in higher gears. Hed been told by 
the dealership that the gear box needed to be fixed. SMF told Mr F that he would need to 
have an independent inspection carried out to prove that the fault had been there when hed 
acquired the car in order for it to take responsibility. SMF sent Mr F a final response on 7 
June 2022. It said it didnt uphold his complaint as it hadnt received any evidence of the 
fault.
Mr F wasnt happy with this response and he referred his complaint to us in August. He said 
that the issue with the gearbox was likely to have been there from the start given the 
problems hes had with the car. As a resolution, Mr F would like SMF to carry out an 
independent inspection of the car and then either take the car back and provide him with a 
full refund of his payments, or exchange the car for another one. Hes more recently said 
that hes happy for SMF to call it quits and take the car back. It hasnt been moved since 
October 2022 due to the clutch failing for third time and the gear box issue.
Having considered the evidence available, one of our investigators concluded that we could 
not investigate Mr Fs complaints about events in 2021 but could look into the events in 
2022. They concluded that the problem with the car relating to the gearbox was as a result of 
wear and tear and not that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to him.
Mr F didnt agree with this recommendation as he didnt consider the problems hes had with 
the car to be normal wear and tear. He said that these included replacing two coil springs, 
the clutch twice and finally the gearbox. Mr F said that the amount of work now required to 
repair the car doesnt make sense financially. He asked for his complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and its come to me. Ive investigated Mr Fs complaint about events 
in 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules including, for example, the 
Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 which implies a term into any contract to supply goods 
that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account the particular circumstances of the goods. The CRA says 
the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. In this complaint, the relevant particulars would include for example the age and 
mileage of the car and the nature of the fault. 
The CRA sets out a persons rights if the goods theyve acquired turn out to be of 
unsatisfactory quality. For example, they can reject the goods within the first 30 days of 
acquiring them. They can also reject goods later on, but only if the supplier fails to repair 
them. 
With this in mind, my considerations begin with whether there was a fault with the car that 
had been there when the credit agreement began? If so, was it something a reasonable 
person would expect given the age and mileage of the car? 
Mr F has provided invoices for the repairs carried out to the car when it was in his 
possession: January 2021  rear coil spring fitted; February 2021  second rear coil spring 
fitted and EGR valve replaced; June 2021  clutch replacement and tyre fitting and 
rebalancing. 
Mr F told us that he had problems with the clutch again in May 2022. He took the car back to 
the dealer to repair as the clutch which had been fitted the previous year was still under 
warranty. The dealer provided an advisory notice dated the 20 June 2022 which stated that 
there was a problem with the gearbox: When working on vehicle after test drive gearbox 
bearings appear to be noisy and gearbox oil is metallic showing prolonged gearbox failure 
that would have happened over time.
When Mr F complained to SMF about the problems with the clutch and gearbox, SMF told 
him in its final response of 7 June 2022 that he would need to provide evidence in order for it 
to progress his complaint. The evidence needed to be from a VAT registered garage and 
include the make, model, registration number and mileage of the vehicle. 
Mr F then sent the aforementioned invoice to SMF who replied in an email on 5 July to say: 
The evidence you have provided does not include the current odometer reading. In addition 
to this it does not confirm that the issue would have been present or developing at the point 
of purchase. Furthermore given the time elapsed since you purchased your vehicle and that 
this current issue has not previously been raised would indicate that the issue was not 
present or developing at the point of sale and in view of this we are unable to assist you.Although the cars mileage hasnt been recorded on the notice, Mr F told us that the cars 
mileage was 88,932 miles in October 2022. The MOT records show the cars recorded 
mileage as 82,833 miles in January 2022, and 77,493 in January 2021. 
Im satisfied that there was an issue with the gearbox in 2022, from what Mr F has told us 
and SMF and the notice hes provided. However, as an independent inspection wasnt 
carried out on the car to investigate this issue, it is difficult to now determine whether or not 
that the fault was present when Mr F acquired the car. When Mr F complained to SMF in 
July 2022, he said that The car at the time of purchasing as far as I could tell was ok it all 
starting going wrong from when the 12 months warranty finished. Even if I were to conclude 
that the car was faulty from the onset of the agreement, it doesnt automatically follow that 
the car was therefore of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose. The fault could have been 
as a result of normal wear and tear and not unexpected for the car in question. 
The car was seven years old and had travelled almost 73,000 miles when Mr F acquired it. I 
think its fair to say that this car might have needed repair or maintenance work sooner than 
a newer or less used model. From what Mr F told us he had driven the car almost 10,000 
miles from when he acquired the car to January 2022 and a further 6,000 miles by October 
2022. The dealers description of the problem was something which would have occurred 
over time. Altogether, Ive concluded that the gearbox issue was most likely due to wear and 
tear. And, given the age and mileage of the car, I cant say its a fault which is wholly 
unexpected and outside the likely range of issues such a car might have.  
Mr F has told us that he would like to return the car to SMF for a refund or an exchange. He 
feels that repairing the car would cost more than its worth. Mr F told us that hes already 
spent £3,000 keeping the car maintained which has impacted on his finances. Hes also 
shared that he feels unsafe when driving the car and it is having a huge impact on his mental 
health. 
I am sorry that this matter has had such an impact on Mr F and also that I cant provide the 
outcome he was hoping for. As Ive explained above, I havent found that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied to him. This means that Mr F doesnt have recourse to 
the options available to him under the CRA such as having the car repaired by SMF at no 
cost to him or rejecting the car if that repair doesnt solve the problem. 
I would remind SMF about its obligation to treat Mr F fairly and with forbearance and due 
consideration if he is experiencing financial difficulty at this time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint against Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited and dont require it to take any action in this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman