DRN-1680637
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) unfairly declined his 
income protection claims. To put things right, Mr S wants LV to accept and pay his claims.
What happened
Mr S had a number of income protector and permanent health insurance policies with LV. 
Those policies have since expired, but they were designed to provide a benefit if Mr S 
became incapacitated and unable to work. 
Within Mr Ss income protector policies, incapacity was defined as:
By incapacity (or incapacitated) we mean that because of sickness or accident you are 
totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupations and you are not 
doing any other work.  Essential duties are those that duties which cannot reasonably be 
omitted without affecting your ability to carry out your normal occupation.  If you are 
unemployed at the start of a period of incapacity, then by incapacity we mean that because 
of sickness or accident you are unable to go out of doors without help.
And within Mr Ss permanent health policies, incapacity was defined as:
Incapacity means that, because of sickness or accident, the Insured is unable to carry out 
any of the duties of the Ordinary Occupation stated in the Schedule. If at the onset of 
sickness or on an accident happening the Insured is following no occupation, incapacity will 
mean that the Insured is confined to the home, a hospital or nursing home by reason of 
sickness ot accident."
Mr S submitted an income protection claim in 2013 and said hed been unable to work since 
that January. But LV declined the claim, and said Mr S hadnt demonstrated that he was 
incapacitated in line with the terms and conditions of his polices. 
Mr S went on to make further retrospective claims for income protection; claiming hed also 
been unable to work in 2010 and then again in 2008. But LV said Mr S hadnt shown that he 
was incapacitated in line with the terms and conditions of his policies for those time periods 
either.
Unhappy with LVs decision, Mr S approached this service and said he couldnt understand 
why the insurer wasnt paying his claims. To support his position, Mr S provided us with 
documentation which included a letter from his GP and his accountant, and his tax returns 
too.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. But he didnt think LV had acted 
unreasonably. Our investigator said he could see that Mr S had been unwell, and he wished 
him well in relation to that. But he didnt think LV had acted unreasonably in declining the 
claims that Mr S had made, because he agreed that the available evidence didnt 
demonstrate that Mr S had been incapacitated as required by the policy terms.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld. But Mr S disagreed and 
said he had been both unemployed at the time. So as no agreement was reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for largely the same reasons as our investigator, I wont be upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, LV is required to assess claims both promptly 
and fairly, and it mustnt reject them unreasonably. 
As I set out above, the terms and conditions of both Mr Ss income protector and permanent 
health insurance policies define what is meant by incapacitated. So it wouldnt have been 
enough for Mr S to have just been unwell and/or or unemployed in order to receive a benefit 
from his policies. He would have needed to be incapacitated in line with the policy definitions 
cited above.
For ease, Ive set out Mr Ss claims in the same order in which our investigator considered 
them.
The claim for 2013 
When Mr S made his first claim, he said hed been unable to work since January 2013.
The available evidence relating to Mr S finances in this case show that he hadnt earned any 
income since the tax year ending April 2011. So, at the point of his initial claim, Mr S would 
have been considered unemployed and would have needed to demonstrate incapacity in line 
with the following parts of the policy definitions:
If you are unemployed at the start of a period of incapacity, then by incapacity we mean that 
because of sickness or accident you are unable to go out of doors without help. (Income 
protector policy)
If at the onset of sickness or on an accident happening the Insured is following no 
occupation, incapacity will mean that the Insured is confined to the home, a hospital or 
nursing home by reason of sickness or accident.(Permanent health insurance policy)
However, the medical evidence in this case doesnt demonstrate that Mr S was unable to go 
out of doors without help during the above time frame. Nor does it demonstrate that Mr S 
was confined to the home, a hospital or a nursing home during that time either. So in line 
with the applicable terms and conditions, I cant fairly conclude that LV acted unreasonably 
in declining this claim. 
The claim for 2010
Following his initial claim, Mr S retrospectively claimed for further income protection and said 
hed also been unable to work since 2010. The available evidence in relation to Mr Ss 
finances from that time showed that hed earned some income between 2010 and 2011. And 
so on this occasion, Mr S would have needed to demonstrate that he was incapacitated in 
line with the following:By incapacity (or incapacitated) we mean that because of sickness or accident you are 
totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupations and you are not 
doing any other workEssential duties are those that duties which cannot reasonably be 
omitted without affecting your ability to carry out your normal occupation. 
And/or:
Incapacity means that, because of sickness or accident, the Insured is unable to carry out 
any of the duties of the Ordinary Occupation stated in the Schedule." 
But again, the available evidence in this case, which includes Mr Ss GP records, doesnt 
corroborate Mr Ss position and makes no reference to him being unable to work since 2010. 
So I dont think that Mr S has demonstrated that he was incapacitated those definitions 
either. And so, I cant fairly conclude that LV acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ss claim 
here either. 
The claim for 2008
Mr S also retrospectively claimed for income protection stating that hed been unable to work 
since 2008.  
As our investigator explained, Mr S had statements which showed his business had received 
income between 2008 and 2009. And his tax returns up until 2010 also showed hed been 
working. However, the policies that Mr S had were designed to provide him with a benefit in 
the event that illness or injury rendered him incapacitated and unable to work. So, as Mr S 
appeared to have been receiving an income  or, working  during this time, he wouldnt 
have been eligible for income protection. 
I am aware that Mr Ss GP has provided more recent evidence which says Mr S had been 
unable to work since 2011, and I acknowledge why Mr S says this should demonstrate his 
position in view of the wider medical evidence available in this case too. But as I set out 
above, it isnt enough for Mr S to have been unwell and unable to work here. In order to 
satisfy the terms and conditions of his policy, he needed to have been incapacitated as per 
the policy definitions.
Based on review of this case, there is no medical evidence which demonstrates that Mr S 
was incapacitated the way his policy would have required him to be in order to receive 
benefit. And for clarity, that would have been as follows:
By incapacity (or incapacitated) we mean that because of sickness or accident you are 
totally unable to carry out the essential duties of your normal occupations and you are not 
doing any other work.  Essential duties are those that duties which cannot reasonably be 
omitted without affecting your ability to carry out your normal occupation.  If you are 
unemployed at the start of a period of incapacity, then by incapacity we mean that because 
of sickness or accident you are unable to go out of doors without help.
And/or:
Incapacity means that, because of sickness or accident, the Insured is unable to carry out 
any of the duties of the Ordinary Occupation stated in the Schedule. If at the onset of 
sickness or on an accident happening the Insured is following no occupation, incapacity will 
mean that the Insured is confined to the home, a hospital or nursing home by reason of 
sickness or accident."So whilst I understand that Mr S feels hes sufficiently demonstrated his position, the matter 
Ive had to decide here isnt whether he was unwell or unemployed  its whether LV acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining his claims; considering the specific terms of his policies. 
And based on the available evidence in this case and for the reasons given above, Im not 
persuaded that Mr S has demonstrated he was incapacitated as per the terms of his policies. 
So I am not persuaded that LV acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ss claims and 
I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman