The complaint
Mrs F says Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market (Quid Market), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs F says she had a poor credit record and a gambling addiction. She says Quid 
Market should have carried out more checks before it lent to her.        
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Quid Market provided to Mrs F between 
February 2018 and March 2019. Mrs Fs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 09/02/2018 27/07/2018 6    £400.00 £122.21
2 22/08/2018 28/02/2019 6    £400.00 £133.32
3 01/03/2019 Outstanding* 6 £1,000.00 £319.26
*Mrs F has told us that since bringing her complaint to this service she has fully repaid loan
three.
Our adjudicator initially didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint but after Mrs F provided further 
information about her financial circumstances our adjudicator thought that loan three 
shouldnt have been given. This was because if Quid Market had carried out proportionate 
checks it would have seen that Mrs F spent a lot of her income on gambling on-line and 
wouldnt be able to sustainably make the loan repayments. 
Quid Market didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said Mrs F hadnt shown any financial 
difficulty when repaying the earlier loans so there was nothing to suggest it should have 
carried out further checks before agreeing to loan three. It had also asked Mrs F, as part of 
the application process, if she gambled, and she replied that she did not. 
Quid Markets response didnt change the adjudicators opinion, so it asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
DRN-1829933complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quid Market was required to establish 
whether Mrs F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mrs F didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mrs F had with Quid Market. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Fs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. When Mrs F returned for further borrowing at loan three, she had repaid loan two the day 
before but was now looking to borrow more than double the amount of her two previous 
loans. And she had now been borrowing from Quid Market for over a year, so I dont think 
this borrowing was still in the early stages of her relationship with Quid Market.
I think that these factors should have caused Quid Market to look to build a bigger picture of 
Mrs Fs financial circumstances to verify what it knew about her and the information she had 
given. 
It could have asked Mrs F for additional evidence of her income and outgoings which it could 
have gathered from her bank statements, pay slips or copies of any bill as examples. And I 
think if it had done so, it would have seen Mrs F was spending a significant amount of her 
income on on-line gambling websites. 
Quid Market has told us it had asked Mrs F if she was involved in gambling, and she 
responded that she wasnt. But I note from her complaint form that Mrs F says she was 
ashamed and embarrassed by her addiction and that she hid it for many years. So, I dont 
find it surprising that what she told Quid Market wasnt a true reflection of her actual financial 
circumstances.
But as Ive said above, because of the length of the borrowing relationship at loan three, the 
fact that loan two was repaid the day before and loan three was for a much larger amount 
than previously borrowed, I think Quid Market should have carried out more checks which 
were proportionate to the borrowing. If it had carried out those checks then I think it should 
have led Quid Market to the conclusion that the loan repayments were most likely to be 
unsustainable for Mrs F. So, I dont think it should have given loan three to Mrs F. 
So, like the adjudicator, Im upholding the complaint about loan three and Quid Market 
should put things right.
Putting things right  what Quid Market needs to do 
 
refund all interest and charges Mrs F paid on loan three;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan three from Mrs Fs credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quid Market to take off tax from this interest. Quid 
Market must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Mrs F has told us loan three has been repaid in full but if it remains outstanding then Quid 
Market can refer back to me if it needs guidance on how to calculate redress under those 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Stagemount Limited 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman