DRN-3622355
The complaint
Miss G complains about the repairs that Aviva Insurance Limited made to her car after a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy and that it didnt return her car to her when she 
asked. She wants £2,000 compensation for her losses. 
What happened
Miss Gs car had minor damage and she made a claim on her policy. Aviva took her car to 
an approved garage for repairs, but it said it wouldnt be able to obtain needed parts from the 
manufacturer for some time. Miss G told Aviva she wanted her car returned, but this wasnt 
actioned. Instead, the garage located suitable parts online and repaired the car. 
Miss G was unhappy with this as she thought the parts werent genuine and the car may be 
unsafe to drive and hard to sell. Aviva agreed it should have returned the car when Miss G 
asked. And it offered her £200 compensation for this communication error. But Miss G 
remained unhappy.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been a communication error. But he thought Avivas offer of compensation for this was 
fair and reasonable. He thought Aviva was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to 
repair the car using non-manufacturers part. He didnt see evidence that the repair had been 
a botched job or that the car was unsafe to drive. He thought Miss G was required to pay 
the policy excess to release her car from the garage and that it was her decision to delay 
selling her car.
Miss G replied that shed refused to pay her excess to the garage, not to Aviva. She said she 
hadnt agreed for the non-genuine part to be used. Miss G said that she would obtain a 
quote from a dealers garage to assess the repairs that had been carried out and whether 
the replacement parts were of similar standard. She wanted Aviva to reimburse this cost. 
She thought Aviva had breached its contract with her and she wanted her premium 
refunded. She also wanted compensation for her stress and lost earnings. 
Aviva replied that all the parts used except for the radiator were genuine. It said the radiator 
had been sourced online to avoid delay and this had been agreed with Miss G. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has agreed that it made a mistake when it didnt pass on a message from Miss G for 
the garage to return her car to her before repairs began. And I think Miss G quite clearly 
asked for her car to be returned and I think Aviva had agreed to do this. But it didnt pass the 
message on. And so the repairs went ahead and were completed.
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
To put things right, Miss G wants Aviva to pay for any non-genuine parts to be removed from 
her car and replaced with genuine ones. But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable for 
three reasons:
1. The policys terms and conditions provide for the use of non-manufacturer parts.
2. From what I can see, the garage discussed repairing the radiator with Miss G and she 
wanted it replaced. As it would take five or more weeks for the part to arrive from the 
manufacturer, it was agreed between the parties to obtain one from an online supplier. 
Miss G doesnt recollect this, but I think this is supported by the garages notes and by 
her own phone recording where she told Aviva that she didnt want to wait for the part 
from overseas but wanted an alternative.
3. Miss G hasnt provided us with the report on the parts that she said she would obtain. So 
I havent seen any evidence that the non-genuine part is sub-standard or that there has 
been a botched job that requires rectification.
So Miss G has had her car repaired. I think she agreed to this when her car was taken for 
repairs. Miss G did have the option to use her own garage for the repairs. But Aviva 
explained that once the parts were ordered then the repairs would go ahead. I think the parts 
used were in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And I havent seen any expert 
engineering evidence to show that the repairs require rectification. 
Miss G also wanted £2,000 compensation for the depreciation in the cars value. But I dont 
think this would be fair or reasonable for the following reasons:
1. Miss G said she intended to sell the car, so the issue of genuine or non-genuine parts 
isnt relevant. In any case, the repairs are guaranteed. 
2. Miss G said she thought the car was unsafe and so didnt drive it. But Ive seen no expert 
engineering evidence to show this. And so I think this was Miss Gs decision. 
3. Miss G didnt collect her car from the garage for five months after it was repaired. Miss G 
said the reason was that she wouldnt pay her policy excess to the garage. But I cant 
say that its an unusual request to ask a consumer to pay the repairer the policy excess 
to release their car. 
So I cant say that Aviva was responsible for Miss G not collecting her car from the garage or 
not driving it. And so I dont think Aviva is responsible for any depreciation in the cars value 
or that it needs to compensate Miss G for this.
Miss G thought Aviva should have written her car off instead of repairing it. But I cant see 
that she has complained to Aviva about this and allowed it a chance to respond, so I cant 
consider that concern further here. 
Miss G thinks Aviva breached its contract with her when it didnt return her car as she asked. 
But I cant see where this is stated in her policy. Instead, I think Aviva provided poor service 
in not passing on the message to return her car. Aviva offered Miss G £200 compensation 
for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for 
the impact of this level of service. I dont require Aviva to pay Miss G further compensation. 
And, as the policy has been used, I dont require Aviva to refund any premium.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman