DRN-2979749
The complaint
Mr E complains about service he received from Metro Bank PLC. He told us that it wouldnt
accept a large cash deposit, and Metros employees were rude to him.
What happened
Mr E told us that he went to a branch of Metro to pay in a large amount of money in cash.
Hed been paid this for a vehicle he sold. He said the branch was supposed to be open until
8pm, and it has a drive through which is open 24 hours. But when he got there it was shut.
Mr E said that Metros staff were rude to him. They gestured through the closed door, he
thought that they could easily have opened the door and spoken to him. He managed to get
someone to respond to him, but they wouldnt let him ask a question. He also said that the
drive through was not staffed, although the lights were on. He waited, but they were then
switched off. Mr E said that meant he was still carrying a large amount of cash.
Mr E went back the next day to pay in his cash, and the cashier asked him to prove where
the money had come from. He said he couldnt, as he didnt have the documents with him to
prove the vehicle sale. Mr E said that the cashier told him that Metro wouldnt take the cash,
and no bank would without proof. Mr E asked the manager, but he got the same response.
Mr E said that he was again very worried that he was still carrying a large amount of cash.
He got the documents to prove hed sold his vehicle, and went to a different bank where he
also has an account. Mr E said that the money was accepted there with no questions, and
that bank told him it wouldnt let a customer leave the bank with so much cash, in case they
were robbed.
Mr E said that he was shocked by how hed been treated by Metro, and he wanted it to
explain why hed been treated like this. Mr E said hed complained, and he was very
unhappy with how Metro had handled his complaint. The letter he received encouraged him
to contact a specific person at Metro if he wanted to discuss the complaint further, but he
said that although he rang and left messages, this person didnt ring him back.
Mr E wanted our service to look into this.
Metro didnt think it had done anything wrong. It sent us the letter it had written to Mr E, in
response to his complaint, and provided a considerable amount of additional information on
what had happened, and why.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that banks will
sometimes ask for proof of where the money has come from, when someones making a
large cash deposit. He noted that Metros terms and conditions do say that it can ask for
documents to show where money came from, or refuse to accept a payment into an account.
Our investigator also said that he was unable to comment on Mr Es complaint about how he
was treated in the branch without any supporting evidence.
Our investigator didnt think Metro had to do any more.
Mr E wanted us to look into how Metro had responded to his complaint too. He said it hadnt
returned his calls, and the letter it sent ignored half of his complaint to it. He also wanted us
to get the CCTV from the branch for the day when he visited, so we could see that Metro
had been rude to him.
Our investigator didnt change his mind, and because no agreement had been reached, this
case was then passed to me to review and finalise.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Having considered this case carefully, I dont think that Metro did anything wrong on 
the two occasions that Mr E visited the branch. Ill explain why I think that below.
But I do think that Metro has unfortunately failed to respond properly and fully to Mr 
E, which has meant that hes needed to come to our service. I think thats all part of 
resolving Mr Es original concerns about the banking service he received, so I dont 
think that this is something our service is unable to consider. Ill explain why I think 
that too.
poor service
Mr E was offended by how Metros staff responded to him when he went to the 
branch after it was closed. I understand he may not have realised that the opening 
hours of this branch had changed due to the pandemic, and that the drive-through 
isnt open 24 hours, its hours mirror those of the branch.
Mr E wanted us to view the CCTV for that day, so we could see how he was treated. 
But his complaint is that Metro staff gestured to him, and wouldnt talk to him, 
although they could easily have opened the door. I dont think that watching CCTV 
for this day is likely to help to resolve this. Thats because the branch staff have told 
us they were closing up at the time. That can involve moving potentially very large 
amounts of money around inside the branch, and its a time when the branch itself 
can be particularly vulnerable.
I would not expect a branch to open the doors at this time, or its staff to be able to 
engage with someone who wants to ask questions. Thats because its staff arent 
able to tell the difference between someone like Mr E, who just wanted some help 
with his banking, and someone whose purposes are altogether different. So, 
although I understand Mr Es view, that the staff could easily have taken a few 
moments to deal with his questions, I wouldnt expect them to do that, largely for 
safety reasons.
I do, though, think that Mr Es original complaint included his concerns about how he 
was treated at the branch. And I cant see that Metros response addresses this. I 
think it wouldve been helpful if Metro had told Mr E the same things it has now told 
us, including that the opening hours for the drive-through mirror those of the branch, 
and that its provided feedback to the staff in the branch, to seek to avoid a 
misunderstanding like this happening again.
deposit refusedMr E also said that he was turned away the next day when he tried to make a large 
cash deposit. Metro has told us it did this in order to comply with anti-money 
laundering rules that govern it. I know Mr E was later able to deposit his money 
elsewhere, but Metro has pointed out that different businesses may have a different 
risk appetite.
I know Mr E thinks that Metro has made a poor decision, and that it should also 
consider how he was presented on the day. But again, I dont think that this is likely 
to make a difference. I dont think its unreasonable for Metro to ask a customer to 
show it the source of a large amount of cash that is paid into a customers account. 
This is in line with its own terms, and with overarching legislation on money 
laundering. This legislation isnt based on the appearance of the customer.
But again, I think that Metro has recognised in its complaint response letter that Mr E 
wanted to know why he was turned away, and it just hasnt explained this to him. It 
said in its letter 
With regards to the lack of reasons provided, we are unfortunately unable to 
provide this information over the telephone. If you would like further 
information regarding this, you will need to make a request in writing to our 
head office.
I also note that Mr E has told us that when he contacted Metro to try to discuss the 
letter, it didnt respond to him.
I dont think it was helpful for Metro to suggest that Mr E needed to write to it again to 
ask why it had turned down his deposit, when hed already raised a complaint about 
this. I think that the explanation Metro has provided to us shouldve been offered to 
Mr E in Metros letter. Mr E shouldnt have needed to write or call again, just to ask 
about things which hed already asked about in his complaint, and which Metro 
hadnt offered any response to.
what I think Metro should do
Our investigator didnt think we could consider how Metro responded to Mr Es 
complaint. And it is right to say that our service isnt always able to deal with 
complaints that are solely about how a business has handled someones complaint to 
it.
But where, as here, its part of how the original issues with Mr Es banking were 
being resolved, I do think we are able to consider it. And I think that the letter Mr E 
was sent represents poor service on the part of Metro. It didnt appear to have looked 
into some of the issues he wanted it to consider. 
So I think that Metro should pay Mr E £100 to make up for this, in particular for the 
inconvenience of Mr E needing to bring his complaint to us just to get answers that 
Metro couldve given him in its complaint response letter.
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side replied.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr E £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman