DRN-3370671
The complaint
Mr J feels that Lloyds Bank Plc has not treated him fairly, he says he is unable to repay the 
overdraft on his current account and is unhappy with how Lloyds has responded to his 
concerns. 
What happened
Mr J had a current account with Lloyds. In 2016 that account went into an overdrawn 
position. Mr Js family members contacted Lloyds at that time and explained that Mr J was in 
prison so direct debits on the account were cancelled and ultimately the account was closed 
and passed to the banks collections department in November 2016.
Mr J says he wrote to Lloyds several times over the years asking for help with his overdrawn 
balance, but received no response so in early 2020 he raised a complaint about how he had 
been treated.
Lloyds looked at Mr Js complaint, it explained that it had previously written to him to confirm 
that it would put a hold on any collections activity until Mr J was released from prison. Lloyds 
also explained that, although it believed the overdrawn balance of the account to be 
legitimate, it would nonetheless refund all the charges applied to Mr Js account from when it 
was last used in August 2016 in light of his individual circumstances. Lloyds confirmed that 
Mr Js remaining overdrawn balance after this refund would be £271.13. Lloyds also said 
that it would consider writing off the remaining debt if Mr J could provide medical records as 
Mr J had said he suffered with a long term health condition which would affect his ability to 
ever repay the balance owed on his account.
Mr J remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Js concerns, he explained that he thought Lloyds 
had treated Mr J fairly. Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about charges applied to overdrafts and 
how banks should respond to financial difficulties - including the key rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website. And Ive thought about this when deciding Mr Js 
complaint. 
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate that Mr J feels the fairest resolution here would be for Lloyds to write off the 
balance of his account, but that is not something that we would generally tell a bank to 
do. And Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done here is a fair approach in all the 
circumstances. It has refunded all the charges applied to Mr Js debt since he stopped 
using the account in August 2016 and has agreed to stop any further collections activity 
until Mr J is released in 2026. And Lloyds has said it will consider writing off the 
remaining balance if Mr J can provide medical records to show what medical condition he 
suffers with.
I appreciate that Mr J has sent evidence to show what medication he is on, but I dont 
think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to want more detailed medical records to show why 
being on this medication means Mr J is unable to ever repay his overdraft. The bank has 
a high bar for writing off a legitimately owed debt, and I dont think that is unfair.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr J, but Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt 
treated him unfairly, and so I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman