DRN-3341638
The complaint
Miss L complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo shouldnt have
allowed her to be a guarantor for two loans.
What happened
In December 2018, Miss L agreed to stand as a guarantor for a loan of £2,000 that Ms P had
with Trusttwo. The loan was to be repaid over 36 months with a monthly repayment of
£97.63. In April 2019, Miss L agreed to stand as a guarantor on a  top up loan for Ms P
again with Trusttwo this time for £10,000 over 60 months with a monthly repayment of
£395.52.
When Ms P stopped making the repayments, Miss L as the guarantor was asked to step in
to meet the monthly commitment. Miss L said shed been coerced by Ms P when she was in
a vulnerable situation into agreeing to be the guarantor. She said shed her own financial
commitments and had been persuaded by Ms P to say she lived with her parents when
shed recently moved into her own home. She complained to Trusttwo.
Trusttwo said theyd checked Miss Ls credit file and verified her income and bank details.
Theyd also carried out an affordability assessment and said the loans were affordable and
sustainable for Miss L as the guarantor. Miss L wasnt happy with Trusttwos response and
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Trusttwo had done anything wrong in
allowing Miss L to act as a guarantor on the loans. He said hed listened to the calls and
there wasnt any evidence of coercion. Miss L disagreed and asked for the
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Trusttwo had responsibility for ensuring that the loan repayments would be affordable and
sustainable for Miss L before agreeing that she could be the guarantor for them. This meant
that Trusttwo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether
Miss L could afford to make all the loan payments in the event she had to.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Theres no set list for what
reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders to consider the specific
circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check
will generally depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and
whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of
credit that they would be guaranteeing. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended
period).
So, Ive considered whether Trusttwo did what they needed to before agreeing to Miss L
being a guarantor for either or both of the loans.
Loan One.
In December 2018, Miss L was asked to be a guarantor for Ms P. The loan was for £2,000
payable over 36 months with a monthly repayment of £97.63. Trusttwo carried out an
affordability assessment for both Ms P and Miss L. I can see from their assessment for Miss
L that it showed her to be living with parents, and the credit file check confirmed the address
Miss L had given. It also showed several other people with the same surname at the
address, and that shed lived there since 2005. So, I dont think Trusttwo had any reason to
doubt what Miss L had told them.
Trusttwos affordability assessment showed Miss L had a monthly salary of £1300 and after
allowing for outgoings, shed a disposable income of £636.36. They also showed theyd
verified Miss Ls salary, her bank details and checked her credit file.
From the checks made by Trusttwo I couldnt see any evidence that would appear to
contradict any of the information they had, and so Im persuaded it was reasonable for them
to rely on it. So, I dont think Trusttwo acted irresponsibly in agreeing to Miss L being the
guarantor for this loan.
Loan Two
Loan Two was a top up loan, and the amount borrowed - £10,000, the period of repayment
 60 months and the monthly repayment amount - £395.52 all showed a marked increase in
lending and indebtedness. As outlined above these factors I think should have meant
TrustTwo were more thorough in the checks they did. I can also see from their affordability
assessment that they were also aware of another guarantor loan for £5,000 that had recently
been taken out with another company. Further evidence of an increased indebtedness for
Miss L.
As I mentioned there isnt a set list of checks that Trusttwo should carry out. But I think in
this instance to gain an understanding of Miss Ls financial situation a check of her bank
statements for the three months prior to the loan could have been asked for.
Miss L has provided her bank statements to us for January, February and March 2019. The
top up loan was agreed to in April 2019. Having reviewed the statements I think its clear
that Miss L wasnt living with parents as she was paying £450 for landlord services, and
£125.25 for council tax. There is also evidence of weekly payments to utility companies,
spending on DIY, carpets and food.
The statements show Miss L had an average monthly salary of £1230, Trusttwo hadcalculated for this loan that Miss L had a monthly salary of around £1408, so £178 more than
was evident on her bank statements. Trusttwo had calculated Miss L had a disposable
income of £426.80 after the repayment for the new loan - £395.52 was accounted for. But
Trusttwo had made no allowance for Miss L paying any rent or board  as shed told them
she lived with her parents. Again, Miss Ls credit file showed her to be at the same address
as when Trusttwo checked for the first loan. But this wasnt correct, and if Trusttwo had done
a more thorough check as I would have expected them to, theyd have seen that she did
have household expenditure. And that her commitment to these would have left her without
any disposable income. So, I dont think Miss L could afford to step in as a guarantor for this
loan. And Trusttwo acted irresponsibly in agreeing to her guaranteeing the loan.
Coersion
Miss L has said she was forced into being the guarantor by Ms P. But Ive listened to calls
shed with Trusttwo. The call where her financial situation was discussed, although the agent
spoke quite quickly, he does go through several questions regarding Miss Ls circumstances,
including where she was living. He also reiterates that shed need to step in to cover the
repayments if Ms P failed to do so. He also asked how long Miss L had known Ms P for, and
she replied 10 years. As Miss L answers the questions Im persuaded without any hesitation
or concern, I dont think there was anything that should have raised concerns to Trusttwo
about Miss Ls agreement to be a guarantor.
Putting things right
Neither party asked for any further comments or information to be considered. So I uphold 
this complaint for Loan Two. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo to:
remove Miss Ls name from the Loan Two agreement;
repay to her any payments she has already made to them towards Loan Two;
pay interest at 8% simple on those payments from date of payment to date of
settlement; and
remove any adverse information from Miss Ls credit file in relation to Loan Two.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo to take
off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo must give Miss L a
certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo to 
put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman