DRN-3362545
The complaint
Mrs R complains that because she doesnt have a mobile phone, shes not able to fully 
access and operate her Santander UK Plc bank accounts online. As one of those accounts 
is held jointly with Mr R, weve obtained his consent to us looking into this complaint, but Ill 
refer to Mrs R throughout as its her online banking and electronic payments service the 
complaint is about.
What happened
In early 2020 Mrs R logged into online banking and tried to add a new payee to make an 
electronic payment to. When she submitted the new payees details the system told her a 
one-time passcode (OTP) had been sent to her old mobile phone number to authenticate the 
change. As Mrs R no longer owned a mobile phone, she contacted Santander to remove the 
number and replace it with her landline. Santander told her they couldnt remove the mobile 
phone number from her account without replacing it with another.
Mrs R complained. She was concerned she needed a mobile phone to complete payments 
through online banking, and that an OTP had gone to a mobile phone number she no longer 
owned.
Santander firstly sought to reassure Mrs R that the OTP which had been sent to her old 
mobile phone number wasnt a risk to her account. They then explained OTPs were part of 
their new security process and had been implemented in response to an EU Directive to 
ensure account safety. They said she could still manage her account without a mobile 
phone through telephone or branch banking. They also confirmed they couldnt amend the 
mobile phone number linked to her account unless she replaced it with a new one. 
Santander did offer to register an email address on the account to receive OTPs, but said 
these would have limited application.
When Mrs R brought her complaint to this service, she said she has no objection to 
authentication by OTP and agrees that online security is of vital importance. But she objects 
to being told she must have a mobile phone in order to operate her accounts fully. She said:
I feel I am being disadvantaged and discriminated against because I do not have a 
mobile phone  The outcome I am hoping for is to be able to operate my Santander 
accounts, without a mobile phone, as easily and efficiently as anyone else.
What Santander told us
Santander told us theyd added two-factor or strong customer authentication (SCA) to the 
process for customers accessing their online banking in compliance with EU regulations. 
They said where customers have no SMS text message facility (mobile phone) they can now 
send OTPs to email for the online banking log in stage, but this would not apply to any other 
transactions within online banking (such as setting up new payees). Santander showed us 
that Mrs R had been registered for email OTPs in July 2020.
Mrs Rs thoughts on email OTPs
Our investigator spoke with Mrs R about whether email OTPs had resolved her complaint. 
Mrs R said this didnt provide a complete solution because, although she could now log in to 
online banking without a mobile phone, she was still unable to set up new payees online or 
make other changes on her account. Mrs R told us that having to call to set up a new payee 
negates the ease and convenience of online banking.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Mrs Rs complaint. Whilst he didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly by introducing SCA  an important regulatory measure designed to protect both 
Santander and customers from fraud  he said Santander shouldve come up with 
authentication methods that dont rely on mobile phones. Particularly as the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) had been clear that businesses should provide authentication 
methods that do not rely on mobile phones to cater for consumers who will not have or wont 
want to use a mobile phone.
He said branch and telephone banking are alternatives to online banking, not alternatives to 
strongly authenticating customers who want to use online banking or make online payments. 
So, he didnt think Santander had acted fairly. He also said it was unreasonable of 
Santander not to remove Mrs Rs old mobile phone number when shed asked.
To put things right he said Santander should pay Mrs R £150 compensation to reflect the 
trouble shes had adding new payees to her account, and the concern she was caused by 
OTPs being sent to an old mobile phone number. He also said Santander should develop 
strong customer authentication solutions that dont rely on mobile phones, and remove her 
old mobile number from her account.
Responses to the view
Mrs R accepted this outcome but added to her complaint that it had now become necessary 
to receive an OTP to mobile phone when using her debit card online. She said shed recently 
had to abandon an online card payment because she has no mobile phone to receive OTPs 
to.
Santander removed Mrs Rs old mobile number from her account. They also offered to add 
an exemption to prevent interruption when she uses her debit card for online shopping. They 
said this would be until they could offer an alternative authentication option that she has 
access to.
However, Santander didnt agree to pay the £150 compensation recommended by the 
investigator and said they wouldnt change their process for online payments to new payees 
or for online payments to existing payees which hit a fraud prevention rule. For those 
transactions, they said Mrs R would still need to authenticate by receiving an OTP to mobile 
phone or make the payment using telephone or branch banking. They explained they have a 
dedicated OTP support line via which Mrs R can set up a new payee (a trusted beneficiary) 
and then continue her online banking journey. So, they said, Mrs R had a viable alternative 
to using a mobile phone for authentication. They also said setting up new payees should 
only be a small part of Mrs Rs interaction with online banking.
Santander also told us that for these transactions thered been no change in their process; 
the ability to set up new payees online without a mobile phone was not a service that had 
been available before their implementation of SCA. They said customers had been required 
to authenticate payments to new payees with an OTP to mobile phone since at least 2014.Mrs R didnt think Santanders response went far enough or resolved her complaint because 
she still couldnt operate her account fully online without a mobile phone. She said its not 
just the setting up of new payees she cant do online without a mobile phone. Shes also 
found she cant make changes to her personal or contact details without receiving an OTP to 
a mobile phone.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
A further response from Santander  February 2022
While I was reviewing Mrs Rs complaint our service kept talking with Santander about their 
approach to SCA for customers who dont have or cant use mobile phones to authenticate. 
Following these discussions, which focussed on complaints with similar features to Mrs Rs 
rather than Mrs Rs complaint specifically, Santanders approach to SCA evolved further. 
Santander let us know that they are in the process of developing an OTP via email (email 
OTP) solution for customers who are unable to use a mobile phone or who dont have one. 
This method of strong customer authentication will be available for Mrs R to use when she 
wants to set up a new payee in online banking.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022. I began by setting out the 
considerations I thought relevant to my decision. I wrote:
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. So, Ill start 
by setting out what Ive identified as the relevant considerations to deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in this case.
Santanders online banking terms and conditions
From 2014 to 12 January 2018 Santanders online banking terms and conditions 
included the following:
11.1.1 The One Time Passcode is an added security function integral to Your 
use of the Services. For the One Time Passcode to operate You must have 
registered Your mobile phone number with Us in respect of Your 
Account(s). The registered mobile phone must be able to receive calls and 
text messages.
11.1.2 If You do not register a mobile phone number with Us, Your access to 
the Online Banking Service may be limited; for instance, You will not be able 
to set up new payees. (my emphasis)
These terms and conditions changed on 13 January 2018. The change relevant to 
this complaint read as follows:
7.1 To login to your account, make payments and access many aspects of 
the services you will need to register your mobile phone number to 
receive onetime passcodes that we will send to your phone. You will need 
to input this code to verify and complete certain transactions. (my emphasis)The Payment Services Regulations 2017
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) implemented an EU Directive 
from 2015 commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive, or PSD2.
Reg. 100 of the PSRs 2017 which came into force on 14 September 2019, says that 
a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong customer authentication where 
a payment service user accesses its payment account online; initiates an electronic 
payment transaction; or carries out any action through a remote channel which may 
imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses. The FCA has said that telephone 
banking is out of scope of Reg. 100, although PSPs can extend strong customer 
authentication to this channel on a voluntary basis. So, SCA is something PSPs have 
to apply to online banking and card payments, and activities such as creating or 
amending payment mandates online.
Strong customer authentication (SCA) is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are 
independent, in that the breach of one element does not compromise the 
reliability of any other element, and designed in such a way as to protect the 
confidentiality of the authentication data, with the elements falling into two or 
more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
As a minimum, the elements or factors used in SCA must derive from two of the 
three above categories.
The FCA and UK Finance have both issued guidance to PSPs on the implementation 
of SCA. The FCA in its guidance document Payment Services and Electronic Money 
 Our Approach (June 2019) says:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be 
necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to comply 
with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service 
users will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may 
be made in areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a 
viable means to strongly authenticate customers in these situations. 
(my emphasis)
Later in the document the FCA explains that whilst PSPs may choose not to apply 
SCA where a payer initiates a payment to a trusted beneficiary, Strong customer 
authentication is required when a payer requests its PSP to create or amend a list of 
trusted beneficiaries. UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing 
a non-exhaustive list of authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the 
possession element of SCA. These include:
Possession of a device evidenced by an OTP generated by, or received on a 
device (such as OTP by SMS text message)Possession of a device evidenced by a signature generated by a device 
(hardware or software)
App or browser with possession evidenced by device binding
Card or device evidenced by QR code scanned from an external device
Possession of card evidenced by a card reader
Possession of card evidence by a dynamic card security code
OTP received by email account associated, bound or linked adequately to the 
cardholder
OTP received by landline number associated, bound or linked adequately to 
the cardholder
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to agree with the investigator and uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint. Ill explain why.
As Ive set out above, PSPs like Santander were required under the PSRs 2017 to 
implement SCA. The timeline for this has been subject to change because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. But ultimately PSPs had until March 2020 to implement SCA for 
online banking, and the FCA has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to 
implement SCA for online payments.
In response to this regulatory requirement Santander reinforced some of their 
existing processes to which OTPs to mobile phone were already integral, such as 
the process for setting up new payees. They also extended the need to receive an 
OTP to mobile phone to the online banking log in process. It was these changes that 
prompted Mrs Rs complaint, because she doesnt own a mobile phone or another 
mobile device, and without these she found she was, firstly, unable to make 
payments to new payees through online banking and, shortly afterwards, faced with 
being unable to even log in to online banking without a mobile phone. More recently, 
shes also been prevented from using her Santander debit card to make online 
payments because she cant receive OTPs via SMS text message. Mrs R doesnt 
think this is fair to her, or to people without mobile phones more generally.
I think its important to note that Mrs R doesnt disagree with SCA in principle. Shes 
explicitly said she acknowledges the importance of online banking and payment 
security. But she doesnt think she should have to have a mobile phone to complete 
SCA or, without one, be left with the less easy and less convenient options of 
telephone and branch banking. In short, her only complaint is about Santanders 
decision to send the OTPs she needs to strongly authenticate her to mobile phones 
only. I should point out that Santander do offer customers the ability to strongly 
authenticate using their mobile banking app, but as Mrs R doesnt have any mobile 
device at all thats not a viable option for her either.
Since receiving Mrs Rs complaint in April 2020 Santanders approach to SCA has 
evolved. Theyre now sending OTPs to Mrs Rs email address so that she can log in 
to online banking and carry out some online banking activities (for example, view her 
account balances and statements and make payments to trusted beneficiaries). 
Theyre also prepared to add an exemption allowing her to use her card for online 
shopping without a mobile phone; and have very recently told us that theyll be extending the use of email OTPs to online card payments and, shortly, the process 
for setting up new payees.
Im pleased to note these developments because Santanders approach to SCA until 
very recently left Mrs R unable to use the full range of online banking and electronic 
payment services offered by Santander, and reliant on telephone banking (or their 
OTP support line). I dont think that was fair and reasonable and I dont think 
Santanders approach to SCA was in line with whats expected by the regulator or 
industry bodies. And, importantly, I think Santanders approach put Mrs R at an unfair 
disadvantage because she doesnt have a mobile phone.
In my view, if Mrs R had to call a telephone number and speak with a Santander 
agent whenever she needed to create a new payee, shed no longer be strongly 
authenticating. Indeed, shed be using a banking channel (telephone banking) for 
which SCA isnt normally required. So, I dont think the OTP support line can 
reasonably be interpreted as an alternative way of strongly authenticating. Put 
simply, I think it avoids the SCA requirements altogether and is an alternative way of 
banking; an alternative way of banking which Mrs R has explained she finds less 
convenient, more time consuming and more restrictive, than online banking.
If Mrs R had to call a telephone number whenever she wanted to create a new payee 
the process would be subject to the usual telephone banking communications which 
means she would need to wait for her call to be picked up. Shed then have to go 
through telephone banking security, explain the reason for her call and go through 
the process of creating the new payee before shed be able to make a payment to 
that payee. Its a process that would take time; longer than the time it would take if 
Mrs R could enter the new payees details into an online banking screen and receive 
an OTP to authenticate the change. I think this is a very different level of service to 
that afforded to customers with mobile phones.
So, I think its right that Santander are now going to be offering email OTP for the 
process of setting up new payees. But its disappointing this offer has been so long 
coming (almost two years since Mrs R made her complaint), and in the interim 
Mrs Rs online banking and payment activity has been limited by the fact she doesnt 
have a mobile phone.
Im satisfied that the regulations and guidance Ive cited above mean that Santander 
were obliged to implement two-factor authentication or SCA to the online account 
login process, and also to electronic payments and some other remote banking 
actions. Fraud associated with online banking and electronic payments is a 
significant risk to both businesses and consumers, and the SCA measures are 
intended to enhance the security of payments, reducing that risk. So, I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly by implementing SCA.
But when doing so, I think Santander shouldve taken into account that there are, and 
will continue to be, customers who, for a variety of reasons, cant rely on possession 
of a mobile phone or device to authenticate themselves. And Santander shouldve 
taken steps to manage the potential negative impact of SCA on these customers. 
The FCAs guidance on this subject has been clear; PSPs such as Santander must 
provide viable methods for customers who dont possess a mobile phone or are in 
areas without reliable mobile phone reception to strongly authenticate. I dont think 
the FCA is saying this only applies to customers who cant rely on mobile devices for 
a specific reason (such as age, disability or vulnerability). I think the guidance is 
aimed at making sure online banking and electronic payment services are inclusive of non-mobile phone users, regardless of the reason why they dont have or use a 
mobile phone.
Thats not to say that sending OTPs to mobile phones is an unreasonable method of 
strongly authenticating customers. I recognise its a method that will be viable for 
many, and theres nothing wrong in my view with Santander choosing it as their 
primary method of strongly authenticating customers using their online banking and 
electronic payment services. However, when Mrs R complained that this wasnt a 
viable method for strongly authenticating her, I think Santander should have offered 
her alternatives.
Santander are now offering Mrs R viable alternatives. She can now receive email 
OTPs for accessing her online banking; Santander will soon be sending email OTPs 
for strongly authenticating online card payments and setting up new payees; and 
theyve adopted a permitted exemption from SCA for electronic payments to trusted 
beneficiaries. So, my understanding is that the only time shes likely to need to call 
Santander will be to verify any activity that has hit a fraud prevention rule  the need 
for this is, I think, likely to be infrequent.
Santander have indicated to this service that part of their rationale for not offering 
another alternative for strongly authenticating the creation of new payees before now, 
is that their customers have needed to receive an OTP to mobile phone to carry out 
this activity electronically for some years. Theyve pointed to their online banking 
terms and conditions from 2014 onwards as evidence of this. Ive thought carefully 
about this point, but Im not persuaded it makes a difference to my finding that 
Santander shouldve offered Mrs R a viable alternative when she first complained so 
that she could strongly authenticate when carrying out this activity too.
Under the PSRs 2017 PSPs are required to apply SCA, amongst other occasions, 
when a payment service user carries out any action through a remote channel which 
may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses. This means SCA is required 
when a payment service user requests its PSP to create or amend a list of trusted 
beneficiaries. As SCA is required by regulation to be applied to this activity, I think 
the FCA guidance which says PSPs should provide different methods of 
authentication, and must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate payment 
service users without mobile phones, also applies. I dont think this is guidance that 
Santander could disregard on the basis that they were only offering OTP to mobile 
for setting up new payees previously. The fact is theres been FCA guidance which 
says thats not enough since the inception of SCA. Offering only one mobile phone-
based method of strongly authenticating any activity to which SCA applies, excludes 
non-mobile phone users from that activity. I dont think thats right when there are 
other non-mobile phone-based options for SCA that PSPs can employ which are 
more inclusive.
I note that Santander havent said theyll be extending the email OTP solution to any 
and all online activity for which an OTP is currently required. This means that when 
Mrs R wants to make changes to her personal or contact details she might still not be 
able to do that without receiving an OTP to a mobile phone. Mobile phone OTPs 
might also be required when any other online activity hits a fraud prevention rule. If 
thats the case (and I invite Santander to confirm whether it is in response to this 
provisional decision), then there will remain some residual differences between the 
online banking experience of mobile phone users and customers like Mrs R who 
dont have a mobile phone. Im not satisfied thats fair. As Ive said, offering only one 
mobile phone-based method of strongly authenticating any activity to which SCA applies, excludes non-mobile phone users from that activity. But there are two things 
Id say about this.
Firstly, if, following Santanders implementation of their email OTP solution, Mrs R 
can do everything bar very occasional and specific activities such as updating her 
contact details without a mobile phone, I think shes likely to only experience 
infrequent and minor inconvenience.
Secondly, Santander have repeatedly told us that they wouldnt extend the use of 
email OTPs further or introduce another non-mobile phone-based authentication 
method for all online activities because its not within their risk appetite. I appreciate 
this and dont underestimate the risks which the growth of online payments presents, 
but I also note UK Finance have set out a range of methods a PSP can use to satisfy 
the possession element of SCA, so I dont think OTP to mobile phone is the only 
feasible way to mitigate the fraud risk. That said, I accept that businesses may use 
different systems and that Santander are telling me there are limitations to what they 
can offer. Theyll send email OTPs for logging on to online banking, making online 
card payments and, soon, setting up new payees, but not, it seems, for all actions a 
payment service user might carry out remotely to which SCA applies. Some activities 
might still need an OTP to mobile phone and in the absence of being able to receive 
one, a phone call to Santanders OTP support line. I also accept that I cannot require 
Santander to offer Mrs R an option that it currently doesnt offer, and I dont have 
evidence to support that itd be practical or possible for Santander to do so. 
Therefore, the only remedy I believe will adequately address this issue is 
compensation.
Putting things right
I agree with Mrs Rs complaint and I provisionally find that its not fair or reasonable 
of Santander to exclude Mrs R from some of their online banking and electronic 
payment services, just because she doesnt possess a mobile phone. Treating Mrs R 
fairly in my opinion involves making it possible for her to strongly authenticate so that 
she can fully use Santanders online banking and electronic payment services and 
doesnt have to rely on telephone and branch banking services instead.
In short, I think she should be able to access her online banking from a computer, 
make online payments to trusted and new payees, update her details, verify 
electronic payments, shop using her card online, and perform similar actions online, 
with a level of ease and convenience equal to that of mobile device users.
Santander have changed their approach to SCA since Mrs R first complained in April 
2020. Mrs R will, once Santander have implemented their recently offered email OTP 
solution, be able to make online card payments, access her online banking and make 
electronic payments to trusted beneficiaries and new payees unimpeded by not 
having a mobile phone. So, to put things right here Im going to say that Santander 
UK Plc should, as theyve already offered to do:
Send Mrs R OTPs to her email address for her to use to login to online 
banking;
Add an exemption allowing her to use her card for online shopping without a 
mobile phone, until they can offer an alternative authentication option that she 
has access to; and
Send Mrs R OTPs to her email address for her to use when she wants to set 
up a new payee.In deciding whether or not to award compensation, and if so, how much, Im satisfied 
that in this case I have to take into account the impact Santanders actions have had 
to date. As Ive said above, I think the current position (which Ive asked Santander to 
confirm) does leave some residual unfair differences between the online banking 
experience of mobile phone users and customers like Mrs R who dont have a mobile 
phone. But I dont think it would be appropriate to award compensation for the impact 
these differences are likely to have on Mrs R in the future, even though they may do 
so. I say this because Santander might decide to change its approach, or the issue 
may not arise again. I want to be clear that this decision addresses matters from the 
date Mrs R complained (April 2020) to the date of this decision only. It may be that 
the issue arises again  when Mrs R tries to undertake an online activity which she 
finds requires her to receive an OTP to a mobile phone  and if the matter cannot be 
resolved, it may result in a new complaint.
Our investigator said Santander should pay Mrs R £150 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by not being able to do certain online banking 
and payment activities without a mobile phone. This amount appeared fair due to the 
possibility of other options being put in place within a reasonable timeframe, and the 
expectation that the inconvenience would lessen with those other options. But as 
Santander have only just agreed to develop the email OTP solution for the setting up 
of new payees  almost a year since our investigator issued their view  and as there 
is currently no set date for when the solution will be implemented, Ive considered the 
award again. I consider a higher award would better address the issue and reflects 
the increased distress and inconvenience caused to date. In the circumstances, I 
think an award of £350 would be more appropriate.
Responses to the provisional decision
Santander agreed to do what Id said in my provisional decision. They also let us know that 
they plan to deploy the enhanced email OTP solution in June 2022 subject to testing and 
development.
Mrs R made the following comments in response to the provisional decision:
When shes tried to make payments to existing payees but changed the payment 
reference details, thats necessitated receiving an OTP to a mobile phone too  
Santanders system treats amendments to existing payees as if theyre new payees 
and this has had a significant impact on her ability to operate her account.
Whilst shes happy Santander have added an exemption allowing her to use her card 
for online shopping without a mobile phone, shes concerned this doesnt offer the 
same high level of security that mobile phone users enjoy, and she wants an equally 
secure alternative authentication option that she can access as soon as possible.
Santanders agreement to develop the email OTP solution for use when setting up 
new payees is welcome, but until its implemented she will continue to suffer 
inconvenience, distress and discrimination and the £350 only compensates her for 
the distress and inconvenience caused until the date of the decision.
Shes concerned that I cannot require Santander to offer an authentication option 
that it currently doesnt offer, and I dont have evidence to support that itd be 
practical or possible for Santander to do so  she thought I should be able to insist 
that Santander change their operating practices or systems.Santanders recent customer information communications show that they continue to 
focus on mobile phone OTPs, They make no mention of the current exemption 
option they have offered me, as a non-mobile user, for this activity. It seems they 
have no interest at all in communicating with customers who do not use a mobile 
phone 
Mrs R also said:
I find it hard to accept that Santander cannot find workable alternatives (many other 
banks and even HMRC have successfully adopted alternative solutions), and even 
harder to believe that their refusal to do so can go unchallenged  [I] am pleased 
that the ombudsman has decided to uphold [my complaint], and also recommended 
that some compensation payment from Santander is appropriate.
I am, however, extremely disappointed that more robust action has not been taken 
against Santander to put the matter right. I am also dismayed that Santander can 
continue to discriminate against non-mobile users, in contravention of the 
Regulations and all official guidance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the provisional decision I reached  I uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint. Santander should make the changes theyve now agreed to make so that 
Mrs R can access her online banking, make online card payments, and make electronic 
payments to trusted beneficiaries and new payees without reliance on a mobile phone.
I appreciate that Mrs R has felt discriminated against by Santander because she doesnt use 
a mobile phone  shes told me theyve made her feel like a second class customer  and I 
agree with her that this should not have happened. I think I set out clearly in my provisional 
decision that I dont think Santanders treatment of Mrs R has been fair or reasonable, and I 
dont think Santanders approach to SCA has been in line with whats expected by the 
regulator or industry bodies. My view on that hasnt changed.
Mrs R doesnt feel that Santanders approach to SCA has been sufficiently challenged. But 
through upholding Mrs Rs and similar complaints, I think Santanders approach has been 
challenged, and its through that process that their approach to SCA has evolved. Mrs R is 
also disappointed that my direction to Santander to put things right isnt more robust, 
because, as I acknowledged in my provisional decision, even Santanders evolved approach 
doesnt result in complete parity of experience between mobile phone users and those 
customers who dont have or cant use mobile phones to authenticate.
But its not our role to dictate what SCA methods Santander should offer, and any direction I 
give must be clear and practical for the business to implement. And in the circumstances 
that Santander are telling me theyre unable, due to risk and system considerations, to 
extend the use of email OTPs further, I cant give a direction that they should do so without 
evidence to support that itd be practical or possible.
Our role is to consider whether financial businesses, in this case Santander, have acted 
fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of an individual complaint. Where they havent, 
we consider the consequences of what theyve done and try to put the individual 
complainant back in the position they would otherwise have been in. Thats what we mean 
by putting things right. Broader changes to the way a business operates would be for the industry regulator (the FCA) to pursue. Whilst the FCA doesnt investigate individuals 
complaints against the firms it regulates, we share the insight from the complaints we see so 
that the FCA can use that insight to inform the regulatory and enforcement action it takes.
It is the case that Mrs R may still have to call Santanders telephone banking service more 
frequently than a customer who is able to receive OTPs to a mobile phone or use the mobile 
banking app. But with Santanders agreement to send email OTPs for strongly authenticating 
all of the main online banking and payment activities, the occasions on which Mrs Rs 
experience differs from that of a mobile phone user should be infrequent and cause no more 
than minor inconvenience. And if thats not the case, if Mrs Rs ability to undertake an online 
banking or payment activity related to her Santander accounts is frustrated because she 
cant receive an OTP to a mobile phone, and if the matter cannot be resolved, it may result 
in a new complaint.
The evolved position is that Santander now offer email OTPs for those customers who cant 
rely on possession of a mobile phone or device to authenticate themselves. Santander have 
told me that for setting up new payees (which includes amending existing payees) email 
OTPs are expected to be available in June 2022. So, Mrs R should soon be able to operate 
her account online very much like a mobile phone user would. I think that, along with the 
compensation Ive recommended, results in a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Mrs R has pointed out the £350 Ive recommended only compensates her for the 
inconvenience shes experienced to date, but says her inconvenience, distress and 
discrimination will continue until Santander implement the enhanced email OTP solution. I 
appreciate the point Mrs R is making here but I dont think it would be appropriate to 
increase the award Ive made further. Our awards for distress and inconvenience are made 
in the round rather than calculated on the exact number of days, weeks or months a 
consumer has been inconvenienced. Whilst I understand that Mrs R will continue to have to 
rely on telephone banking for setting up new payees and amending existing ones for another 
few months (until approximately June 2022), she will be able to log in to online banking, pay 
existing payees (without amendments) and make online card payments, all without having a 
mobile phone. So, her inconvenience will be limited. Im also mindful that although I think 
Santander should have made these changes earlier, now theyve agreed to do so, they do 
need a reasonable period in which to implement them. So, I wont be asking Santander to 
pay Mrs R more than £350. Of course, if Santander do not implement the enhanced email 
OTP solution in accordance with their planned timescale, Id expect them to give 
consideration to how any delay would further impact Mrs R.
Turning to Mrs Rs concern that the current exemption applied to her card for online card 
payments doesnt offer the same high level of security that mobile phone users enjoy, and 
her request to have an equally secure alternative authentication option that she can access 
as soon as possible, Santander have confirmed that they are planning to roll out email OTPs 
for authenticating online card payments also. Although Santander havent provided a 
timescale for that part of their plan I hope Mrs R will be reassured to know that, in the 
meantime, she should be able to make online card payments without interruption (unless the 
activity has hit a fraud prevention rule) and, importantly, that nothing about the exemption 
Santander has applied to her card changes Mrs Rs liability for unauthorised transactions. 
So, if Mrs Rs card details are used to make unauthorised payment transactions online there 
are still only very limited circumstances in which she wouldnt be entitled to a refund.
With regard to Mrs Rs comment that Santanders recent customer information 
communications show that they continue to focus on mobile phone OTPs, I appreciate that 
this generates Mrs Rs ire in the context that she has no interest in having a mobile phone 
and has been fighting to be given an alternative method to strongly authenticate since at 
least early 2020. But as Ive said before, I see nothing wrong in Santander choosing mobile phone OTPs as their primary method of strongly authenticating customers. I also see no 
error in Santander encouraging customers to register their current mobile phone number or 
use the mobile banking app so that they can securely authenticate. The important thing is 
that when a customer tells Santander that they dont have a mobile phone or cant use the 
app, Santander offer a viable alternative.
Overall, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. I dont think Santanders implementation of SCA 
treated Mrs R fairly and reasonably as they didnt offer her, someone who doesnt have a 
mobile phone, a viable alternative for strongly authenticating when they should have done.
Putting things right
As I set out in my provisional decision, to put things right Santander UK Plc should, as 
theyve already offered to do:
Send Mrs R OTPs to her email address for her to use to login to online banking;
Add an exemption allowing her to use her card for online shopping without a mobile 
phone, until they can offer an alternative authentication option that she has access 
to;
Send Mrs R OTPs to her email address for her to use when she wants to set up a 
new payee (or amend an existing payee); and
Pay Mrs R £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to date by Santanders 
implementation of SCA which meant Mrs R was unable to do certain online banking 
and payment activities without a mobile phone.
If Mr and Mrs R accept this decision, my expectation is that Santander should pay Mrs R the 
£350 within 28 days of their acceptance.
With regard to the changes theyve agreed to make so that Mrs R can strongly authenticate 
without a mobile phone, I expect Santander to make those changes which they havent 
already, as soon as possible. If Santanders plan to implement email OTP for new payees is 
not completed by June 2022 as theyve indicated, Id expect Santander to keep Mrs R 
informed and to consider the impact of any further delay on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Santander UK Plc should take 
the actions Ive set out in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman