DRN-3164834
The complaint
Mr H complains John Lewis Financial Services Ltd wrongly cancelled a direct debit set up to 
pay his personal loan. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr H took out a loan with John Lewis for about £11,000. A direct debit was set 
up to collect the monthly repayments.
 
In July 2020, Mr H called John Lewis to make a payment of £5,000 towards his loan. Mr H 
intended to make this payment and continue making his usual monthly repayments in order 
to repay the loan earlier than originally planned. 
In April 2021, a loan statement was issued to Mr H and he realised at this point the monthly 
loan repayments had stopped following the £5,000 payment.
 
Mr H complained to John Lewis. They said the £5,000 payment had been miscategorised 
which caused the direct debit to be cancelled. John Lewis admitted this was their error. They 
refunded interest of £273.82 and also offered Mr H £100 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr H wanted more compensation.
Our Investigator considered his complaint, he said in summary he thought what John Lewis 
had offered to do to put things right was fair. 
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators findings. He still wanted more compensation as he said 
the loan wouldve been paid off by now.
 
As Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a financial business makes an error, wed usually expect them to take steps to put 
the customer in the position they wouldve been in, had the mistake not happened  as far 
as is possible depending on the circumstances.
 
Theres no dispute John Lewis made a mistake when they cancelled Mr Hs direct debit for 
his loan. So what remains for me to consider is what they should do to put things right, 
taking into account any steps theyve already taken. 
John Lewis incorrectly categorised Mr Hs £5,000 payment. The effect being his direct debit 
was cancelled and payments due between July 2020 and May 2021 were being taken out of 
the £5,000. So, Mr H hasnt missed any of his contractual payments and theres been no 
adverse impact on his credit file. 
Mr H says he believes the loan should be paid off by now. Ive reviewed the statement for 
Mr Hs loan. And had the direct debit continued to be taken as planned, while its true he 
would be much closer to paying off the loan  it would still have an outstanding balance.
Mr Hs monthly payment was just over £320. Mr H was expecting this payment to debit his 
account each month but didnt notice until he received his loan statement that it wasnt being 
taken. So Mr H hasnt paid John Lewis as much as he thought he had. And I think £320 is a 
large enough amount that I would expect someone to notice that it hadnt left their account. 
Mr H said he didnt realise though and has now spent the money on other things. Thats 
unfortunate, but I dont think this means he now shouldnt have to pay whats outstanding on 
the loan. 
John Lewis have offered Mr H £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience. And 
have refunded interest applied to the loan of £273.82. I find this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances because Mr H would likely have saved some interest by repaying the loan 
earlier and £100 fairly reflects the worry Mr H has been caused by finding his payments have 
not been taken as he thought. 
Because of the mis-categorisation, the direct debits arent due to start being collected again 
until February 2022. Mr H has also told us that his circumstances have since changed and 
hes concerned he might not be able to make the required payments when they become 
due. If thats the case, I would encourage Mr H to speak to John Lewis directly about that. 
My final decision
John Lewis Financial Services Ltd has already offered Mr H £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience and refunded £273.82 in interest. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I find that fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
To put things right, John Lewis Financial Services Ltd should pay Mr H £100, if they havent 
done so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman