DRN-4322221
The complaint
Mr J complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) regarding the appliance 
cover he took out. He wants the policy to be cancelled and his premiums returned to him.
What happened
Mr J bought a new dishwasher in November 2021. It was made by manufacturer S and 
bought through retailer A. The dishwasher had been priced at £999, but Mr J had identified a 
lower price elsewhere, so A price matched the dishwasher and sold it to Mr J at £699. 
It was delivered to Mr J in mid-December 2021 and the product came with a 24-month 
manufacturer warranty. 
Shortly after delivery, Mr J called As aftercare line to buy appliance cover. He spoke with an 
agent about the cover, which was provided by D&G. The agent advised him that if he took 
out the cover then his appliance would be covered for accidental damage and faults and 
mechanical damage even after the manufacturer warranty expired. The agent explained 
that if a repair was not possible then Mr J would be entitled to a replacement appliance, up 
to the original retail price (£999). 
Mr J took out the cover, at £6.99 per month. Payments then started in January 2022. 
D&G sent policy documents to Mr J. In these, the exclusions on the policy were made clear. 
They detailed that the policy did not cover breakdown costs already covered by 
manufacturer, supplier or engineer guarantee or warranty. 
In February 2022, Mr Js dishwasher stopped working. He contacted D&G. D&G advised him 
that he needed to pursue the manufacturer or retailer as the product was still under 
manufacturer warranty. He contacted S, and the engineer who inspected the dishwasher 
indicated that the part needed to repair the dishwasher was not available. 
Mr J was not happy with this. He felt that he had been misled during the sales process and 
he had expected to be able to claim a replacement dishwasher up to the price of £999 if his 
dishwasher could not be repaired. 
D&G did not uphold his complaint. It pointed to the policy terms which had been sent to him 
and that these excluded breakdowns during the warranty period. 
Mr J remained unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. They considered that the 
sale as a whole, including the policy documents, made clear the limitations of the policy 
cover. They did not ask D&G to do anything more. 
Mr J did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this matter in July 2023. In that provisional 
decision I set out that I did think that the sale of the policy had been misleading and so I 
provisionally upheld Mr Js complaint. I considered, however, that he had not been caused 
significant distress and inconvenience by the mis-sale and so I provisionally awarded £50 
compensation, and refund of the premiums paid. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. D&G has responded, indicating that it accepts my provisional decision. Mr J has 
not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further evidence or arguments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision, I remain of the view previously set out. I therefore adopt that decision and 
reasoning as my final decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put matters right, D&G must cancel the policy back to inception and refund to Mr 
J the premiums he paid. D&G must also pay to Mr J £50 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Js complaint and 
direct Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Cancel Mr Js policy back to policy inception and refund to him the premiums he paid; 
and
Pay to Mr J £50 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman