DRN-4092375
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr P are unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs (HSBC) reporting to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs) in relation to their mortgage.  
What happened
Mrs C and Mr P held a repayment mortgage with HSBC, originally taken out in 2020. The 
mortgage was made up of two sub-accounts.
In January 2022, Mrs C contacted HSBC to say that she and Mr P were experiencing 
financial difficulties stemming from her having been made redundant, due to the impact of 
the COVID pandemic. Mrs C said that her previous employer had asked her to start work for 
them later in the year and she and Mr P were expecting some income to start coming in from 
a holiday let within the next few months. However, in the short term she and Mr P were using 
credit cards to pay for food and other bills. Mrs C said that they would struggle to make the 
usual payments on the mortgage.  
HSBC offered Mrs C and Mr P a Payment Break for three months to give them breathing 
space, which Mrs C and Mr P accepted.
In early April 2022, HSBC contacted Mrs C and Mr P to discuss the matter. It was agreed 
during the call that the arrears that had accrued on the account could be added to the 
outstanding loan balance (known as capitalisation of arrears), subject to Mrs C and Mr P 
making three qualifying payments  in April, May and June. 
Mrs C and Mr P made these payments and so the capitalisation of the arrears went ahead 
as planned. HSBC told Mrs C and Mr P that it was going to amend its reporting to CRAs to 
show June 2022 as being not in arrears, related to the timing of when the capitalisation 
process could have been completed. 
In May 2022, Mrs C and Mr P complained that they had noticed adverse information on their 
credit files, despite the arrangements that had been agreed. HSBC explained the basis of its 
CRA reporting. It said that when the capitalisation was completed, the mortgage would no 
longer be in arrears, but that the historical arrears would still show as an accurate history of 
the mortgage. HSBC did though pay Mrs C and Mr P £50 for what it said was a lack of clarity 
about this in the past. 
Mrs C and Mr P remained unhappy and referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
An investigator here issued an assessment. In summary, they thought that HSBC had been 
clear at every stage on what would be reported to CRAs and that HSBC had to report 
accurate information to CRAs. They said they thought HSBC removing the arrears from June 
2022 and paying £50 due to a delay in sending paperwork, was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs C and Mr P disagreed with some aspects of the assessment. In summary, they said that 
what HSBC put in writing about CRA reporting was unclear and hadnt gone into enough 
detail about what would happen. They said that if theyd been made aware of the true 
situation regarding CRA reporting, they wouldve looked for another solution for their 
financial situation.
They also pointed out that the £50 compensation wasnt anything to do with delayed 
paperwork but was in relation to their original complaint in May  and that HSBC had 
acknowledged there had been a lack of clarity. They also said that the removal of June 
arrears had only been done on one of their mortgage sub-accounts.
The investigator still didnt think HSBC needed to do anything further. 
Mrs C and Mr P remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be escalated to an 
Ombudsman. The investigator gave both parties another opportunity to provide any further 
comments. HSBC replied to say that it didnt think it should have told Mrs C and Mr P that it 
would remove the June arrears, because June was the month of the third qualifying payment 
and there hadnt been any delay to the paperwork. 
The case was passed to me to decide. After reviewing the file, I asked the investigator to 
request some further information from HSBC about the options available to Mrs C and Mr P 
when they first contacted HSBC about the difficulties they were facing, including whether a 
Payment Holiday would have been an option. I also shared some provisional thoughts with 
HSBC about the complaint. In summary, these were that:
- It seemed odd that HSBC wasnt reporting Mrs C and Mr P as having been in an 
arrangement April to June when they were making the qualifying payments in order 
to capitalise. This was an arrangement in the everyday meaning in that it was 
something Mrs C and Mr P had agreed with HSBC in relation to addressing their 
arrears situation. 
- Given that HSBC had told Mrs C and Mr P it would remove the June arrears, it 
should consider doing this for both of the mortgage sub-accounts. 
HSBC replied to say that a Payment Holiday had never been an option and so it was correct 
for it to have offered Mrs C and Mr P a Payment Break. Regarding the arrangement 
reporting, it said it didnt think this made much of a difference to how other lenders would 
view Mrs C and Mr Ps credit file and that it wasnt required under relevant guidance, 
including its own policy, to show Mrs C and Mr P as having been under an arrangement 
whilst making the qualifying payments April to June. 
In relation to the June arrears, it said that it should never have said it was going to remove 
the June arrears, because that wasnt correct. It said it could either update the incorrect 
account reporting to show the relevant arrears and pay some compensation, duplicate the 
error by showing the other account as no arrears in June, or do nothing. 
I shared some further provisional thoughts with HSBC. In summary, I said I was still minded 
to say that April to June should show as an arrangement. In terms of the June reporting, 
ultimately HSBC needed to report accurate information to CRAs. But insofar as it had told 
Mrs C and Mr P that it was going to remove the June arrears, only then did this for one of the 
mortgage sub-accounts and never corrected Mrs C and Mr Ps understanding about what 
was going to happen, HSBC should pay Mrs C and Mr P an additional £100 to reflect this. 
I asked the investigator to provide Mrs C and Mr P with a summary of the correspondence 
with HSBC that they werent aware of, to give them the opportunity to provide any further 
submissions. 
Mrs C and Mr P replied to say they had nothing further to add.HSBC replied saying it still didnt agree that it was necessary for April to June to be reported 
as an arrangement. It re-iterated this wasnt required under ICO guidance and its own policy 
and that it would be unreasonable to change how it reported this for Mrs C and Mr P, 
compared to other customers in a similar situation. 
It also said that it didnt think it needed to pay any compensation for the June arrears issue, 
saying that Mrs C and Mr P had already benefited from one of the sub-accounts showing no 
arrears for June, when this was incorrect. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Ps complaint 
about the clarity of HSBCs communications to do with CRA reporting, at and from the point 
it agreed to a Payment Break in January 2022 and then the capitalisation plan (with 
qualifying payments) in April 2022. I also cant see that HSBC has made any errors in terms 
of arrears reporting to CRAs during the period (with the exception of the issue to do with 
June 2022  which I will cover later).
However, I dont think HSBC has treated Mrs C and Mr P fairly in relation to certain aspects 
of its CRA reporting. 
Before I explain why, I want to set out my role as an Ombudsman. It isnt to address every 
single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable 
given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue 
to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
There are three issues that I need to consider:
- Did HSBC give Mrs C and Mr P clear enough information about the impact of the 
Payment Break and subsequent arrangements on their mortgage?
- Is it fair for HSBC to have continued to report arrears to CRAs after the capitalisation 
of arrears in July 2022 (and has it otherwise reported accurately)?
- Has HSBC treated Mrs C and Mr P fairly in relation to other elements of the CRA 
reporting?
Ill deal with each of these in turn.
Did HSBC give Mrs C and Mr P clear enough information about the impact of the Payment 
Break and subsequent arrangements on their mortgage?
If I were to find that HSBC didnt give Mrs C and Mr P clear enough information about the 
impact of the Payment Break and subsequent arrangements, I would need to go on to think 
about what impact this had. In other words, had Mrs C and Mr P been given clearer 
information, would this have made a difference to what happened with their mortgage.
It's clear Mrs C and Mr P feel strongly that HSBC didnt go into enough detail about the 
potential impact of them not making full repayments on their mortgage for a period of time. In the course of bringing their complaint, they have quoted parts of the letters they received 
from HSBC from the point at which the Payment Break was agreed, explaining what they 
thought certain wording meant. They also point out that, when responding to their initial 
complaint, HSBC offered them £50 in recognition of not being clearer.
HSBC says that it gave Mrs C and Mr P clear enough information about the potential impact 
of what it had agreed with them, on their credit files.
While I appreciate how strongly Mrs C and Mr P feel about this issue and also see the point 
they make about HSBC having apologised and paid £50 for a lack of clarity, I consider that 
HSBC was clear about the consequences (in terms of CRA reporting) of it agreeing the 
Payment Break and capitalisation plan, both when speaking to Mrs C over the telephone and 
in the associated correspondence. 
As well as Mrs C and Mr P explaining what they took certain wording in correspondence to 
mean, the crux of their concerns around clarity is that HSBC didnt go into enough detail 
about what might happen to their credit file and the impact this might have, in certain 
circumstances. However, I find that what was communicated was sufficiently clear and it 
would be difficult and potentially confusing for a customer if a lender such as HSBC was to 
try to provide information up front to cover lots of potential scenarios and circumstances. 
I said earlier that if I were to conclude that HSBC could have and needed to be clearer in 
what it told Mrs C and Mr P, I would need to then go on to consider the extent to which this 
made a difference to what happened. Given my finding that the information HSBC provided 
was clear enough, I dont need to do this. However, for completeness I would add that given 
the circumstances Mrs C described when contacting HSBC in January 2022, I cant see that 
she and Mr P had any realistic alternatives.
Is it fair for HSBC to have continued to report arrears to CRAs after the capitalisation of 
arrears in July 2022 (and had it otherwise reported accurately)?
Regarding arrears reporting (June 2022 aside, which I will cover separately later), there is 
nothing unfair about HSBC continuing to report the arrears that accrued on the account, 
before they were capitalised. HSBC is required to report accurate information to CRAs. The 
fact that the arrears were capitalised in July 2022 doesnt take away from the fact they 
accrued before that point. So I cant reasonably say that HSBC has made any error or 
treated Mrs C and Mr P unfairly by reporting in the way that it has. 
Has HSBC treated Mrs C and Mr P fairly in relation to other aspects of CRA reporting?
There are two issues here:
- Is it fair for HSBC to report Mrs C and Mr P as not having been in an arrangement, 
when they agreed to make the qualifying payments April to June 2022, ahead of 
capitalising the arrears?
- Has HSBC treated Mrs C and Mr P fairly in relation to the issue of the June 2022 
reporting?
Ive taken account of what HSBC has said that in not reporting an arrangement it is following 
relevant ICO guidance and its own policy on CRA reporting. And that it wouldnt be fair to 
amend the reporting for Mrs C and Mr P when this would then be different to how it reports 
for other customers in similar circumstances.
However, this hasnt changed my mind. On my reading of the relevant ICO guidance, whilst its true that it doesnt specify that a lender must show customers in Mrs C and Mr Ps 
circumstances as having been in an arrangement, equally it doesnt say they cant or 
shouldnt.  
In terms of the other point HSBC has raised, I can't comment on what HSBC does for other 
customers. However, in this particular case Im satisfied that Mrs C and Mr P were in an 
arrangement with HSBC whilst making the qualifying payments in the lead up to the 
capitalisation of arrears. As such, that should be fairly reflected in reporting to CRAs.
In terms of the June 2022 reporting, HSCB says that no compensation is due because 
Mrs C and Mr P have benefited from one of their sub-accounts showing as not being in 
arrears in June 2022, when this shouldnt have been the case.
I disagree. I have previously set out that my understanding is HSBC told Mrs C and Mr P 
that it was going to remove the June arrears and that it didnt subsequently correct their 
understanding of what was going to happen, despite apparently changing its mind. HSBC 
hasnt said anything to suggest my understanding of what happened is incorrect.
This represents poor communication and customer service. Mrs C and Mr P were expecting 
the arrears to be removed from both mortgage sub-accounts. That this didnt happen and 
that HSBC doesnt appear to have communicated anything to Mrs C and Mr P about this, 
has caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience that could and should have been 
avoided. Its possible that the one sub-account showing no arrears in June 2022 when it 
shouldnt have has benefitted Mrs C and Mr P in some way. But this is only a possibility and 
the extent of any benefit is unknown. Taking everything into account, I still find that HSBC 
should pay Mrs C and Mr P an additional £100 to reflect this.  
Putting things right
To put things right, HSBC must do the following:
- Amend its CRA reporting to show Mrs C and Mr P as having been in an arrangement 
April to June 2022.
- Pay Mrs C and Mr P an additional £100 in compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs C and Mr Ps complaint in part and I direct HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do what Ive set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman