DRN-4334056
The complaint
Mr O complains Haven Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly by cancelling his 
motor insurance policy and declining his claim.  
What happened
In January 2023 Mr O travelled in his van to a hotel. He was staying there to attend an 
electrician course nearby. Unfortunately his van was stolen. He claimed for theft against his 
Haven motor insurance policy. 
Haven declined the claim. It said Mr O had said he had been attending the course in relation 
to work. His policy only covered social, domestic and pleasure use. So Haven said, as the 
purpose of the journey was work related, the theft wasnt covered. 
Mr O complained. He denied he had been attending the course for work or employment 
purposes. He said it was for personal domestic knowledge unrelated to work. Haven didnt 
change its decision. It added that he had breached the terms of his policy by using the 
vehicle for a purpose he wasnt insured for. As a result it cancelled the policy. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He says the journey wasnt related to work or 
business  instead it was a personal trip. To resolve his complaint he would like his claim to 
be paid. 
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded Mr Os journey was work related. So she recommended 
Haven reinstate the policy, reconsider his claim and remove any record of cancellation. Mr O 
accepted that outcome. As Haven didnt the complaint was passed to me to decide.  
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explained why I intended to come to a different outcome to the Investigator. I 
set out why I felt it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to interfere with Havens decision to decline 
the claim and cancel the policy. I also invited Haven and Mr O to provide anything further 
they would like me to consider before issuing this final decision. Neither provided anything. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr O and Haven have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything
provided.
Having considered everything I think its most likely Mr O was using the vehicle for 
work or employment purposes when it was stolen. So I dont intend to interfere with 
Havens decision not to pay his claim. 
In a claim call with Haven Mr O explained hes a trainee electrician. He said that was 
why he was at the course. In the same call he confirms how he regularly uses the 
vehicle for work purposes  most recently for work as an electrician. 
After Haven declined his claim, for him using the vehicle for work purposes, Mr O told 
this service he was actually attending the course for non-work related reasons  to 
gain knowledge of domestic electrics. He denied having described himself as an 
electrician  or trainee. He was unable to provide any details or confirmation of the 
course to support it being not employment related. His account of the circumstances 
of the events around the theft was, in places, inconsistent with what he told Haven 
earlier  including the length of the course.
Of most importance for me, however, is Mr Os mobile phone number and address 
being linked to internet adverts for an electrician service. I can share these with him if 
he would like to see them. So it seems he probably does work, or at least has 
worked, as an electrician as he originally said. Considering everything I think his 
initial account of his travel is the most likely one  and that he primarily used the 
vehicle for business or employment purposes.  
In regard to the cover provided by Mr Os policy. He was only insured for social, 
domestic and pleasure use. Ive already explained to Haven that he was asked, when 
taking out the policy, about the nature of his use of the vehicle. He wasnt asked what 
level of cover he would like. This means Havens required to take into account the 
considerations of the Insurance Act 15 (IA15) 
However, Havens failed to provide requested information to show theres been a 
qualifying breach (as required by IA15). So it hasnt shown it can use remedies, like 
avoiding the policy and declining the claim, available to it under IA15. 
But I dont intend to require Haven to reinstate the policy and settle the claim. 
Considering Mr Os accounts of the use of his vehicle, if Haven had provided the 
requested information I think its unlikely he would have ended up with a better 
outcome, under IA15, than a cancelled policy and declined claim. In addition his 
policy doesnt cover work or business use and Havens referred to a term it feels 
allow it to cancel when the vehicle is used for purposes not covered. So I currently 
feel it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to interfere with Havens decision to decline the 
claim and cancel the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr O nor Haven provided anything for me to consider. So I dont have any reason to 
change the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision. That means Im not going to 
interfere with Havens decision to decline Mr Os claim and cancel his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not going to interfere with Haven Insurance Companys 
decision to decline Mr Os claim and cancel his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman