DRN-3647034
The complaint
Mr R complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) provided a poor 
service under his kitchen appliance insurance policy.
Mr R would like Fortegra to repair the damage he said they caused to his kitchen floor. And 
provide compensation for the distress and inconvenience the poor service caused.
Mr R is represented in his complaint. But Ill only refer to Mr R in my decision. A number of 
businesses were involved in this complaint, but Ill only refer to Fortegra in my decision.
What happened
Mr R had a kitchen appliance insurance policy with Fortegra, which started on 11 November 
2021. 
On 13 December 2021, Mr R contacted Fortegra because his dishwasher had broken down. 
Fortegra said that Mr R reported that an error code was showing on the dishwasher. Their 
notes recorded that the dishwasher wasnt draining water. 
Fortegra sent out an engineer on 17 December 2021. Its notes record that a fault was found. 
The engineer found that the pump was jammed. He cleared the pump and reset the 
antiflood.
Mr R said the dishwasher began leaking around ten minutes after the engineer left his 
property. He said hed called and texted the engineer to ask him to return to the property, but 
the engineer hadnt replied. Fortegra arranged for a further engineer visit on 24 December 
2021. But that engineer arrived early, when Mr R wasnt at home, so the scheduled visit 
never took place. Mr R said the dishwasher had stopped leaking by the time the engineer 
returned to his property on 31 December 2021.
Fortegras engineers notes record that on 31 December 2021 he found the same error with 
the dishwasher, and that the body of the inlet valve was leaking. The notes say that he was 
waiting for a part number for the new inlet valve before it could be ordered.
It appears that this part wasnt ordered. So when a further engineers visit was arranged so 
that the new part could be fitted, the dishwasher couldnt be fixed. The engineer also found 
other faults with the dishwasher which needed new parts.
Mr R complained to Fortegra. He said that although several engineers attended his property, 
there were delays to the repair due to parts either not being ordered or not turning up. He 
also said that the delays to the repairs/replacement of the dishwasher, which had been 
leaking, led to the tiles in his kitchen being damaged. He said that Fortegra had agreed to 
replace the dishwasher in February 2022.
Fortegra issued its final response to the complaint on 14 March 2022. It acknowledged that 
Mr R had experienced a greater level of inconvenience than he should have. And offered 
£25 compensation for the inconvenience thatd been caused. It said the terms and 
conditions of the policy stated that the cost of repairing the tiles Mr R had said had been 
damaged couldnt be covered under the policy. This was because the General Exclusions 
section said that Fortegra wouldnt cover any claims for loss or damage caused by any 
broken appliance. 
Mr R didnt agree with Fortegra. He said that the tiles hadnt been damaged by the broken 
appliance, but by the engineers failure to correctly fix the dishwasher. He said the 
dishwasher hadnt been leaking before the first engineers visit on 17 December 2021.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. He said the error code on the dishwasher had 
reappeared ten minutes after the engineer had left his property on 17 December 2021. He 
said hed had to make a large number of phone calls before Fortegra had agreed to replace 
the dishwasher, which was delivered on 18 February 2022. He didnt think the £25 itd 
offered fairly reflected the delays, distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint and felt that it should be 
upheld. He felt that the compensation Fortegra had offered wasnt enough as the dishwasher 
shouldve been replaced sooner. And that £50 was more reasonable. But he didnt consider 
that Fortegra should have to pay to repair the damage to the tiles. He felt that it was more 
likely than not that the leak had been caused due to the dishwasher being faulty. And that 
this meant the damage caused to the tiles wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr R wasnt happy with our investigators findings. He said that although the dishwasher had 
a fault, it hadnt been leaking before the engineer visit. 
Our investigator said that on Mr Rs initial call to this service, hed said the leak had been 
ongoing for a while, but he hadnt known about it at the time. He felt this showed that Mr R 
didnt know when the leak had started. And therefore felt this showed that there wasnt any 
evidence to suggest that the engineer had caused the leak. He felt it was likely that the leak 
had started either before the engineer visited, or some days afterwards. He felt that the leak 
was simply due to the faulty dishwasher. 
Mr R told this service that hed only noticed water appearing from between the tiles after the 
engineers visit. This was why they felt the leak had been caused by the engineer. He felt the 
£50 compensation the investigator had suggested was insulting under the circumstances. 
He said hed been without a dishwasher over Christmas. And had spent three months 
waiting for his dishwasher to be fixed. He also said that his kitchen tiles had still not been 
replaced.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that although the 
compensation Fortegra offered is too low under the circumstances of the complaint, theres 
not enough evidence that its engineer caused the dishwasher to leak. I appreciate that Mr R 
will be disappointed with my decision so Ill explain how I reached it. 
As our investigator noted, our role is to ensure that Fortegra acted in line with its policy terms 
and conditions. But we also need to consider whether theyve considered the claim in a fair 
and reasonable manner. Mr R feels that the 17 December 2021 engineers visit led to his dishwasher leaking and 
damaging his tiles. 
Fortegra considers that the broken dishwasher caused the tile damage. And that the General 
Exclusions section of the policy terms and conditions exclude any claims for loss or damage 
caused by any broken appliance. 
The policy terms and conditions state under General Exclusions:
The following exclusions apply to all sections of your policy.
6. Consequential loss of any type e.g.
a) Property damage caused by the product.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. I consider that its more 
likely than not that the broken dishwasher was the cause of the damage to the tiles. I say 
this because other than Mr R stating that he first noticed the leak after the first engineers 
visit, Ive no evidence about when the leak started. After his visit on 17 December 2021, the 
engineer reported that the pump had been jammed. Im persuaded that this indicates the 
dishwasher had a fault before the engineers visit that couldve caused a leak. 
I also considered whether such an exclusion is reasonable under the terms of the policy. As 
the policy was for kitchen appliances, I consider that the exclusion was reasonable. If such 
an exclusion didnt exist, the insurer would likely have to charge considerably more for the 
policy, as broken kitchen appliances often do cause other consequential losses/property 
damage. 
Overall, I dont have enough evidence to consider that its more likely than not that the first 
engineer caused the leak. Therefore I cant uphold this part of the complaint. And it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to ask Fortegra to cover the cost of the damage to the tiles.
I next considered whether the compensation Fortegra offered Mr R was reasonable under 
the circumstances. 
The policy terms and conditions state, under Understanding your policy: 
In the event that we are unable to fix the fault on your product within 21 calendar days from 
the engineer visits, then you may request that we replace your product.
I understand that Fortegras engineers felt that the dishwasher could be fixed. But I can see 
that it took them much longer than I consider reasonable to order the parts they needed to 
carry out the repairs. However, when Mr R requested a replacement, which I believe was in 
early February 2022, Fortegra agreed to the request. 
So while it did take over two months from the first engineers visit for the dishwasher to be 
replaced, and therefore Mr R was without a working dishwasher for that period, I consider 
that, in the end, Fortegra acted reasonably when they agreed to replace the broken 
dishwasher, rather than continue to try to repair it. 
I acknowledge that the service Mr R received fell short on several occasions. I can see it 
wouldve been frustrating having several engineers turn up, only for them not to be able to fix 
the problem. I can also see that sorting out the repairs, and then the replacement, wouldve 
taken longer than Mr R couldve reasonably expected. However, given Mr R now has a 
replacement dishwasher, I agree with our investigator that £50 is reasonable compensation for the additional period of time he was without a working dishwasher, and for the extra 
phone calls he had to make to sort out his claim.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint. Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd must pay Mr R £50 
compensation for the poor service he received during his dishwasher claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Fortegra Europe Insurance 
Company Ltd to pay Mr R £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman