DRN-4380732
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. 
He says he was experiencing hardship and had to take out another loan to repay this one.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £3,000.00 in August 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £196.31. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and Likely Loans had told us. And he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and information it obtained through open banking 
and all of this showed Mr M could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said he was in financial difficulty, had to borrow from elsewhere 
in order to settle this loan and so shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans didnt just simply accept what Mr M had told 
it. It carried out credit searches which showed that while Mr M had two defaulted accounts 
and a previous settled County Court Judgment (CCJ) these were historic in that the most 
recent event was approaching almost two years prior to this application. 
Furthermore, Mr Ms unsecured credit commitments werent excessive in comparison to his 
income and there was no recent payday loan usage.
I accept that Mr M appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. I know that Mr M has said that he struggled to make his repayments and that he 
was only able to repay this loan early by taking out another loan early. 
Im sorry to hear about what Mr M has told us. But its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Mr M didnt have 
to settle the outstanding balance on this loan in full in April 2022, indeed the expectation was 
that he would keep making payments until August 2023. 
So while Mr M might have borrowed from another lender to settle his loan early, I dont think 
it is reasonable to expect Likely Loans to have accounted for this possibility. I would simply 
have expected it to make reasonable enquiries into Mr Ms ability to make the 24 monthly 
instalments, which Im satisfied that it did do so here.
Given the amount of the monthly payments and the lack of obvious indicators of any recent  
difficulty in the information Likely Loans did obtain, I dont think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have extended into requesting copies of Mr Ms bank 
statements. 
At best, even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, which Im not 
necessarily persuaded is the case here, any such checks would only have gone as far as 
finding out more about Mr Ms regular living costs. And I dont think that obtaining bank 
statements was the only way that Likely Loans could have done this. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman