DRN-2313003
The complaint
 Mr H has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
 
What happened
 Mr H had a personal pension policy with a third-party provider. In late 2015, he recalls being 
contacted by representatives of Alexander David through an unsolicited phone call. Mr H 
says he was told that he should transfer his pension, because it wasnt performing very well 
to another investment. He says he was told the investment would provide a guaranteed rate 
of return.
On 4 February 2016, Mr H received an application form from EasySIPP which he completed 
and returned. His personal pension was transferred on 2 March 2016 and £17,320 was 
transferred and used to invest in debentures, through an account with Beaufort Securities.
Mr H, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in September 2018. I 
understand Alexander David didnt provide a response to the complaint. The representative 
subsequently referred it to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He asked Alexander David for its files 
and to provide any evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he 
received no response. The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the evidence 
that had been presented. This being testimony from Mr H and evidence from third parties.
The investigator was satisfied Alexander David is involved in this complaint because 
following Mr Hs testimony EasySIPP, which is operated and administered by Gaudi 
confirmed it was Alexander Davids appointed representative who introduced Mr H to open 
the SIPP.
Because Mr H has complained he was given unsuitable advice, he said he would normally 
expect to see a suitability report and fact find detailing a firms recommendations to its client. 
He hadnt been provided with copies of any such documentation but because of third party 
testimony he said that didnt mean Alexander David, operating through their representatives, 
didnt effectively provide advice in the form of a personal recommendation.
He went on to look at the definition of a personal recommendation in the FCA handbook. It 
says:
"A recommendation:
(a) made to a person in their capacity as an investor or potential investor or in their
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor;
(b) which constitutes a recommendation to them to do any of the following (whether
as principal or agent):
(i) buy, sell. subscribe for. exchange, redeem. hold or underwrite a particular investment
which is a security, a structured deposit or a relevant investment (that is. any designated
investment (other than a P2P agreement). funeral plan contract. pure protection contract.
general insurance contract. right to or interests in a funeral plan contract or structured
deposit); or
(ii) exercise or not exercise any right conferred by such a relevant investment to buy, sell
subscribe for exchange or redeem such an investment;
(c) that is:
(i) presented as suitable for the person to whom it is made; or
(ii) based on a consideration of the circumstances of that person; and
(d) that is not issued exclusively to the public."
So, the investigator went on to consider the available evidence in light of the definition 
provided by the regulator.
He found that as Mr H had been told his exiting pension plan wasnt performing well and a 
transfer into this investment would provide a guaranteed rate of return, it seemed a 
comparison had taken place between the proposed investment and the existing one. The 
investigator felt this evidenced a recommendation had been made and tailored to Mr Hs 
personal circumstances and so met the definition of a recommendation.
He then went on to consider if it was a suitable recommendation. The investigator didnt 
agree it was. Mr H said he was a low risk investor client with little capacity for loss. Looking 
at Mr Hs circumstances he thought some moderate risk might have been appropriate. But 
this investment he found to be completely unsuitable. It shifted Mr Hs assets into a single 
company whereas most pension funds are diversified across dozens of companies in 
different industries and sectors, but the success of this investment was dependant on just 
one.
The investigator considered Alexander David might make the case that it did not make a 
personal recommendation. It could say that St Pauls Marketing arranged an investment into 
a non-readily realisable security by way of direct offer, rather than following an advice 
process. But he still didnt find this would have been appropriate. The regulator, in its Code 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS), specifically 10.2.1 says that were a direct offer is made, an 
appropriateness test should be carried out. The investigator had not been provided with any 
confirmation such a test had been completed. He also said there was no evidence to 
suggest that Mr H wouldve insisted to proceed with the transaction against suitable advice 
to retain his current pension., he concluded Mr H shouldnt have transferred his pension from 
his ceding scheme. He upheld Mr Hs complaint and suggested how Alexander David should 
put things right.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David on 5 October 
2020. But it didnt provide a response. The investigator wrote to both parties on 3 November 
2020 explaining that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to 
make a final decision. No further evidence or arguments were provided.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have looked at all the available information provided afresh. Having done so, I have 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Hs original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the 
investigators assessment. So, theres only very limited evidence available to establish what 
happened at the time of the transfer and investment. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Hs recollections of 
events and third-party evidence from Gaudi, the EasySIPP administrators. Alexander 
David/St Pauls Marketing hasnt disputed what Mr H said in his complaint to it, or what the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful, that this is one of a number of complaints this service has received against 
St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly similar circumstances 
and the same investments. I consider each complaint on its own merits. But Ive noted that 
what Mr H has said about St Pauls role is consistent with what other complainants have 
described. His testimony has also been confirmed by Gaudi. It wrote to this service on 2 
October 2020 to confirm Mr H was introduced by to Easy SIPP by St Pauls. So, I think what 
he has said is plausible. And taking everything into account, I have found it credible. 
Mr H representative completed a complaint form for us, a copy of which was sent to 
Alexander David. In the complaint form, Mr H has said that St Pauls Marketing made 
unsolicited phone calls advising him to transfer his pension for improved returns. His 
representatives say he had no investment experience and was heavily reliant on those 
advising him. By definition, his representatives say he is a low risk investor due to his lack of 
experience. His representatives say he shouldnt have been exposed to such a high-risk 
investment which was unsuitable for him and his objectives.
Mr Hs testimony and that of Gaudi shows St Pauls Marketing were involved from the outset. 
Mr H subsequently transferred his pensions to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In 
my experience, I find it most unusual for someone of Mr Hs background and experience to 
want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of investment without 
prompting.
Im persuaded St Pauls Marketing initiated the investment in the debenture. The investigator 
reached the view, based on Mr Hs testimony that he was advised to do so and the third-
party evidence from the SIPP administrator, that it was more likely than not the case. The 
firm hasnt disputed this or provided any evidence to the contrary. St Pauls Marketing was 
the promoter for the debenture, but Im satisfied, on the limited evidence available, that it 
went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment (as well as 
recommending it).
These debentures were a non-readily realisable security. I have noted Mr H signed a 
document to confirm he understood the risks involved in such an investment but from what 
Ive seen I find that highly unlikely.
The documentation refers to the investment as:
...High Risk and/or Speculative, may be illiquid and/or difficult to value or sell which
may impact on my ability to take my pension benefits and take a pension income...There is no available evidence to suggest Mr H had the financial wherewithal to understand 
what such an investment would entail. In my view switching a pension can be a complex 
transaction with several different factors to weigh up and consider. Mr H was an ordinary 
retail investor. He doesnt appear to have had any experience or knowledge of this type of 
transaction or the complex and higher risk investments he was invested into. I think Mr H 
was entitled to rely on the firm providing advice that was suitable to his circumstances. It was 
acting in its professional capacity and was obliged to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice and to act in Mr Hs interests.  
Mr Hs representative has said he was a low risk investor. I havent seen anything to the 
contrary, and I find Mr H had very limited capacity for loss. I think it was clear that the 
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr H and this should have been clear to St 
Pauls Marketing.
Overall, Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr H to transfer and invest in 
the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate or suitable for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them. I find this failure caused he losses Mrs H has claimed.
 
Putting things right
 My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr H back into the position he would
likely have been in, had it not been for Alexander Davids error. Any loss Mr H has suffered 
should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the pension from Phoenix on the 
basis that it had stayed where it would be and subtracting the current value of the pension 
from this notional value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to
allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr H hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the
loss adequately reflects this.
In addition, Alexander Davis should pay Mr £250 for the disruption to his retirement plans.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint.
But, if Phoenix cant calculate a notional value, my aim is to put Mr H as close to the position 
he would probably now be in if they had they remained in an appropriate fund.
Its not possible to say precisely where Mr H wouldve invested. But I think what Ive
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Hs circumstances and objectives when
his pension was transferred.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what hewould have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable
given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Alexander David do
To compensate Mr H fairly it should compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that 
of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Hs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay 
the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Hs pension 
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Hs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from
(start date)to
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists Original 
personal 
pensionDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement if 
settlement 
isnt made 
within 28 
days of 
Alexander 
David being 
notified of 
Mr Hs 
acceptance 
of this 
decision In addition, Alexander David Securities Ltd should
pay Mr H £250 for the disruption to his retirement plans.
provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David considers its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment 
should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if it totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H has said he was a low to medium risk investor. His existing pension was invested in 
assets that were suitable to his risk profile. In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr H would 
have transferred with suitable advice. So, I think the comparison should be against his 
original pension arrangement.
 
My final decision
  For the reasons I have given, I uphold this complaint and direct Alexander David Securities 
Limited to compensate Mr H as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman