DRN-1124320
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Ltd reported information about his account to credit 
reference agencies.
What happened
On 15 February 2019 Mr B applied to open an account with Starling. But he wasnt able to 
complete the verification process due to problems with the identification document he 
provided. Starling said despite it making a number of attempts to contact Mr B in order to 
complete the verification process it wasnt able to reach him. And it said it didnt hear from 
Mr B until 20 August 2019 when he contacted Starling by email to advise that he no longer 
wanted to proceed with his account activation.
On 24 August 2019 Mr B raised a complaint with Starling. He had become aware that it had 
been reporting information about his account to credit reference agencies (CRAs) despite his 
identification document not being approved. He wasnt happy about this. But Starling didnt 
uphold that aspect of his complaint because it didnt think it had made an error. It said, 
although verification hadnt been completed successfully, Mr Bs account had been opened, 
which is what it had reported to CRAs. It did, however, accept it should have responded to 
his email of 20 August without the need for him to contact it four days later.
Being dissatisfied with Starlings response to his complaint he referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr B, they didnt think Starling 
had made an error in reporting his account status to CRAs prior to the verification process 
being completed. But Mr B disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I appreciate 
Mr B will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind 
my decision.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr B and Starling that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can appreciate that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. He wants the information Starling 
reported to CRAs erasing from his credit file. But, Im satisfied that it was right to report on 
his account. Im also persuaded Starling reported this information properly. Ill explain why.Its important that financial businesses report accurate factual information about a 
customers account to CRAs. Guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate, complete and up to 
date.  
Here, Mr B applied to open an account. He accepted the terms and conditions that applied to 
this account, and he was given an account and sort code. He was able to deposit money into 
that account. And, while the verification process wasnt completed successfully, Im satisfied 
that Starling opened an account for him in line with the instructions he gave in February 
2019.  
Ive seen evidence that Starling recorded information about the status of Mr Bs account with 
CRAs, which is what wed expect a business to do. Starling has reported that Mr Bs account 
was opened and that it had a zero balance. I havent seen any evidence that any adverse 
information has been recorded on Mr Bs credit file by Starling.
I realise Mr B is unhappy about Starling reporting anything about his account to CRAs but I 
cant fairly conclude that Starling made an error in reporting on this account. It follows that I 
cant ask it to remove any information it reported. 
Finally, Starling recognised that it should have responded to Mr Bs email of 20 August. Im 
persuaded its candidly accepted its error here. And I think what its said about its failure to 
offer a proper response in a timely manner was fair. Im satisfied that this error doesnt 
warrant an award of compensation.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision and I appreciate the reasons why he 
brought this complaint to our service. But for the reasons set out above, I dont thing Starling 
has done anything wrong here. Its acted fairly and reasonably in reporting information about 
Mr Bs account to credit reference agencies. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman