DRN-2707512
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs N says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs N opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ns card each 
month if shed made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he 
wasnt convinced that Mrs N had been working for at least 16 hours per week when she took 
out the PPI. And this would have meant that she wouldnt have been able to claim on the 
main benefits of the policy. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators initial view. And after Mrs N 
was unable to provide us with further evidence about her employment when she took out the 
PPI, the adjudicator sent out a second view, reversing his original recommendation.
Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators revised view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to decide what I thinks most likely, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ns application for the store card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). Theres a brief description of the purpose of the cover. 
And it says If you would like the cover please tick and sign in this section. Theres a tick 
in the box, and Mrs N signed specifically to confirm that she wished to take the cover, in 
addition to signing the form overall. 
I acknowledge that in response to the adjudicators revised view, Mrs Ns told us that the 
sales assistant told her she had to sign for the PPI, otherwise she may not have been 
able to open the store card account. I cant know what the sales assistant said. But Ive 
borne in mind that the sale took place more than 20 years ago. And I wouldnt expect 
someone to have a clear memory of what was said so long ago. Ive also noted that 
Mrs N originally told us she applied for the card over the internet.
Im satisfied that it was clear from the application form that the PPI was optional. And 
I cant fairly decide, based purely on Mrs Ns recollection of what was said at the time, 
that the sales assistant said something which contradicted this, or implied that the 
chances of Mrs Ns application being approved would be increased if she took out the 
PPI. On balance, I think its more likely that Mrs N decided to take out the PPI knowing 
that she had a choice  although I can understand how she may no longer remember 
this, so many years later.
Based on what we know about the way these PPI policies were sold at the time, Im 
satisfied that AXA wouldnt have recommended the PPI to Mrs N. This means it didnt 
need to check that the policy was suitable for her. But it did have a responsibility to give 
Mrs N enough information to enable her to decide for herself whether she wished to take 
the cover.
Mrs Ns told us she wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay from 
her employer at the time. If shed made a successful claim on the PPI for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she 
owed on her store card. And it would have done this each month until her credit 
agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her 
claim had been repaid - whichever was the earliest. 
Taking everything into account, I think that the PPI could have been useful to Mrs N, 
especially as she's told us that she didnt have any savings or other means she could 
have used to make her monthly store card repayments if she'd been off sick, or if she'd 
lost her job.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that Mrs N chose to take out the PPI. So 
I think she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten this now. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ns circumstances at the time, Im satisfied, on balance, 
that she wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Ns told us she was working for less than 16 hours per week 
when she took out the PPI. The application form included a section on employment 
details. It asked whether the applicant or their partner was in permanent paid 
employment. Mrs N ticked the Yes box. There was a range of boxes to tick next to the 
words Your status. Mrs N ticked the Full time box. There were then boxes to fill in 
employer details. The form asked the applicant for Your employers name and address 
or that of your partners employer if you have no taxable income of your own.
Mrs N has told us that the employment details she completed on the application form 
were her husbands. After the adjudicator sent out his initial view, he asked for evidence 
of Mrs Ns employment at the time. And he asked what her annual salary was. Mrs N 
was unable to provide this information or evidence. Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Ns told us, but based on the evidence we have, 
Im not satisfied that I can fairly conclude, on balance, that she was working less than 16 
hours per week when she took out the PPI. And Im not aware of any other reason why 
she wouldnt have been eligible for the cover.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mrs N, but taking everything into account, and for the reasons 
Ive set out, I cant fairly uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman