DRN-4332067
The complaint
Mr U has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited avoided (treated it as 
if it never existed) his motor insurance policy, refused to pay his claim and wants to recover 
its outlay from him.
What happened
Mr U took out a motor insurance policy with Watford through an online brokers site with a 
named driver on the policy. When the named driver was involved in an accident, Mr U tried 
to claim on his policy. 
Watford declined his claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr U complained, it said hed answered incorrectly the question hed been asked 
about who the cars registered owner and keeper was. And it said he hadnt disclosed that 
the named driver had three previous fault claims. And that it considered this to be a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and 
refuse his claim. It also said it was entitled to recover its outlay for the other drivers repairs 
and hire from Mr U.
Mr U brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been qualifying misrepresentations. And he thought they were deliberate 
or reckless. And so he thought Watford was entitled to decline the claim, avoid the policy, 
retain the premiums and recover its outlay from Mr U. He thought Watford hadnt done 
anything wrong in deciding how to settle the claim.
Mr U doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Mr U 
said he was the cars owner and keeper but had lost the paperwork. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has told us that Watfords decision to recover its outlay from him is causing him stress 
and worry. And he says that hes not in a financial position to pay it. I was sorry to hear 
about this and I can understand that this has been a stressful experience for him. Mr U also 
said Watford didnt give him a chance to defend the claim made by the other driver. And he 
said he was the cars registered owner and keeper, but he has no evidence to show this. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Watford thinks Mr U failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that he was the cars registered owner and 
keeper. And it said he hadnt disclosed that the named driver had three fault claims within 
the previous five years. 
And Ive looked at the questions he was asked when he completed the application and agree 
he failed to take reasonable care. This is because he was asked on the brokers online 
application Are you the registered owner of the car? and Are you the registered keeper of 
the car? Popup boxes provided further information to help answer the questions if needed. 
Mr U answered Yes to both questions. 
And then Mr U was asked to provide details for himself and the named driver of:
In the last 5 years had any accidents, claims or losses, irrespective of blame in connection 
with any vehicle owned or driven by you and/or them?
Mr U disclosed that he had had one previous claim but that the named driver had none. 
And Im satisfied these were clear questions asked by Watford through the brokers site Mr U 
used. Mr U said he was the cars owner and keeper, but he said hed lost evidence to show 
this when a previous car was stolen. However, Mr U hasnt replaced the cars registration 
certificate as he could have done. So he has no evidence to show this. And I can see from 
Watfords file that the named driver said he was the cars owner and keeper. And I think this 
means Mr U failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said he 
was the cars owner and keeper. 
Mr U said he didnt know about the named drivers previous claims. But as the policy holder 
Mr U is responsible for providing accurate information about all drivers on the policy. And he 
was provided with a policy schedule stating that the named driver had no claims within the 
previous five years, but he didnt correct this. And I can see that the named driver had three 
fault claims on his record within the previous five years. And so I think this means Mr U 
again failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he said the 
named driver had no previous claims. 
Watford has provided evidence which shows that if Mr U had not made these 
misrepresentations it would have declined cover. This means I am satisfied Mr Us 
misrepresentations were qualifying ones under CIDRA. I also think Mr Us 
misrepresentations were reckless or deliberate misrepresentations. This is because I think 
Mr U must have realised that he wasnt the cars owner or keeper. And I think he should 
have reasonably checked the named drivers previous claims history, but he didnt. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Watford was entitled to avoid Mr Us policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Watford does not have 
to deal with his claim following the accident and it can retain his premiums. Also, Watford is 
entitled by the policys terms and conditions to recover its outlay for the other drives claim 
from Mr U. This is explained on page 12 of the policy booklet:If Your claim is not accepted by Us, You may be liable to repay costs already incurred by 
Us. These may include, but are not limited to engineers' fees, vehicle recovery charges, and 
vehicle storage charges.
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Watford to rely on it to avoid Mr Us policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. 
Mr U said he hadnt been given a chance to defend himself against the other drivers claim. 
But I disagree. I can see from Watfords records that he called it to discuss liability and it 
explained that it would have to settle the claim as the named driver had hit the other car in 
the rear. The named driver had responsibility to leave enough stopping room. And he 
evidently hadnt done so. Mr U asked for a week to seek legal advice. But I cant see that he 
responded further.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr U the same as someone else in his position. 
Watford is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr U to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr U has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I cant see that Watford had any evidence with which to defend Mr U against the other 
drivers claim. It thought the repairs claimed for were consistent with the accident 
circumstances. And so I think it reasonably held the named driver liable and recorded the 
claim as fault. When it settled the other divers claim it incurred an outlay of £8,493.93. I 
think Watford has reasonably offered Mr U a repayment plan to recover this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman