DRN-3087680
The complaint
Mr F complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months and was due to end in September 2020.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. MBFS asked Mr F to pay charges for 
damage and missing items. The charges included £77.61 for a missing entertainment 
remote and £255 for damage to the alloy wheels.
Mr F disputed the charges. MBFS reviewed them and removed the charge for the missing 
remote. It said the charges for the alloy wheels remained payable because the damage was 
outside of the vehicle returns standards.
Mr F wasnt happy with the response. He said he didnt think he was obliged to pay for 
repairs if no repairs had been carried out. He asked to see proof that MBFS had carried out 
repairs to the wheels. Mr F also said that the damage described in the vehicle collection form 
was different to the terminology used in the vehicle returns standards and asked for 
clarification on this. The complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the charges had been fairly applied. 
She also said that the vehicle returns standards stated that the costs of repair or the 
consequent reduction in value of the car was payable.
Mr F didnt agree. He said hed returned the car with less mileage than the contractual 
mileage and that as a result, the value of the car was higher, even allowing for a deduction 
for the cost of the damaged wheels. Mr F asked for details of the repairs carried out, or 
alternatively, details of the residual value of the car on which his payments had been based, 
and details of what the car had actually sold for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr F must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to three of the alloy wheels. 
Looking at the report and taking into account the relevant guidelines, Im satisfied that the 
damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. The photos show that the scuffs on the 
wheels are more than 50mm. The guidelines state that scuffs up to 50mm are acceptable, 
and the vehicle returns standards state that scuffs up to 25mm are acceptable.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said about the mileage on the car. I appreciate that he 
covered less mileage than the contractual mileage. Ive looked at the agreement but I cant 
find anything which says that there will be a refund or set off if the contractual mileage 
allowance isnt utilised, So Im unbale to say that the unused mileage should be set off or 
deducted from damage charges.
In relation to damage, the agreement states that Mr F either has to pay MBFSs costs of 
repairing the damage or pay charges to reflect the reduction in sale value of the car as a 
result of the damage.
Mr F has said that he doesnt think its fair that MBFS can charge him if it hasnt carried out 
the repairs. This service asked MBFS to confirm whether it carried out repairs , to which it 
responded saying that it did and provided evidence of this. The information provided shows 
that the actual cost of repairs carried out exceeded the damage charges invoiced to Mr F.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the charges 
have been applied unfairly. The damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear in line with the 
relevant guidelines and repairs have been carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman