DRN-3232044
The complaint
Mr I complains Calpe Insurance Company Limited havent treated him fairly when deciding 
liability following a claim made by another party on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr I took out a policy on 19 December 2016, which ran until 18 December 2017. On 
5 December 2017 Mr I was unfortunately involved in an accident. He says the other party 
stopped suddenly when exiting a roundabout, and Mr Is passenger told him hed seen the 
other party put on their reversing lights. The other party disputed this and said Mr I rear 
ended him.
The other partys car was inspected on 12 December 2017 and deemed a total loss. Calpe 
arranged for Mr I to give a statement to a field officer which happened in January 2018. 
After the other party received medical treatment, which went on for quite some time, Calpe 
contacted Mr I in August 2019 asking for payment of his excess of £3,000  as theyd now 
settled the claim. Mr I wasnt happy with this, so complained. He was unhappy with the 
amount he was being asked to pay, the lack of contact, and that hed been given 
contradictory information.
Calpe replied and said the claim total is £12,460.48, and the excess Mr I accepted when 
taking out the policy was £3,000. Regarding the length of time Calpe said theyd been 
chasing the other partys solicitor for a long time, and the other party had ongoing medical 
treatment which had delayed things substantially. But Mr I knew hed rear ended another car 
in December 2017 and was liable for that  Calpe added theyd given Mr I his full data file so 
he could see whatd happened. Finally, Calpe didnt agree there had been contradictory 
information given  they said Mr I was liable for this accident and for the £3,000 excess. 
Mr I wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so 
and found Calpe had acted appropriately when determining Mr I was fully liable for the 
accident and wouldnt be asking Calpe to do anything further on the claim. This meant Mr I 
would remain liable for the £3,000 excess.
Mr I didnt accept this. He couldnt understand why Calpe were allowed to pay out on the 
claim, not even interviewed his witness  and he wanted someone else to take a look at his 
complaint. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability
Its important to explain I cant decide whether Mr I should or shouldnt be held liable for the 
accident  only a court can do that. Instead, what I can consider is whether Calpe have 
reached the decision to hold Mr I fully liable fairly. I note the policy terms Mr I signed up to 
say Calpe can do this:
We can take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim, or make any claim in 
your name or in the name of any person claiming under this Policy to recover any amount 
paid by us.
Ive listened to the call Mr I had with Calpe where he told them about the incident. In the call, 
he explains the other party went to take off from a roundabout, slammed on their breaks 
without reason, and he thought the other car had perhaps rolled back to impact his car. Mr I 
said his passenger said theyd seen the reverse lights come on the other car  suggesting 
the other party had reversed into Mr I.
I can see Calpe took this accusation seriously. They instructed a field investigator to go out, 
interview Mr I, and gather other relevant evidence. Ive seen a copy of this report. In it, they 
say theres no CCTV, no witnesses other than Mr Is passenger, and the area where the 
accident happened is flat, so the car wont have rolled back. They felt it possible the other 
car had reversed into Mr I, but given no other witnesses felt itd be extremely difficult to 
maintain this. They recommended Calpe consider causation, as if the other partys version of 
events and claim for damages / potential injuries were disproven it might add some weight to 
Mr Is version of events. Overall, they felt Mr I was a credible witness, but there wasnt 
enough to support what hed said. They recommended as next steps Calpe get a report on 
the other partys car to determine the cause of the damage.
Calpe did that, and the independent engineer determined the cause of the damage was 
consistent with a rear end impact.
Later on, the other party claimed for medical costs as well as a result of the impact. Although 
this took some time, explanations were given for that. Two different doctors assessed the 
other party, and both concluded the timeline was reasonable, and the cause of the physical 
injuries were consistent with the accident as described by the other party (Mr Is car rear 
ending his).
Calpe have relied on the reports from the independent engineer who inspected the other 
partys car, and the doctors who assessed the other party as accurate. Our service isnt 
experts on these matters, so unless theres a reason to question it then I wouldnt generally 
expect Calpe to. Taking into account all of the information provided, Ive not seen any reason 
to question those reports. With that in mind, I can only say Calpe have fairly decided Mr I 
was liable in full for the accident.
I have noted Mr I raised concerns Calpe didnt try and get his witnesses statement. This was 
a work colleague who was a passenger in the car at the time. In the initial call, Mr I says this 
persons name is someone Ill call R, but then in a written statement says the name of the 
person is D. Given the information Calpe did have, and this apparent inconsistency in the 
witness who was in the car, I dont think Calpe have acted unreasonably by not getting a 
witness statement.Excess
Mr I has an excess of £3,000. An excess is defined in the policy as:
Excess means the amount You must pay towards any claim including costs. You are 
responsible for the excess even if the incident is not Your fault. The Excess applies to all 
Sections of this insurance. The Excess is comprised of the figure shown on Your Schedule 
plus the amount of any sum of money owed by You to the Underwriters in respect of any 
other claim hereunder or in respect of any previous or subsequent motor policy including any 
Excess amount owed.
Although I can understand Mr Is frustrations on this point, a claim has been made on the 
policy  and accepted by Calpe. The total cost of that claim was over £12,000. And, as Mr I 
was held liable for the accident, under the terms of the policy Ive no grounds on which to tell 
Calpe they cant ask him to pay it.
This is quite a significant amount though, so Id expect Calpe to work with Mr I to agree an 
affordable repayment plan if he says hes unable to pay it immediately.
Length of time for the claim to be finalised, and communication during this time from Calpe 
to Mr I
Mr I was also unhappy with the lack of contact from Calpe about the claim  with him saying 
there was no contact for around 18 months when, out of the blue, they asked him to pay his 
excess of £3,000.
Calpe said Mr I knew hed been in an accident in December 2017, and knew he was liable 
for it.
Ive already found that Mr I does need to pay his excess, so I wont comment on that 
element further. But I have to say I find this response to a legitimate concern by Mr I quite 
dismissive. The records sent by Calpe show Mr I is right  there was no communication 
between Calpe and him for at least 18 months.
Its clear Calpe were trying to progress the claim, and the records Mr I has been sent will 
back that up. So, I dont think they could have done more on that point. But, I dont think they 
kept Mr I updated as Id have expected. Theres been a significant period of time where 
Calpe havent been in contact with Mr I to let him know whats going on  so to say in their 
response to his complaint he knew he was liable for the accident since December 2017 
wasnt accurate. He quite strongly disputed it. And although I think Calpe have since 
reached a fair outcome on liability, I dont think theyve treated him fairly in their 
communication when reaching that outcome.
In effect, although Mr I knew hed had an accident in December 2017, hed not heard 
anything about it since (according to Calpes own notes) January 2018 before receiving the 
contact in August 2019 where hes asked to pay £3,000. In that time, although hes not said 
it, I wouldnt necessarily think it unreasonable for Mr I to have thought the matter was 
resolved.With that in mind, I think getting a bill out of the blue was distressing for Mr I, and Ill be 
awarding him compensation. Taking into account the length of time with no communication, 
combined with the demand for payment of the excess  which hed heard nothing about for 
over a year, I think £300 is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Calpe replied, and said they accept my provisional decision, and have no further comments 
to make.
Mr I replied, and said he didnt see it as fair given the timescale and distress he caused him. 
He also wanted to point out people have been calling to collect the money but think thats 
unfair as the case was with us.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr I would be frustrated and still feel my outcome isnt fair. But as Ive 
explained above, I cant instruct Calpe not to ask Mr I for payment of the excess. He was 
involved in a claim, and this excess is payable in the event of a claim.
And, although Mr I disputed the claim itself, Ive not been given anything further to say Calpe 
have done something wrong in how theyve settled it.
So, that leaves the communication from Calpe. I do think their actions were very poor here. 
But, as Ive set out above, Ive no grounds on which to tell them not to ask for repayment of 
the excess. Taking into account what Ive set out above, I still think £300 is fair 
compensation.
Ive also seen that Mr I said people have been getting in touch to ask for repayment of the 
excess. Often financial businesses like Calpe will wait until the outcome of our investigation 
before asking for repayment of money they say is owed  but theyre not required to. If they 
choose to, they can continue to ask for repayment. So, I cant say theyve done anything 
wrong, in asking Mr I to pay the excess amount.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr I £300 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman