DRN-4383068
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the settlement provided to them by Great Lakes Insurance 
SE, after they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes is the underwriter of this policy  i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of its agent. As Great Lakes has accepted its accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, covering them for various pre- 
departure and post-departure risks, between 20 July 2022 and 19 July 2023.
During this time Mr and Mrs W took a trip abroad. The trip included staying in a first country, 
before travelling to a second country and visiting a couple of locations. With the trip ending in 
a cruise, which would take them home to the UK.
During the trip Mr and Mrs W tested positive for Covid-19. Theyve explained it meant they
couldnt travel onto the second country as planned. And neither were they able to board the
cruise ship that was due to take them home. Instead, they needed to stay in the first country,
with friends, and then fly home to the UK from there.
Mr and Mrs W have explained that when they learnt they wouldnt be able to complete their
trip as planned, they contacted Great Lakes, who told them to get PCR tests, and to try and
gain refunds for parts of their trip they werent able to use. Mr and Mrs W did this  but
werent able to gain refunds for everything.
Mr and Mrs W then made a claim under their travel insurance policy. The claim included
various expenses theyd incurred. This included costs related to them being poorly  such as
Covid-19 test expenses and face masks. The claim also included costs for:
The return flight home Mr and Mrs W needed to purchase, seeing as they couldnt
return home as originally planned. And taxi fares from the airport to their house
Two unused hotels in country two
Unused flights in country two
The unused cruise
An additional suitcase and some clothing bought for the cruise
Food
A self-isolation benefit payment provided under the policy, at £20 a day.
Great Lakes accepted part of the claim. It offered Mr and Mrs W a settlement of £1,632.56.
This settlement was for the return flight home and taxi from the airport, the self-isolation
benefit, face masks and costs for taxis to and from the Covid testing location abroad. Minus
the relevant excess.
But Great Lakes didnt agree to pay for the unused costs associated with country two, the
unused cruise, additional suitcase, clothing and food. Or PCR testing.
Mr and Mrs W feel this settlement was unfair. They said they should receive settlement for 
all of their costs, under the terms of their policy. And they raised a complaint about the 
matter.
Great Lakes responded to this complaint and agreed it should pay for the PCR tests 
Mr and Mrs W had to get. So, these costs, which were £306.42 were settled  taking the 
total claim payment to £1,938.98.
But Great Lakes maintained its position on the unused hotel, flights, and cruise. As well as 
on the suitcase, clothing and food.
As Mr and Mrs W remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think Great Lakes needed to do
anything more. They said Great Lakes had acted in line with the terms and conditions of
Mr and Mrs Ws policy in terms of what it had and hadnt agreed to pay.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They remained of the opinion they were due costs for the non-
refundable parts of their trip they didnt get to use because they contracted Covid-19.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided that Great Lakes has now settled Mr and Mr Ws claim fairly. 
So, Im not requiring them to do anything differently.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W. Theyve explained how strongly 
they feel about the matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all 
information provided to me, when deciding this complaint. However, when explaining my 
decision, Ive only referred to that which is necessary to explain my reasoning. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it agreed 
to settle £1,938.98 for Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
I also reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws policy, to see what cover it provided. On doing so, I can see
there is only one section of the policy that is applicable for claims related to Covid-19. This
being Section 19, Covid-19 cover. The rest of the policy doesnt apply for claims related to
Covid-19.
This is made clear in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which explains
Covid-19 isnt covered unless specified in the policy wording, as well as in the general
exclusions section, which explains the same.
Section 19 provides cover for certain medical and repatriation expenses. Great Lakes has
now settled all the medical expenses Mr and Mrs W claimed for, as well as the travel costs
for returning to the UK  this being the return flight and taxi home. As these elements of the
claim arent disputed, I havent needed to consider them further.
Instead, Ive needed to consider the outstanding costs Mr and Mrs W feel are covered under
section 19. Section 19 also covers cancelling or cutting short a trip. In relation to this, the
section says it provides cover for the cost of irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation
costs, where the insured cant travel, and use booked accommodation. But as is usual with
insurance policies of this nature, this is only in certain circumstances.
For costs to be covered under that part of the section, they loss needs to have been caused
by one of the events listed in that part of the section. If the loss wasnt caused by one of
those listed things, then the costs arent covered, and the policy doesnt respond.
The section lists situations such as being diagnosed with Covid-19 in the 14 days prior to the
departure date, being denied boarding on outbound travel or being unable to continue of pre-
booked excursions due to being ordered to self-isolate by a government authority.
Ive considered whether any of the things listed here apply to Mr and Mrs Ws situation. But
they dont. As they dont apply, then it follows that the pre-booked and unused travel and
accommodation costs Mr and Mrs W are claiming for here arent covered. And so, Im
satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly in declining those elements of Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.In terms of the suitcase and clothing  its my understanding these were bought for the
cruise part of the trip, and werent used as intended, given Mr and Mrs W unfortunately
werent able to travel home via cruise. But the policy doesnt provide cover for the need to
purchase a suitcase, so each person had their own suitcase. Or for buying clothes that
couldnt be used due to Covid-19. And Im aware the policy also doesnt provide cover for
food as Mr and Mrs W have claimed for, under Section 19. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes
acted fairly in not settling those costs.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes has acted fairly in the way it has now 
settled Mr and Mrs Ws claim. So, I dont require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything 
more in relation to this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman