DRN-1634071
 
The complaint
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL) sold this policy, but St Andrews Insurance Plc has 
accepted responsibility for the sale. Because of this, St Andrews has also agreed it is 
responsible for the complaint. To make things easier Ive referred to St Andrews throughout 
my assessment.
Mr B says he was mis-sold a Bill Protector insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out the policy in 2001 around the time he was taking out a loan. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which provided cover if Mr B couldnt work because of disability or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he didnt want the policy and suggests he was pressured into buying it. 
Unfortunately, there are gaps in the information thats still available from 2001. While I dont 
find that surprising given how long the sale took place, it does make it more difficult to 
determine with any certainty what happened.
That said, I just havent seen enough evidence to show undue pressure was applied to Mr B 
to buy the policy. And while theres nothing to show he was told it was optional and that he 
actively chose to have it, equally theres nothing to show that wasnt the case. 
So, I dont uphold the complaint on those grounds. 
St Andrews says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr B. Mr B also says no recommendation 
was made. If that was the case, St Andrews didnt need to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B. But it did have to provide information that was enough so that Mr B could 
decide for himself if the cover was right for him. 
I dont know how clear St Andrews made the key information to Mr B, but I dont think that 
better information would have put him off the policy. I say this because, without a copy of the 
policy terms from the time but from experience of what they likely said:
Mr B would have been eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been significantly 
affected by any of the terms which might have excluded or limited the cover.Mr B said he was entitled to full pay for up to six months if he was off sick, 
redundancy pay and had a small amount of savings to fall back on. But the policy 
benefits paid out in addition to his employers pay and for up to 12 months per claim. 
The benefit also might have allowed him to retain his savings or put them to another 
use, such as covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. Overall, I think Mr B 
would have found the policy provided useful additional protection.
The policy was flexible in that Mr B could have cancelled it at any time, and at no 
extra cost, if he no longer wanted it. And I cant see any reason to think hed have 
found the premium unaffordable, despite what hes said about struggling financially.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Bs lost out because of how St Andrews sold 
him the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman