DRN-3377168
The complaint
T complains it had limited use of its group private medical insurance policy during the Covid-
19 pandemic, and AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly refused to refund its premiums.
What happened
T has a group private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (hereafter 
AXA). It made three complaints about the provision of AXAs services during the Covid-19 
pandemic, but as Ts first and second complaints werent referred to us within six months of 
AXAs corresponding final response letters, they fell outside of this services jurisdiction.
Ts third complaint was referred to us in time and it is this complaint that my decision 
concerns. Both parties are aware of the detail of Ts third complaint, so Ill only summarise 
what happened. 
T complained that AXA hadnt been able to provide a service under its group policy when a 
beneficiary needed treatment. T also said the policy didnt hold any value with regard to the 
premium paid either and AXA should refund some if not all of the premium paid. 
AXA responded and said it appreciated the availability of private facilities had been impacted 
in part by the pandemic. But it said there had been times throughout the policy year in which 
such facilities had been available and, when they werent, itd continued to pre-authorise 
treatment for when they were available again. AXA said it had launched an additional suite 
of services for its policy holders in response to the pandemic too. And that it would be doing 
an independent review to establish any rebate due to customers in due course.
AXA also said it had confirmed coverage for a consultation and diagnostics tests through the 
group policy. And it said that if, as T had advised, one beneficiary had paid for private 
treatment and another needed such, those individuals should get in touch with its claims 
team to see if their treatment was eligible for cover. 
Unhappy with AXAs position, T referred its complaint to this service
Our investigator didnt think Ts complaint should be upheld. They explained that the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic was outside of AXAs control and AXA had provided additional 
services for its policy holders to make sure it continued to provide a service. Our investigator 
also said AXAs course of action in relation to the rebate was fair and reasonable, and AXA 
had actually paid for and authorised claims under the group policy during the policy year. 
T disagreed and said it hadnt been told that there would be changes to the policy prior to 
renewal. It reiterated its concerns about AXA not providing a service when a beneficiary 
needed treatment, and it said AXA should have invoked the force majeure clause if it wanted 
to rely on the pandemic as the reason behind it not providing a service. T also reiterated its 
position surrounding a premium refund and asked that its complaint be considered again by 
an ombudsman. 
So, the matter is now for me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of arguments have been put forward, my findings will only address those 
that I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. Having considered everything I will 
not be upholding Ts complaint for the following reasons:
Many private hospitals were taken over by the NHS as part of the wider responses to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. That affected some of the provisions insurers such as AXA 
were able to provide, but as has been rightly explained, that was due to the 
unforeseen and unprecedented impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and was outside of 
AXA control. So, Im satisfied AXA should not be held accountable for it.
Despite that impact, AXA continued to authorise and pre-authorise treatment for its 
policy holders. It provided additional provisions for its policy holders too, and given 
both parties are aware of what those were I wont recite them again here.
I know that T says the policy didnt provide any value in relation to the premium paid 
for it, and AXA was in breach of the policys terms by not providing it with a service, 
but as I noted above AXA did not stop operating its policies. Looking at Ts policy 
specifically, AXA paid for two consultations. It also pre-authorised cover for a 
consultation and diagnostic tests. And when T told it one beneficiary had paid for 
private treatment themselves and another had a potential hip problem, AXA asked 
that the beneficiaries contact its claims department to see what cover would be 
available. So again, I remain satisfied that AXA did provide a service under Ts 
policy. 
T also says AXA should have invoked the policys force majeure clause if it wanted to 
rely on the pandemic as a reason preventing or hindering it from providing its 
contracted services. But as I noted above, AXA did continue to provide a service 
under Ts policy so I am not persuaded that clause applies here. 
At the time of Ts complaint AXA explained it would pass back any exceptional 
financial benefit as a result of the pandemic to its customers, by way of a rebate 
following independent review. AXA referred to this as its customer promise. I think 
the approach it explained it would be taking at that point was reasonable, and I am 
not aware any reasons that meant T should have been given any preferential 
treatment with regard to that approach over and above other AXA policy holders. 
For the reasons given above Im not persuaded I can fairly direct AXA to refund 
either some, or all, of Ts premium. T may be further disappointed by my findings, but 
this decision now brings to an end what this service, in trying to resolve Ts current 
dispute with AXA, can do for it. 
If T has new concerns about the communication it says it has since received about 
the customer promise/rebate, it will need to direct those to AXA in the first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman