complaint
Mrs C says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This decision is about 6 loans Lending Stream provided Mrs C between November 2016 and 
September 2018. Mrs C lending history, based on the information provided from Leading 
Stream, is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
118/11/2016 26/05/2017 6 £500.00 £185.50
215/08/2017 24/10/2017 6 £900.00 £388.80
323/11/2017 26/05/2018 6 £600.00 £259.20
407/04/2018 27/09/2018 6 £490.00 £350.80
511/05/2018 15/05/2018 6 £470.00 £407.20
627/09/2018 outstanding 6 £1,150.00 £387.00
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Cs complaint and felt that Lending Stream shouldnt have 
lent her loan 6 and so upheld Mrs Cs complaint about this loan. Leading Stream responded 
with an offer but Mrs C rejected this offer so, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Leading Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mrs C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
DRN-1644679repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required 
to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint. In our most recent review of 
this case adjudicator didnt think that loans 1 - 5 should be upheld. Neither party responded 
with any reasons why they dispute this, so I havent considered these loans further in my 
decision. But I have thought about these loans in the context of the overall lending 
relationship.
Having reviewed Mrs Cs overall pattern of lending with Lending Stream, Ive 
considered whether there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful for Mrs C. And so, 
Lending Stream should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Cs case, I think that this point was reached 
by loan 6. I say this because I think at this point Lending Stream ought to have realised Mrs 
C was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. This was Mrs Cs sixth loan with Lending Stream and the amounts borrowed were generally not decreasing over this time - 
Mrs C's first loan was for £500.00 and loan 6 was for £1,150.000. So, I think at this point, 
Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and 
that Mrs Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Also, Mrs C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Lending Stream. Loan 
6 was taken out around 22 months after Mrs Cs first. And loan 6 was for a much larger 
amount than her first. So, Mrs C paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Lending Stream over an extended period.
So, I think that Mrs C lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing 
from loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
 
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 6 and Lending Stream should put things 
right.
putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mrs C paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mrs Cs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC, 
trading as Lending Stream, should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
 Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman