DRN-3408645
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 12 December 2019 Mr E visited a consultant orthopaedic and sports physician in relation
to back pain. He was due to fly to a country Ill refer to as A the next day. Having had a
steroid injection during the appointment, he travelled as planned to A. Theres a record of
him attending an appointment with a physician for an MRI scan on 13 December 2019. The
notes say that hed been experiencing severe leg pain for three days.
On 16 December 2019 Mr E underwent a lumbar microdiscectomy in A as he was
experiencing severe back pain. Mr E went to recuperate on an island some distance away
from A. Ill refer to that island as G. A few weeks later Mr E began to experience severe pain
and sought urgent medical assistance. He was diagnosed with sepsis.
Mr E chartered a private plane and was evacuated back to A, where he was admitted for
urgent treatment. Mr Es surgeon was on holiday some distance away. So, Mr E chartered a
private plane for the surgeon to be brought to the hospital so he could perform emergency
surgery. The operation went ahead the following day. Mr E was discharged from hospital on
13 January 2020 but needed daily intravenous antibiotic treatment. He stayed in a hotel near
the hospital until he returned to the UK at the end of February 2020.
In March 2020 Mr E made a claim on his travel insurance policy for $164 000 for the various
costs hed incurred whilst he was unwell. He also claimed on a private medical insurance
policy and the insurer has paid around $22 000 towards the cost of his treatment. IPA
declined the claim and Mr E raised a complaint. IPA maintained their decision to decline the
claim and so Mr E made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think it was unreasonable for
IPA to decline the claim. She thought that there were signs of a problem with Mr Es back
before he left the UK and it was reasonable to foresee that Mr Es surgery and sepsis could
have occurred. And, she thought Mr E should have contacted his travel insurer so that they
could have advised him about his options.
Mr E didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He challenged some of
the facts that the investigator had referred to and provided further information from his
medical team. In summary, he argues that there is no policy term which says that IPA wont
pay a claim because there was something wrong with the policyholder before travel. And he
said that it wasnt reasonably foreseeable that non-specific back pain would lead to invasive
back surgery and sepsis. 
In February 2020 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mr Es complaint. I said: 
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Under the Medical Assistance and Expenses section of the policy the terms and 
conditions say IPA will not cover:
Costs for treatment not approved by Our Senior Medical Officer, unless 
immediately necessary to prevent serious detriment to Your health or save 
Your life, or treatment that is or was in the sole opinion of Our Senior Medical 
Officer unnecessary or unreasonable in the circumstances, or not in 
accordance with recognised practice
Treatment that Our Senior Medical Officer considers can be reasonably 
delayed until Your return to Your Country of Residence
Costs after the date Our Senior Medical Officer tells You that You should 
return home
Costs where You have refused to follow the advice of Our Senior Medical Officer.
Treatment that was planned or could reasonably have been foreseen, before 
Your Trip.
 any costs incurred that would not be made in the absence of insurance, for 
example costs that are unnecessary or unreasonable in the circumstances, or not 
in accordance with recognised practice.
Was Mr Es claim fairly declined?
Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I say that because:
Mr E first consulted with a physician in A on 13 December 2019, which was the day of 
his arrival. The first surgery took place on 16 December 2019. Ive seen no persuasive 
reason why Mr E couldnt have contacted his insurer before his admission to hospital 
for significant spinal surgery. And I also havent seen evidence that this procedure was 
reasonable and necessary treatment that couldnt be delayed until his return home.
Had Mr E contacted IPA they would have been in a position to assess the claim and 
offer guidance and assistance to him. Theyd have also been able to mitigate their 
costs and expenditure, for example by liaising with the hospital directly and/or 
utilising agency relationships. Its standard industry practice for an insurer to require 
policyholder to notify an insurer of any potential claim in order for them to approve 
medical costs. Ive seen no good reason why Mr E didnt contact his insurer before 
the initial surgery took place and I think his failure to do so has significantly 
prejudiced the insurers position in the circumstances of this case.
Even if I accepted there was a good reason for Mr Es failure to contact his insurer 
prior to the surgery, he also didnt contact his insurer afterwards. Based on the 
evidence hes provided he was well enough to travel on to G. So, I think there was a 
reasonable opportunity to contact his insurer to inform them of the position and seek 
their input and authorisation for the treatment so far and his plans to travel to G. 
Theyd also have had the opportunity to confirm that they wouldnt have covered any 
complications from the surgery if he continued his trip, particularly as G is somewhere 
where access to emergency medical treatment can be limited. The insurers position 
on this is consistent with the fact that Mr E decided to return to A for treatment.Ive taken into account the medical reports from the doctor that saw Mr E whilst he was 
in G. The report of the 28 December describes Mr E as an alert and healthy man. It 
was a further two days before Mr E was diagnosed with sepsis. Whilst I appreciate that 
Mr E was in pain, I think it would have been reasonable for him to contact his insurer 
during that period of time to let them know that he wasnt feeling well and to discuss 
his options. So, based on the available evidence I think there was a period of time, 
before Mr E became very unwell, that he could have contacted his insurer. And I think 
it would have been reasonable to seek their input before arranging a chartered flight 
back to A and arranging to fly his surgeon in to operate. I also note that Mr Es son 
was at the hospital with him when he was admitted.
Im therefore satisfied that there were a number of occasions when Mr E could have 
contacted his insurer. He didnt do so until he returned home. I think this has 
prejudiced IPAs position as theyve had no opportunity to mitigate costs incurred by 
Mr E or seek contemporary medical evidence about the need for treatment, where 
that treatment should take place and who should provide the treatment
The costs incurred were therefore not approved by IPA and under the policy terms I 
think they can reasonably decline the claim based on the policy terms.
A lot of representations have been made about whether Mr E was suffering from a 
pre-existing condition when he travelled. Mr E argues that it wasnt foreseeable back 
pain would lead to the need for surgery and then sepsis. Even I accepted that 
argument, which I dont, I still wouldnt uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive 
outlined above and because I dont think theres any fair and reasonable grounds 
upon which I would direct IPA to pay the claim.
Inter Partner didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr E made a number of further 
representations. In summary he said:
My decision proceeded on the assumption that Mr E notified his insurers of the 
illness/claim was in March 2020 and that the total claim was for $164 000. 
There was no basis for Mr E to do so because his private medical insurance 
company authorised the procedure and covered the full cost of it. There was no 
reason for Mr E to contact IPA 
Mr E is only claiming for costs and expenses incurred after the point at which 
he developed life threatening sepsis
My conclusion that the original surgery was not necessary or reasonable isnt 
supported by the medical evidence - this has been dealt with by his health 
insurance provider 
Mr E didnt expect to incur any further costs when he travelled after his surgery. 
He didnt anticipate any reason to claim 
Mr Es condition deteriorated rapidly. All the actions he took were necessary to 
save his life. The policy wording supports that Mr Es position that he wasnt 
required to seek pre-approval in such circumstances 
There is no basis for concluding that IPA had been prejudiced by reason of any 
delay in notification of the claim. All the items claimed for were deemed 
medically necessary by Mr Es treating doctorsI had not set out my reasons for not accepting Mr Es argument in relation to 
the foreseeability of him needing treatment abroad. It was extremely rare for 
someone to develop sepsis in such circumstances and there was medical 
evidence in support of this. Mr E asked me to explain why I thought it was 
appropriate to depart from this. 
So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the further evidence and comments from Mr E I havent changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I say that because: 
I dont agree that there was no basis for Mr E to contact his travel insurer simply 
because hed arranged his initial treatment via his private medical provider. Mr E was 
abroad, unwell and was seeking significant medical treatment. I therefore think it 
would have been fair and reasonable for his travel insurer to be notified of the 
circumstances, even if Mr E intended to claim on his medical insurance policy. This 
would have enabled the insurer to be in a position to offer guidance and support
Mr E has clarified that hes only claiming for expenses incurred after he developed 
sepsis. And he says that he considered the matter resolved at the point he travelled 
from A to G. I can understand Mr Es position on this matter, but I remain satisfied 
that his insurer has been prejudiced by his decision not to let them know of his plans 
to travel to G. As I outlined in my provisional decision G is a location where access to 
emergency medical treatment is limited. And, even if the complications of the surgery 
are rare, I still think its most likely that the insurer wouldnt have recommended Mr E 
to travel there at that time, given that he was recovering from major surgery. The 
insurer didnt have the opportunity to offer any guidance or support in relation to this. 
Had they done so I think its likely theyd have recommended Mr E didnt travel to that 
location. This would have avoided the associated costs Mr E incurred to return to A 
when he became unwell
Mr E says that his condition deteriorated rapidly once he was in G. However, as I 
said in my provisional decision I remain satisfied that there was a window of 
opportunity where Mr E could have contacted his insurer. As I set out in my 
provisional decision I have seen a medical report dated 28 December which 
describes Mr E as an alert and healthy man. It was a further two days before Mr E 
was diagnosed with sepsis. Whilst I appreciate that Mr E was in pain, I remain 
satisfied that it would have been reasonable for him to contact his insurer during that 
period of time to let them know that he wasnt feeling well and to discuss his options, 
and before chartering a flight to A. So, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Mr E was so unwell throughout the relevant period that he could not 
have contacted his insurer, or arranged for someone to do so on his behalf 
I also remain satisfied that Mr Es insurer has been prejudiced by the failure to notify 
them of the potential claim. That includes, but is not limited to, the usual industry 
practices of cost containment and utilising agency networks. For example, the insurer 
had no involvement in arranging the flight to A, deciding which treating facility to send 
Mr E to and/or involvement in his treatment plan. I remain satisfied that its most likely 
that their lack of involvement in the transfer and treatment of Mr E has meant that 
they were unable to contain their costs in the usual way. Had they been aware of the claim they could, at the very least, been able to work with the hospital to manage 
their costs and clarify what treatment they considered to be reasonable and 
necessary
Mr E makes the argument that his treating team did what was medically necessary. 
But its not uncommon for patients who are admitted without the involvement of their 
insurer to receive less favourable costs rates. Thats why it is standard industry 
practice for insurers to seek to cost contain, particularly in A, and usually by using a 
network of established agency relationships. Its also common for insurers to 
exercise their discretion to repatriate consumers back to UK to contain their costs. 
For example, as I outlined in my provisional decision Mr E was discharged to a local 
hotel for a period of around six weeks. In such circumstances its unlikely that IPA 
would have agreed to cover any such associated costs and would have repatriated 
Mr E to the UK via the appropriate means to continue his treatment at home 
I have not disregarded the medical evidence in relation to the rarity of patients 
developing sepsis following the surgery Mr E underwent. I have taken this evidence 
into account when reaching my decision and I am not departing from that evidence. 
Rather, in my view, the crux of this case is that the insurer at no point had the 
opportunity to manage or contain the claim. So, even if I accepted that Mr Es 
condition wasnt foreseeable, I dont think its fair and reasonable to uphold the 
complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above and in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman