DRN-1567649
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that West Bromwich Building Society (West Bromwich) mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A bought a regular premium MPPI policy in March 1993 alongside a mortgage. 
The policy covered Mr A only against unemployment, accidents and sickness. The mortgage 
and policy ended in or before 1998.
Mr and Mrs A say they were not told PPI was optional. They say they were not told it could 
be cancelled. They say they were told by an advisor that there was a chance their 
application for a mortgage would be refused if they didn't take it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
West Bromwich say it cant be sure where the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs A say they can't 
either but they have said the policy was sold face to face. So as Mr and Mrs A have been 
able to recall that it was sold face to face, I will proceed that the policy was more likely than 
not sold in a meeting in a West Bromwich branch. 
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr and Mrs As complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs A say they were told by an advisor there was a chance that their 
mortgage application would be refused if they didn't take PPI and that they were not 
told it was optional.
 
I acknowledge what Mr and Mrs A have said about this. I cant be sure exactly what 
was discussed between Mr and Mrs A and West Bromwich when the policy was sold. 
Im also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
 West Bromwich hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was 
sold. Thats not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen. 
 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs A have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by West Bromwich during that time, I cant safely 
conclude that West Bromwich didnt make them aware that the policy was optional 
and that they chose to have it. 
 
Moving on, West Bromwich has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs A 
during the meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I 
will proceed that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs 
A, it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr As needs as the 
policy holder. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr A based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr A 
says he would have been able to use his 6-12 months full sick pay along with 3 
months savings. But the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any provisions 
he would have had and for longer. So the benefit would have been of use to Mr A 
during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to pay for other expenses. 
I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs A had a need for this cover based on 
their circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for Mr A either.
 
West Bromwich has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
policy that Mr and Mrs A took out but even though it has provided information 
detailing how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr 
and Mrs A in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly I dont think Mr and Mrs A would have done anything different and 
decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
 
Its possible West Bromwich didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs A wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
This has been a difficult decision to make and I understand this will come as a 
disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.Mark Richardson
Ombudsman