DRN-2480748
The complaint
Mr B complains about the charges that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited t/a Audi 
Finance applied when he handed back a car hed acquired under a hire agreement.
Mr B also complains about the service he received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited t/a Audi Finance.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr B entered into a hire agreement with Audi Finance to acquire a car. On its 
return at the end of the agreement, an inspection was carried out on the car. Mr B says the 
inspector identified two damages that fell outside of the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. Mr B says that one of the damages was 
a small mark which he offered to fix but wasnt given the opportunity to do so. And the other 
damage was made worse by the inspector rubbing the paintwork.
Mr B says Audi Finance appointed a third party to chase him for the outstanding amount and 
he says this has caused him a great deal of stress. Mr B also says that he has received poor 
customer service from Audi Finance  he has tried to contact Audi Finance several times but 
he says theres often no response to his emails. Mr B says he is prepared to pay for one of 
the damages, but isnt prepared to pay for the damage he says was made worse by the 
inspector.  
Audi Finance explained that the level of damage to Mr Bs car fell outside the fair wear and 
tear guidelines. As a result, they said Mr B would be charged a total of £152.40 to cover this 
damage. 
Mr B remained unhappy with Audi Finances response so he brought his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She said Audi Finance hadnt done 
anything wrong in charging Mr B for the damage to the car as they had fairly charged him in 
line with the BVRLA guidelines. She also explained that Audi Finance had offered Mr B £25 
as a gesture of goodwill for the poor service he received and that Audi Finance had a legal 
obligation to chase for the outstanding balance on the agreement.
Mr B accepted the £25 gesture of goodwill that Audi Finance offered in recognition of the 
poor service he received. But didnt accept our investigators view that Audi Finance had 
fairly charged for the damage. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage to the car
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs hire agreement include a clause which says: You agree 
to return the Vehicle to us at the end of the Hiring Period in good repair and condition except 
for fair wear and tear (as defined in the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide, which we will send to you if you ask us).
Mr B was charged for the following two items of damage (taken from the vehicle inspection 
report):
1.Bumper rear Scuffed Specialist repair £42.00
2.Door RHF Right Hand Front 
Door1st scratch per vehicle Refinish £110.40
The BVRLA have produced industry guidance to help determine what a finance company 
can charge for when a car is returned. This is the starting point for me as it represents good 
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. Ive taken this guidance into account when 
deciding whether Audi Finance acted fairly and reasonably in this case. Ive looked at the 
photos of the damage from the inspection report provided by Audi Finance and make the 
following findings on the items of damages from the above table:
1. The photo in the report shows a scratch on the bumper in excess of the accepted 
level of damage in the BVRLA guidance as it appears to be more than 25mm. The 
BVRLA also allows for a maximum of four scratches on one panel. I can see from the 
photo in the inspection report that there are more than four scratches on the bumper. 
So, I think Audi Finance have fairly charged for this damage and I dont think the 
amount being charged is unreasonable in this instance.
2. I can see the photo in the report for this damage shows theres a scratch on the door 
which measures over 25mm. And I can see that the scratch shows the bare metal 
underneath the paint of the car. Therefore, this level of damage is also in excess of 
the accepted level of damage in the BVRLA guidance. So, I think its fair for Audi 
Finance to charge for this damage.
I understand Mr B has said he is prepared to pay for damage 1 but not for damage 2  he 
says this damage was made worse by the inspector rubbing this particular area of the car. 
Whilst Im not doubting what Mr B has told us, generally speaking, a scratch like this one 
(which shows the bare metal of the car) isnt consistent with someone rubbing the area. So, I 
wont be asking Audi Finance to remove this charge.
Customer service delivered by Audi Finance
Mr B has told us he tried to contact Audi Finance several times via email and telephone but 
wasnt able to reach them. Mr B says he feels he is being ignored by Audi Finance. Audi 
Finance have told us due to recent unprecedented times, they werent operating at a usual 
level and that their phone lines werent in operation. 
Im really sorry to hear of the inconvenience this caused Mr B. Audi Finance have 
acknowledged they didnt respond to some of Mr Bs emails. So, in recognition of this, Audi 
Finance have apologised and have agreed to pay Mr B £25 as a gesture of goodwill, which 
Mr B has accepted. So, I dont need to consider this further.
Mr B being chased for the outstanding amount
Mr B says he was told by Audi Finance that he wouldnt be chased for the outstanding 
amount and that this debt wouldnt be passed to a third party. But he has continued to receive letters advising him of the outstanding amount he needs to pay, which hes found 
stressful.
Audi Finance have acknowledged that they shouldve put a hold on the debt letters that were 
sent to Mr B when he raised his complaint with them. But that a letter had gone out in error 
before the final response letter was issued. Audi Finance have also said when Mr B called to 
query this letter, he was told that hell continue to receive letters as the system sends them 
out automatically but that no recoveries will take place. I understand another debt collection 
letter was then sent to Mr B after the final response letter was issued. Audi Finance say once 
they issue their final response letter on the matter, they would proceed with their normal 
collections activity. 
I can understand why this was worrying for Mr B  especially as I think Audi Finance could 
have made it clear to Mr B that they would resume normal collections activity after the final 
response letter had been sent out. Audi Finance have offered Mr B £50 compensation in 
recognition of the debt collection letter incorrectly going out to him. I think this is fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. I note Mr B has since accepted this offer as a resolution to 
this part of his complaint.
I can see Audi Finance told Mr B in a letter in May 2020 (after the final response letter was 
issued) that his details were being passed to a third-party debt collection agent. And that the 
third party would contact Mr B at a convenient time to discuss the options available for him. 
So, I think they made it clear to Mr B at this point the debt had been passed to a third party. 
I appreciate Mr B has told us he continued to receive letters asking him to pay the 
outstanding amount by the third-party debt collector. Until the outstanding amount is paid, Mr 
B may find that he does continue to receive contact about this amount. And I dont think this 
is unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited t/a Audi Finance should pay Mr B in total £75 compensation, if they havent done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman