DRN-3167445
The complaint
Mr H and Ms K complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined their claim 
on their home emergency policy.
References to Mr H or Ms K will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of IPA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to IPA.
What happened
Mr H had an infestation of bees at his home and made a claim on his home emergency 
policy for removal of the bees.
IPA said that bees were excluded under the terms and conditions of his policy and therefore 
declined his claim.
As Mr H was not happy with IPA, he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She looked into the complaint and was 
satisfied the intended meaning in the policy is that bees are excluded from cover and did not 
think that IPA had made a mistake.
As Mr H is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the wording within the policy documentation.
In the home emergency policy booklet it says
Pest infestation: Removal of mice, rats, wasps, hornets and cockroaches where 
evidence of infestation in your home has been found
Bees are not included in this list.
It also says in the You are not covered for the following section:
4. Any infestation by any protected species including bats and bees
Mr H says that the wording in the policy regarding the exclusion of bees is irrelevant given 
that bees are not a protected species. He says that bats are protected, and bees are not, 
and so the wording should be changed to say Any infestation by any protected species and 
bats and bees. He wants IPA to agree the policy covers the removal of bees.
I accept that Mr H says that bees are not a protected species, as bats are, but this does not 
mean that they are covered under the policy. In the details of this policy bees do not appear 
in the list of pests that are covered and are only referred to under the exclusion. 
I understand that Mr H feels that the policy wording is ambiguous, however our service is not 
able to tell an insurer what it can or cannot include in its policy documentation. Our role in 
this case is to decide if we feel that IPA unfairly declined Mr Hs claim based on the 
information detailed in the policy documentation. 
I do not consider that IPA has been unclear in its policy wording. And do not agree that the 
removal of bees is covered under the terms of Mr Hs home emergency policy.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr H and Ms Ks complaint and do not agree that IPA unfairly 
declined their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman