DRN-1683610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the service they received from Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading 
as Yorkshire Bank) when applying to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were looking to move home in 2018. They approached Clydesdale that 
October, with a view to porting (transferring) their existing fixed rate mortgage product.
Initially, Mr and Mrs H had also wanted to borrow some additional funds. But their application 
was declined. So they decided to proceed using only their existing mortgage balance. A 
second application was made in December 2018. That application was approved and 
Clydesdale issued a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs H on 29 January 2019. The mortgage, 
and Mr and Mrs Hs purchase, duly completed the following month.
Mr and Mrs H complained about the service theyd received. They were unhappy with the 
time it had taken to get a decision on their application, noting delays caused by their 
mortgage advisers absence from the office. This had been particularly troubling, they said, 
as they were working to a deadline of 8 February  which Clydesdale knew. 
Mr and Mrs H were also unhappy that they only found out about certain costs (an 
arrangement fee of £499 and a valuation fee of £400) during an interview on 22 January. 
They said theyd not budgeted for these costs, but learning of them so late in the day left 
them little choice but to go ahead  depriving them of the ability to make an informed 
decision about the mortgage.
Clydesdale upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It accepted that some delays had been 
caused by the advisers absence. While it said it couldnt have told Mr and Mrs H about the 
arrangement fee until the application had been processed, it said it shouldve advised them 
of the fee for the valuation when it was arranged. Clydesdale paid Mr and Mrs H £200 by 
way of apology.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy. They responded to Clydesdale to say that while the 
customer service issues had been resolved, the matter of the fees hadnt. They wanted 
these reimbursed. As Clydesdale refused, Mr and Mrs H referred their concerns to us.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He accepted that the fees hadnt been 
properly explained to Mr and Mrs H when they ought to have been. But he didnt think that 
had prejudiced their position. The fees had been legitimately charged, and he didnt think 
that Mr and Mrs H wouldve done anything differently if theyd known about the fees any 
earlier. He noted that this wouldve added to what was an already stressful situation, but he 
thought the £200 that Clydesdale had already paid was fair compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view. They still didnt think the compensation 
went far enough, as in their view the bank had held a gun to their heads and needed to be held accountable for that. And they said they wouldve taken a mortgage elsewhere if theyd 
been told of the fees in good time. So they wanted Clydesdale to refund them the £899. 
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have raised a number of issues in their correspondence with Clydesdale and 
our service about this matter. But I understand that their sole concern now relates to the 
fees, so thats what Ive focused on in my decision.
Clydesdale has already accepted that Mr and Mrs H ought to have been advised of the 
valuation fee earlier than they were. I agree. The valuation was instructed on 4 January 
2019. So Clydesdale ought to have told Mr and Mrs H what theyd have to pay before this 
date  but I cant see that they did. I have no reason to doubt Mr Hs comments in this 
respect, so I dont think they knew about the £400 fee until the interview on 22 January.
The position is less clear with the arrangement fee. Clydesdale says it couldnt clarify the fee 
until the application was processed  so again, Mr and Mrs H only found out about this fee 
on 22 January. Im not convinced Clydesdale couldnt at least have given Mr and Mrs H an 
indication of what the likely fee would be at an earlier stage. And it seems the reason they 
found out as late as they did is down to delays in getting the application processed  for 
which the bank has acknowledged responsibility.
So I think Clydesdale made an error in failing to notify Mr and Mrs H of the requisite 
valuation and arrangement fees at an appropriate point in the application process.
Ive gone on to consider how to fairly compensate Mr and Mrs H for what went wrong. Our 
approach to compensation is to put the complainant in the position they would be in if the 
error hadnt occurred. So here, Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H would most likely have 
done if theyd been told of the fees earlier. Having done so, I think they would probably have 
proceeded with the port. Ill explain why.
When the application was started, Mr and Mrs Hs preference was to keep their mortgage 
with Clydesdale and port their existing fixed rate product. I can see theyve been long-
standing customers of the bank and Im sure thats contributed to why they feel so 
disappointed about whats happened here. But winding the clock back to the start of the 
application, these issues hadnt arisen (other than the refusal of their request for additional 
borrowing, which evidently wasnt enough to push them to seek a new mortgage provider).
From a financial point of view, a major benefit of porting is the avoidance of the early 
repayment charge (ERC) that typically applies when redeeming a mortgage thats subject to 
a preferential rate. If Mr and Mrs H had gone ahead with a different lender, they wouldve 
incurred an ERC of 2% of their mortgage balance. In this respect I note Mr Hs comments in 
his initial letter of complaint:
We knew we could get a mortgage elsewhere  However, as we were only 17 
months into a 24 month fixed rate, we faced early termination charges of 2% of the 
outstanding mortgage so we decided to focus on either a new YB mortgage or porting 
the existing one  porting was probably the preferred option.So I think avoiding the ERC was a key factor in Mr and Mrs Hs decision-making, and it 
wouldve continued to be. And that makes sense. The ERC wouldve been around £1,300  
more than the two fees at issue here combined. Mr H thinks that figure includes the 
discharge of security fee (£195) that he had to pay anyway  but thats not right. Theyre 
separate fees, and both wouldve been incurred if hed redeemed this mortgage.
Its not just a matter of comparing the ERC (around £1,300) and the two fees (£899). Both 
arrangement and valuation fees are common across the majority of mortgage products 
available on the market. There are some fee-free deals, although that benefit is usually 
offset to a degree by the rate on offer. In other words, Mr and Mrs H would probably have 
had to pay these fees in order to get a competitive rate  or if theyd found a fee-free 
mortgage, they mightve ended up with a higher interest rate.
Taking all of this into account therefore, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs H would still 
have proceeded to port their Clydesdale mortgage product if theyd known about the fees 
earlier. As I think they would always have paid the fees, theres no basis on which I could 
fairly require Clydesdale to refund them.
Thats not the end of the matter, as its clear that the issues caused Mr and Mrs H some 
understandable upset. 
As Mr and Mrs H have explained, they hadnt budgeted for these sums  £899 was a 
significant amount to have to find at fairly short notice, and likely impacted their other plans. 
I can see how they felt they had little option but to proceed: while in theory they couldve 
pulled out, in practice that was never going to be a realistic option for them for many 
reasons. And so they understandably felt their hands had been tied. 
All of this has evidently upset Mr and Mrs H, and it added to the stress of what is already a 
notoriously taxing process at the best of times. So its right that theyre compensated for this. 
But to that end, I think the £200 that Clydesdale has already paid is a fair amount. I know 
Mr H thinks this figure needs to be higher to hold the bank to account. But our awards arent 
designed to fine or punish businesses. I think the amount is in line with what wed typically 
award for compensation in complaints of this nature. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H as I understand they feel very strongly about 
this issue, Im not requiring Clydesdale to take any further action.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc has already paid Mr and Mrs H £200 and I think that's fair 
compensation in all the circumstances  so I don't require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman