DRN-3651814
The complaint
Ms C complains about delays and difficulties by Experian Limited after she raised errors with 
the address format recorded on her credit file. 
What happened
Last summer Ms C moved to a new home and has told us she updated her address with 
Experian. But Ms C later found the address format wasnt correct. 
Ms C contacted Experian to dispute the address format in October 2021 but was told the 
information had been updated. Ms C later complained after finding mistakes persisted on her 
credit file. Further responses from Experian shows it had added a flat number, despite Ms C 
living in a house. 
Over the following weeks Ms C asked Experian to call her about the address format but 
there were delays getting in touch. And Ms C also pointed out shed been incorrectly linked 
with an unrelated address on her credit file. Experian didnt agree it had made mistakes but 
offered Ms C £50 to resolve her complaint.  
In January 2022 Ms C highlighted further mistakes with her address and referred the matter 
to this service. An investigator considered Ms Cs complaint and upheld it. They thought 
Experian had taken steps to resolve the address format issue around the start of 2022 but 
felt it took too long to resolve matters. The investigator said Experian should ensure Ms Cs 
address format is correct and pay her a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Experian accepted and confirmed the address format was now correct. Ms C didnt agree 
the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused was fair. As a result, Ms Cs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An approach our rules allow 
me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this approach. 
I can see the address format issue was raised with Experian over the course of several 
months. And Ms C has pointed out she was given repeated and incorrect assurances the 
issue had been fixed on Experians systems. I accept the situation went on for a long time 
and can understand why Ms C is upset at the service provided. 
But I need to take both parties comments into account. Experian says the issue was 
resolved at the beginning of the year after it received an electoral roll update. And Ms C 
hasnt told us about further ongoing problems with her address format that persist. Experian 
has also told us the address format issues didnt impact what other businesses saw when 
reviewing Ms Cs credit file. Experian says the address format is cosmetic only. And Ms C 
hasnt told us about any long term impact or financial losses that were caused. So whilst I 
agree the issue went on for a long time, I havent found evidence that shows a significant 
wider impact or costs for Ms C. 
The investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint and asked Experian to pay her a further £200  
taking the total award to £250. In my view, that figure fairly reflects the length of time the 
issues persisted and overall impact on Ms C. So Im going to uphold Ms Cs complaint and 
direct Experian to pay her a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and direct Experian Limited to pay her a total 
of £250 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman