DRN-3680959
The complaint
Miss N complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) didnt reimburse the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, Miss N was the victim of a scam. Miss Ns parents were abroad, and she 
booked them two tickets for a flight back to the UK as the country they were in was to be 
placed on the UKs red list. 
Miss N had been given the details of a travel agency from her uncle. On 4 April 2021, Miss N 
contacted them via telephone and bought what she thought was two tickets for 6 April 2021. 
The tickets were business class and the combined cost for both tickets was approximately 
£1,730. Miss N paid £409.52 via card and paid the remaining amount of £1,321.32 via bank 
transfer.
Miss N received email confirmation / invoices for the flights. Later on in the evening Miss N 
went to carry out the check-in on behalf of her parents and found that she couldnt, and from 
this it materialised that she had in fact been scammed and there wasnt any genuine tickets 
that had been purchased. Miss N tried contacting the travel agency with no success. 
Miss N then tried to reach out to Metro that evening but says the lines were closed. So she 
reported the matter the following morning on 5 April 2021.
Metro logged the details and investigated the matter. It raised a card dispute for the payment 
Miss N had made via card. This amount was subsequently refunded to Miss N.
With the bank transfer Miss N had made, Metro explained it contacted the beneficiary bank 
(the bank where the funds were sent to) and it had informed Metro that no funds remained 
that could be recovered. 
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
CRM Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro said 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. It said it gave a scam warning and that 
Miss N made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the business with 
whom she transacted with was legitimate. Metro considered Miss N didnt carry out any 
checks to make sure it was a legitimate seller.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ns complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Metro had fairly assessed Miss Ns claim under the CRM
Code. They didnt think that Metro had provided an effective warning prior to Miss N making 
the payment. And they didnt agree that Metro had been able to establish Miss N made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing the business with whom she transacted 
with was legitimate.
Metro responded to the Investigators opinion. On the basis the Investigator had concluded 
that the warning it provided wasnt as effective or specific as it could have been, Metro felt 
both parties were therefore liable and considered 50% reimbursement fair. But it maintained 
its position that Miss N should share some responsibility as she hadnt carried out any 
checks before making the transfer. 
Our Investigator reviewed this and remained of the opinion Miss N should be reimbursed, in 
full, under the provisions of the CRM Code. They considered it wasnt unreasonable for 
Miss N to rely on her uncles recommendation in contacting the travel agent. And even if 
Miss N had carried out some additional checks online (which they didnt think was merited), 
there wasnt anything that would have given her reason to think the company wasnt 
genuine. They also considered Miss N wouldnt have been given any reason to doubt that 
she wasnt speaking to what she thought was a genuine travel agent. And having carefully 
considered the price for the tickets they didnt consider it was too good to be true  whereby 
it should have given Miss N any cause for concern or doubt that things might not be as they 
seemed. So they considered that no exception to reimbursement applied.
Metro asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as the matter hasnt been resolved it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro should have refunded the money Miss N 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Metro should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss N 
lost.
Metro should also pay interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple 
per year. This interest should apply from the date Metro first declined to refund 
Miss N under the CRM Code, to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If Metro declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for Metro to 
establish that its customer failed to meet the requisite level of care under one, or more, of 
the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code itself. Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; orthe customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
After having carefully considered all of Metros submissions, Im satisfied that Metro has not 
shown that Miss N made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
business with whom she transacted with was legitimate or that she ignored an effective 
scam warning. I will go on to explain why I have reached this finding.
Metro, in response to our investigators opinion, considered 50% reimbursement was fair  
as it considered Miss N made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
business with whom she transacted with was legitimate as she hadnt carried out enough 
checks.
So all that is left for me to consider in this complaint, is whether Miss N had a reasonable 
basis of belief when making the payment.
Did Miss N have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Miss N was looking to get her parents flights back to the UK before the country they were 
staying in was placed on the red list. Miss N was recommended a travel agency from her 
uncle. I consider this to be perfectly reasonable in the circumstances. It is not uncommon, 
and many consumers place weight on a recommendation from friends and family. And 
importantly, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to not have thought much beyond this  
such as carrying out any further additional checks. Im also mindful that even if she had done 
a simple internet search the travel agency would have been shown. 
Miss N used the details she was given and spoke to whom she thought was a travel agent. 
Miss N booked flights and received the invoices / flight details. Metro argue that the price 
was too good to be true. I disagree. Miss N, through the card payment and the bank transfer, 
was paying £1,731.52 for two one-way business class tickets. Our investigator considered 
the price aspect and carried out some research. Metro was provided with the details and 
prices of similar tickets the Investigator had found. Having carefully reviewed this, Im 
satisfied the price wasnt too good to be true and certainly not to an extent whereby it ought 
reasonably to have given Miss N a cause for concern.
 
Overall, Im satisfied Miss N had a reasonable basis for believing the business with whom 
she transacted with was legitimate and Im also satisfied that Metro hasnt established any of 
the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply here. It follows that Metro should 
reimburse Miss N for the losses she suffered.
I appreciate Miss N was frustrated that she tried to contact Metro on three occasions on the 
evening on 4 April 2022 and says the lines were closed. The number Miss N has told us she 
called is for Metros fraud department. And Metro says this operates 24 hours a day, 365 
days a year. Metro says it has no record of any contact from Miss N prior to 5 April 2022. I 
have no reason to doubt either party here. And Im not sure what happened and why Miss N 
was unable to get through.
 Miss N thinks that had she been able to get through there was a strong possibility that the 
payment could have been stopped. I can certainly understand Miss N thinking this. However 
with faster payment bank transfers, they are near enough instant, and fraudsters typically 
move the funds on straight away before any possible recovery is attempted. So even if 
Miss N had got through on the evening of 4 April 2022 Im persuaded that it is more likely 
than not that it wouldnt have made a difference as the funds were likely to have already 
been received and moved on by the fraudsters. And in any event, within my findings above 
Ive concluded that Metro should have reimbursed Miss N under the provisions of the CRM 
Code as no exceptions to reimbursement apply.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Ns
complaint about Metro Bank PLC. I therefore require Metro Bank PLC to pay Miss N:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £1,321.32; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Metro Bank PLC 
originally declined Miss Ns claim under the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
I direct Metro Bank PLC to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Miss Ns acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman