DRN-2766332
The complaint
Mr M complains that Friends Provident (FP) transferred his Protected Rights from his 
pension to an annuity provider without his knowledge or consent. He feels he has lost out on 
a guaranteed benefit as a result. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is now responsible for 
FPs actions and this complaint.
What happened
In 2012, at age 55, Mr M wanted to access his benefits and his funds were transferred to an 
annuity provider where he received an enhanced annuity rate. Evidence shows that Mr M 
received £22,293.65 in tax free cash and £66,880.96 was transferred to provide the annuity, 
so he used benefits worth £89,174.61.
Mr M says he was under the impression only his Non-Protected Rights had been transferred 
and he still had the right to his Protected Rights Pension. 
In 2019, Mr M started making enquiries into his Protected Rights. He approached Prudential 
in August 2019 as he thought his Protected Rights had remained with them. As this wasnt 
the case, he then approached the annuity provider who told him they never received 
Protected Rights from FP. Mr M then contacted Aviva who told him they didnt hold any 
further funds for him. By the time Mr M transferred his pension to the annuity provider, 
Protected Rights had been abolished and all his benefits must have been taken together. 
Aviva says a partial transfer wouldnt have been possible.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service. He said he would have 
never agreed to take his Protected Rights. He also pointed to a letter by FP from 2012 which 
indicated that the sum taken in 2012 (around £89k) was entirely from Non-Protected Rights. 
He says he was mis-led.
Aviva raised objections to this service investigating the complaint as they thought it had been 
brought outside the regulators time limits. These stipulate a complaint needs to be brought 
within six years after the event complained about or, if later, no later than three years from 
the point the complainant ought to have reasonably been aware they had cause for 
complaint.
Our investigator agreed with Aviva. He said Mr M complained in 2019 which is more than six 
years after the event he is complaining about, i.e. the transfer in 2012. And his pension 
statement in 2011 had shown that his pension was valued at £88,320.95 (£63,617.71 of non-
protected rights and £24,703.24 in Protected Rights), so he should have been aware when 
he received £89,174 in benefits less than a year later in spring 2012 that his Protected 
Rights and Non-Protected Rights had been combined. The investigator thought Mr M ought 
to have been reasonably aware straight away in 2012 that he had not consented to this and 
so the three year limit would have ended in 2015.
Mr M disagreed. He said he only was aware that he didnt still have his Protected Rights in 
2019 when he made enquiries with Aviva, the annuity provider and Prudential. If he had 
known he had taken his Protected Rights he surely wouldnt have made those enquiries. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained that on the evidence available I could see 
how Mr M would have thought he only took part of his pension and not have been aware he 
had cause for complaint until 2019 when he started to make enquiries about his Protected 
Rights. So I thought the complaint had been made within the relevant time limits.
However I provisionally decided it shouldnt be upheld. I asked both parties for further 
comment.
Aviva didnt have anything further to add.
Mr M disagreed with my decision and provided further comments and information which I 
thank him for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither of the parties disagreed with my findings on jurisdiction, so Im not going to address 
this further. 
With regards to the merits of Mr Ms complaint I said the following in my provisional decision:
I first looked at whether I think Mr M received everything he was entitled to and based on 
the information available I think he did. Theres no evidence that any funds were kept back 
by FP or later Aviva. And looking at the value of Mr Ms entire pension in 2011 and the 
benefits he eventually received in 2012, I think its plausible that the benefits Mr M took were 
his combined Protected and Non-Protected Rights.
When Mr M originally requested the transfer in early 2012 Protected Rights still existed, but
by the time he actually transferred a few months later they had been abolished. So they
were treated the same, i.e. they were all Non-Protected Rights. So the statement he
received was correct. He received 25% tax free cash of the whole sum and the rest was
used for an annuity. 
Mr M seems to think the Protected Rights would have given him a Guaranteed Minimum
Pension (GMP), however theres no indication this is the case here. Mr M would have had a
GMP entitlement in his occupational pension and when this was transferred to a personal
pension, these benefits became Protected Rights. There were certain restrictions around
Protected Rights benefits until April 2012, for example when buying an annuity with these
benefits they would have to include a spouses pension. But the entitlement to a GMP is
different to this. A GMP was generally lost when a DB pension was transferred to a personal
pension which wasnt a Section-32 Buy Out Plan-which I cant see was the case here.
FP didnt have to ask for Mr Ms specific permission or consent to transfer his Protected
Rights, even when they still existed. Mr M says he would have left his Protected Rights
invested. However, Aviva have confirmed that a partial transfer wouldnt have been possible
which isnt uncommon. So even before Protected Rights were abolished, Mr M wouldnt
have been able to transfer only his Non-Protected Rights to buy an annuity on the open
market -which I understand allowed him to get a more favourable enhanced annuity rate and
leave his Protected Rights with FP. Given that he obviously wanted to access benefits in
2012 and a better rate was available elsewhere, on balance I think its more likely than not
he would have transferred anyway even if he had known he was using all his benefits.
I sympathise that Mr M misunderstood he still had some of his pension and has now foundout he hasnt. However, based on the information available I cant see that FP treated Mr M
unfairly or that he was given any misleading or incorrect information.
In response to my provisional decision Mr M said in summary:
He had continuous problems with FP. They delayed the transfer in 2007 and put 
money in the wrong funds and continuously promised to send correct details of 
pension performance but failed to do so. And they failed to have his pension in place 
by his 55th birthday in 2012 like he requested.
FP never mentioned that his Protected and Non-Protected rights had been 
combined. They misled him by stating his pension fund was greater than it was.
When he applied to take his pension he was specifically told that his GMP fund would 
remain with FP. This was a specific request as Mr M wanted to make sure his wife 
would still receive an income when he died, particularly as he had health issues and 
possibly a lower life expectancy
Mr M says hes owed redress for the distress FP caused him and the loss of the 
financial package for his wife.
I carefully considered Mr Ms points and the additional documents he provided. However, my 
decision remains the same. Any problems Mr M had with FP in 2007 and delays caused in 
2012 werent part of this complaint and so Im not going to comment on this further. 
I dont know whether Mr W was explicitly told that his Protected and Non-Protected Rights 
had been combined; possibly not. However, unless specific instructions were given that only 
part of the fund should be used to provide benefits, I wouldnt have expected FP to raise this 
as an issue. 
I appreciate Mr M says he was told his GMP fund (which I take to mean Protected Rights as 
Mr M didnt have a GMP as I explained previously) would remain with FP and that he did 
give special instructions. I dont know what was discussed with FP at the time and Im sure 
Mr M is providing his honest recollections. However, its also possible that he misremembers 
after so many years and due to the policy being closed for such a long time, paperwork is 
limited. Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence that Mr M was told his Protected Rights 
would remain with FP. And Aviva have said that a partial transfer wasnt possible. So I cant 
say that on the balance of probabilities Mr M was told part of his fund would remain with FP.
In any event, I dont think Mr M is in a different position now than if he had known about the 
combination of his funds. As explained, Mr M wouldnt have been able to keep his Protected 
Rights with FP and only transfer his Non-Protected Rights to buy an enhanced annuity. And 
on balance I think he would have transferred his pension to access higher benefits even if he 
had known he was using all his pension fund. So he always would have been in the position 
he is in now.
I understand that Mr M feels he has lost out and I dont doubt that he has found this matter 
distressing. However, based on the information provided by both parties I cant see that FP 
treated him unfairly or misled him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman