DRN-1515564
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) hasnt offered a fair value 
for his car following an accident which led to his car being written off.
What happened
Mr T insured his car with Admiral. In March 2019, his car was involved in a total loss 
accident. Admiral offered £13,900 to settle the claim, less the policy excess. 
Mr T complained  he wasnt happy with this as the same car couldnt be bought for that 
amount. Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. They explained theyd taken the highest market 
valuation from three motor trade guides when determining the market value of his car. 
Theyd also sent an independent assessor to value his car as Mr T was unhappy with the 
valuation. The assessor valued it at £13,700. 
Mr T brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into matters and thought 
the offer made by Admiral was fair so she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr T disagreed. He feels the insurance should place him in a position of being able to 
replace the car like for like. He doesnt believe the settlement offer does that and says this 
leaves non fault drivers out of pocket. Mr T also raised a number of points which he feels 
need to be taken into account in the valuation including:
the maintenance of his car; 
the value of it being higher in the warmer months rather than when it was valued; and
the retention amount he paid to the insurer to take the car back.
 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful at this point to explain that our service doesnt give an exact value of Mr Ts 
car. Instead, we consider if the amount offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I have to tell Mr T that I think the investigator has reached a 
fair outcome here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Where a car has been damaged, Admirals terms and conditions say the following.
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers recommendation.
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or items 
claimed for...
The policy terms define market value as follows.
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, in 
this matter, theyve determined to be £13,900 less his policy excess. Admiral referred to the 
trade guides to obtain a value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt 
unusual. We would use a similar approach and the same trade guides to help decide if a 
settlement offer is fair when valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
persuasive evidence of market value, mostly because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures.
Admiral used the higher figure of the three guides it used when making its settlement offer 
for the claim. I can see that our investigator checked the motor trade guides we use for cars 
of the same make, model, age, condition, extras and mileage as Mr Ts at the date of its 
loss. These checks found that Admirals offer was within the range of the valuations provided 
by the guides. So I dont consider Admiral has acted unfairly in reaching the value it has.
Mr T says a similar car cant be bought for the sum Admiral has offered. He feels this is the 
basis on which Admiral should settle the claim. However, Mr T is basing this on cars that are 
currently for sale. And an asking price isnt always the selling price - sometimes the 
difference can be several thousand pounds. So I dont think I could reasonably hold Admiral 
responsible if the same make and model isnt currently available or if third parties are asking 
more than the market value. Mr T hasnt given any persuasive evidence that the market 
value of the car is wrong. And its the market value thats due under the terms of the policy.
Finally, Im not ignoring what Mr T has said about the value of his car being higher in the 
warmer months. But, as already explained, the value that is payable under the terms of his 
insurance is that at the time of its loss. Whilst I note that Mr T said hed improved his car with 
maintenance, we dont think maintenance increases the value of a car. And the retention 
amount paid by him to take back his car is a separate matter to the valuation. So these 
points dont affect the settlement offer made by Admiral.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Admirals settlement offer for the market value 
of Mr Ts car at the time of its loss was fair according to our approach and the policys terms 
and conditions. So I dont require Admiral to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman