DRN-4127086
The complaint
Mrs D and Miss D complain about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage) declined a claim and cancelled their motor insurance policy. They are 
represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to them throughout.
What happened
Mrs D and Miss D had a motor insurance policy with Advantage, which was a policy covering 
multiple vehicles in the same household.
Miss D was involved in an incident in her car and it was significantly damaged.
The police attended and breathalysed her about 40 minutes after the incident. She provided 
a specimen that was higher than the specified limit and was arrested. At a police station she 
then gave a second specimen which was under the limit. She was then released by the 
police.
Miss S made a claim from Advantage. It declined her claim and referred to this exclusion in 
the policy wording:
4. Alcohol and drugs
You're not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive under 
your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or drugs in the country 
where the incident happens
Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether 
prescribed or not
Advantage cancelled the policy. It gave them a refund of £40 against a premium paid of 
about £1,700.
Mrs and Miss D complained. Advantage said it had acted fairly. It said because shed blown 
over the limit at the roadside, it was entitled to reject her claim.
They remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They ask that 
Advantage pay the claim and remove the cancellation marker its applied to both of their 
details. Miss D also says the cancellation has increased her premium and that shes been 
supported by her friends and family to get around. She says she has been left in a difficult 
financial position.
Our investigator looked into their complaint and upheld it. He said he didnt think it was fair 
for Advantage to decline the claim based on the first breathalyser test, because this test isnt 
used for evidential purposes in criminal court. He thought Advantage should pay the claim, 
remove records of its cancellation from any databases and pay £150 compensation for Mrs 
and Miss Ds distress and inconvenience. 
Advantage didnt agree with the view. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In later correspondence with this service, Mrs and Miss D have confirmed that Advantage 
has now settled their claim for the damage to their car.
Ive not been provided with details of exactly what Advantage has offered and paid to Mrs 
and Miss D, but it leaves me with the remaining issue of their distress and inconvenience to 
consider. In doing so, Im going to talk about the process Advantage has gone through with 
this claim, but clearly I dont now need to tell it to handle the claim in a particular way.
Ive thought carefully about the situation Miss D was in when shed crashed her car. I can 
see from the file that the attending police breathalysed her and that she was over the limit. 
Weve not been given details of the reading.
When she gave the second sample, which was about an hour and thirty minutes after the 
accident, her reading was lower than the limit. The level used by the police would be the 
lower of those taken, and I can see this was 20. The legal limit is 35, so Miss D was released 
from custody.
Advantages position seems to be that Miss D must have been over the limit when she had 
the crash. But I dont agree. The police has provided evidence clearly stating that she wasnt 
over the limit shortly afterwards and crucially its this evidence that states Miss D was under 
the prescribed limit used in Advantages policy wording.
So I dont think it was fair of Advantage to decline the claim for this reason. 
In correspondence with this service post-view, Advantage has also referred to Miss D being 
unfit to drive. But it has provided no evidence of this. It has made various allegations about 
the conduct of Miss D following the incident and makes somewhat spurious claims about the 
rate of alcohol absorption into the bloodstream. 
Ive considered its arguments and I dont think they are useful or fair. 
So, because Advantage has no evidence to show that Miss D was either unfit or over the 
prescribed limit, it follows that I think it declined her claim unfairly.
Consequently, I also dont think it was fair for Advantage to cancel Mrs and Miss Ds policy. 
It seems to me that the fair thing to do here is that Advantage pay Miss Ds claim, which I 
understand it has already done. I think it also needs to remove details that it cancelled their 
policy from their records, and any external database it has updated.
I mentioned above that Mrs and Miss D continue to be affected by Advantages decision to 
not pay their claim and cancel the policy. They should contact their current insurers and 
update them about my decision, once Advantage has confirmed it has carried out my 
instructions. Ive also thought carefully about the impact of this, and particularly on Miss D. Taking 
everything into account, I think the figure of £150 compensation is appropriate for Mrs and 
Miss Ds distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Remove records of it cancelling their policy from Mrs and Miss Ds records and 
confirm this had been done, to them.
Pay Mrs and Miss D £150 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. If 
Advantage has already paid this, then it can be discounted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman