DRN-3681021
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded her in full after she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms K was contacted by scammers claiming to be from her internet provider. 
Shed been expecting a call from this company as shed reported poor service. The 
scammers told Ms K she was experiencing poor service because hackers were accessing 
her network and trying to access her bank accounts. The scammer convinced Ms K to 
download software which gave them access to her device.
The next day the scammers called again and said she needed to go into branch and remove 
£20,000 from her account. She says the scammers had manipulated her account to make it 
look as though an additional £20,000 had been credited so she didnt think she was 
removing her own money. They told her she needed to withdraw £20,000 in cash in branch 
and pay this back to the account it came from  the scammers account. The scammers told 
Ms K she would need to lie to bank staff about what the money was for because she was 
involved in a high level operation to catch the hackers that were targeting her.
When Ms K went into branch she was questioned by staff about the payment and told them 
the money was for a family member in financial difficulty. Staff went through a checklist 
asking her several questions about the payments and providing warnings about fraud and 
scams but she continued with the payment. After this, the scammers continued to ask Ms K 
to move money from her accounts and she recognised the situation was a scam.
Ms K contacted Lloyds but it didnt feel it was responsible for her loss. She brought the 
complaint to our service and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They didnt think 
Ms K had a reasonable basis for believing what the scammers had told her, but they also 
didnt think Lloyds had evidenced shed ignored any effective warnings in this case.
Lloyds accepted the investigators findings but Ms K didnt. She felt she was acting 
reasonably in accepting what shed been told by scammers. The complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for Lloyds to establish that a customer failed 
to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the 
CRM Code. Those exceptions are;
the customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made, 
and;
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Did Ms K ignore an effective warning?
Lloyds has said it did provide Ms K with an effective warning in this case. And I think it ought 
to have given one due to the size of the transaction Ms K was carrying out. When she made 
the withdrawal in branch it asked her the questions outlined on a standard checklist used 
with high value transactions. Its said this warning was effective as defined by the CRM code 
but having considered it carefully I dont agree.
I think Ms K was asked a number of questions that related to her circumstances broadly and 
I think the conversation as whole ought to have impacted her belief in what the scammers 
had told her and Ive said more about this below. But overall I dont think the warning was 
impactful due to the amount of different scams talked about and the amount of questions she 
was asked which largely seemed to be around who she claimed she was sending the money 
to and why. And, although Lloyds has said the conversation specifically involved telling Ms K 
her internet provider wont ask her to move money, I havent seen sufficient evidence this is 
the case as this isnt what the checklist provided says.
Overall, as I dont think the warning can be defined as effective under the code I dont think 
this exception applies.
Did Ms K have a reasonable basis for believing the scammers?
Ive considered very carefully what Ms K has said about the scam itself. In particular her 
strength of feeling that the manner in which the scammers explained the situation to her was 
convincing, particularly as she felt she didnt have a good knowledge of what techniques 
they could use on her computer to convince her. But overall I dont think she had a reasonable basis for believing what the scammers told her. In reaching this conclusion Ive 
taken the following into account:
Ms K has said scammers told her that £20,000 had been deposited into one of her 
bank accounts. Its not clear if she thought this was deposited by hackers who were 
targeting her money or by the people who were trying to catch the hackers. Its also 
not clear what reasons were given for why this had been done. She was then asked 
to go into branch and move the money in person as this would help her internet 
provider catch the hackers. I understand the scammers were likely quite persuasive, 
but I dont think Ms K has been able to provide any plausible explanation that 
explains why she would need to do this or how it helped her internet provider catch 
online criminals they said they knew the identity of. Even if it was plausible she was 
helping with a high level investigation, I think it ought to have stood out to her as 
concerning she was being asked to move money herself in order to try and catch 
someone else who was reportedly trying to steal her money.
Ms K accepted the scammers story that they were involved in a high level fraud 
investigation with her bank. Its not clear to me why she thought her internet provider 
would be working to protect her bank accounts. But, I think it ought to have 
concerned her that throughout this story she was told she wasnt allowed to speak to 
her actual bank at any point. I think it ought to have seemed even more concerning to 
her that she was then told she needed to lie to her bank when she withdrew money 
from her account.
Ms K has said shes received lots of phishing emails in the past regarding 
cryptocurrency and from reliable sources that informed her that her details had been 
compromised and this added to her belief in what the scammers had told her. In 
particular shes mentioned an email from her insurance provider which she says 
informed her that a policy had been taken out in her name without her knowledge. 
Weve asked Ms K for evidence of the emails shes said corroborated the scammers 
story and added to her belief in the scam, but she hasnt provided these.
Whilst I dont think Lloyds provided an effective warning as defined by the CRM code, 
Ms K had a lengthy conversation with someone in branch about fraud and scams 
where the details of the type of scam shed fallen victim to were essentially explain to 
her. She was asked if shed been asked to move money and was told no 
organisation would ask her to do this. She was asked, within the context of scam 
warnings, whether shed been asked to download anything, let anyone take control of 
her computer and if shed been told to move money shed been overpaid. I think this 
conversation, together with the other points Ive mentioned above ought to have 
impacted Ms Ks belief in what she thought she was doing.
After Ms K gave the scammers access to her device, they manipulated her screen to 
make it appear as though money had been transferred to her account. And I accept 
this is a sophisticated measure and understand why she found this persuasive. But, 
according to the information she provided to the bank when she reported the scam, 
the scammers told her there would be a delay in this money showing on her balance. 
Its not clear whether Ms K was given a plausible explanation for this and it seems at odds with how direct transfers generally work. I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Ms K to have checked her balance when she was at the bank or before she withdrew 
the money to try and verify this credit given how unusual the circumstances were and 
given the other concerning factors Ive mentioned above. Or, if she believed the 
money would be added to her balance after shed carried out the transfer, its not 
clear why she couldnt wait until the money appeared if she was helping with an 
investigation.
Ms K has said she thinks she did have a reasonable basis for belief, and much of this seems 
related to the skill of the scammers to socially engineer her. Essentially their manner and the 
conversational techniques they used whilst speaking to her. And I have taken into account 
that scammers are very good and very convincing when speaking to their victims as a 
starting point. But Id also expect a reasonable person to look for confirmation of what theyre 
being told before moving large amounts of money to a strange bank account.
Ms K has expressed several times that throughout her interactions with the scammers she 
did have concerns and did ask them to verify what they were telling her. She asked to speak 
to more senior people and was provided with false staff numbers. But I dont think these 
things reasonably ought to have reassured her given the magnitude of what she was being 
asked to do.
Id also point out that this scam took place across several days. And whilst I accept there 
was a degree of pressure and urgency placed upon her, I think this fell away overnight after 
the first scam call. The scammers didnt ask her to move money until the following day. I 
think this gave her time to reflect on what she was being told away from the scammers 
influence.
Ive considered whether or not Lloyds did enough to try and recall the funds from the 
receiving bank once it was alerted to the scam. I can see it did contact the receiving bank in 
this case straight away and according to its records the response received was that the 
funds could not be returned. Theres nothing more I wouldve expected Lloyds to do in this 
case.
Putting things right
Lloyds is liable for 50% of Ms Ks loss. It should reimburse her for this (£10,000) plus 
interest.
It appears that £15,000 came from another account Ms K held with Lloyds. So interest 
should be payable on £7,500 at the account rate (or at 8% if a current account). Interest on 
the remaining £2,500 should be paid at a rate of 8% as this money was in her current 
account.
Interest should be paid from 9 July 2022, when Lloyds answered the complaint and ought to 
have refunded her loss, until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay the settlement Ive outlined 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman