DRN-2608588
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he says he was given by Wise Speke Financial Advisers 
(the actions of which Brewin Dolphin Limited now takes responsibility) in 1992 to transfer his 
defined benefits (DB) pension to a personal pension. He questions the suitability of that 
advice. 
What happened
In 1992 Mr R transferred benefits in a DB pension to a personal pension with a new pension 
provider. He says he did this after receiving advice from Wise Speke Financial Advisers 
(WS).
Mr R complained to Brewin Dolphin (BD). BD said it did not have enough information to 
arrive at a conclusion with respect to his complaint.  
Mr R then referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. 
She believed the complaint should be upheld. She said there was not a great deal of 
evidence from the time the alleged advice had been given. But, bearing in mind what she 
had seen, she thought it was more likely that Mr R had been given advice by BD to transfer 
the pension. And she didnt think that advice was suitable bearing in mind Mr Rs 
circumstances. So she suggested that BD carry out a redress calculation.  
BD did not accept the investigators assessment. In summary, it said that it didnt believe the 
evidence suggested that WS had given any advice about the pension transfer. The evidence 
suggested it didnt obtain any information about the pension being transferred  which 
indicated that advice was not given. There was no information in respect of a 2000 Pensions 
Review and it was unusual that another DB pension Mr R held was not reviewed or 
transferred at the same time. If the adviser had given advice it would be likely that this 
pension would be included. BD asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, I agree that the complaint should be upheld for 
materially the same reasons as discussed by the investigator. 
The investigator considered the evidence that indicated, more likely, Mr R was given advice 
to transfer. But for completeness I have seen:
That Mr R has said that he was given advice to transfer his DB pension.
A letter dated 9 January 1992 from WS to Mr R which confirmed it had written to his 
DB pension provider to obtain details of the scheme. It also discussed Mr R taking 
out life assurance.
An illustration from the pension provider chosen as the destination for the DB transfer 
value, setting out what return could be expected from the personal pension at certain 
growth rates.
A letter dated 31 January 1992 from WS to Mr R which set out the transfer value for 
his DB scheme. It also set out:
As explained during our meeting, the Protected Rights element has to be separately
purchased for your Guaranteed minimum pension at sixty-five; the balance of 
£24,206 can purchase a Personal Pension and a Clerical Medical illustration is 
attached. Unlike your previous employers scheme, benefits can be taken at any age 
between fifty and seventy-five; this single premium Personal Pension can "stand 
alone" against any future pension provision you may have with future employers. I 
am not privy to the scheme's details in the (DB) Pension Scheme, however I think 
that the only main disadvantage, if you transferred, would be the removal of your 
guaranteed (probably 50%) spouse's pension benefits and perhaps you might be 
able to clarify this point for me.
Nevertheless, should you die prior to the retirement date (in this illustration, at age
sixty), the current value of the fund is returnable to your Estate. I am attaching 
Clerical Medical's literature; from which you will note they are very much one of the 
market leaders in this type of single premium personal pension. I myself, would 
recommend that you purchased the "With Profits" and Mixed Fund on a 50/50 basis. 
No doubt, you may wish to discuss this with me personally.
A letter dated 10 March 1992 from WS to Mr R supplying an illustration from the 
pension provider which was suggested as receiving Mr Rs DB pension benefits. It 
asked for him to return forms so that the transfer could go ahead. 
A letter dated 9 April 1992 from WS to Mr R asking him to sign forms so that the 
transfer could go ahead.
A letter dated 11 May 1992 from WS to Mr R which confirms how his pension funds 
had been invested now that the transfer had completed. It also asked Mr R if he had 
considered life assurance to replace benefits given up through the transfer. 
Confirmation from the pension provider that received the DB transfer that WS had 
contacted it in February 2000 requesting information as part of a Pension Review. It 
also said that its records indicated that, The selling agent was Brewin Dolphin 
Ltd/Wise Speke London.
I have also seen confirmation that WS was to receive a commission payment in respect of 
the transfer.  
In my view the evidence suggests it is more likely than not that Mr Rs version of events is 
correct - in that WS gave him advice to transfer his DB pension. WS refers to conversations 
and meetings with Mr R in relation to his DB pension. It also obtained details of his DB 
pension and illustrations in respect of transferring that pension and suggested the way in his 
money should be invested when he transferred. The strongly suggests that it was advising 
Mr R about the pension transfer. It also likely received a payment for that advice. 
I believe that the approach to the pension provider in 2000 by WS as part of a prospective 
Pension Review also suggests that WS gave a recommendation to transfer. If it had not 
done so and felt it was not responsible for that transfer then I would question why WS would 
make such an approach.    The fact that Mr R may have had another pension that was not transferred is not persuasive 
evidence, given the other evidence, that WS didnt give advice. 
So bearing in mind that I believe Mr R was given advice to transfer his pension I have gone 
on to consider if that advice was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr R says that the consequences of him transferring, or the benefits he was giving up, were 
not explained to him at the time the advice was given and he does not believe he should 
have been advised to give up his DB scheme. 
I have not seen any evidence of detailed recommendations from WS setting out the 
advantages and disadvantages of transferring from the DB scheme, or why it was thought in 
Mr Rs best interests to transfer. 
The evidence indicates that Mr R had about five years deferred benefits in a DB scheme. Mr 
R has confirmed that at the time the advice was given he was married with a young child. Mr 
R says the adviser focused on the growth prospects of the personal pension. He says those 
looked attractive and it seemed the right thing to do to transfer given the advisers advice. 
And he also says that his employment prospects at the time were not good, he had no other 
income and he had one other preserved pension which related to five years service in 
another pension scheme. 
DB or Final Salary occupational pension schemes typically have significant benefits and 
guarantees, such as a guaranteed level of income, guaranteed increases in payment and 
guaranteed increases for deferred pensions. In Mr Rs case, in addition to those benefits, the 
scheme also provided spouses pensions. Giving up those benefits and subjecting future 
pension income to the risks associated with volatile investment returns should only be done 
where it can be evidenced that this is clearly in the best interests of the consumer. 
In terms of maximising growth, there was no guarantee that transferring Mr Rs DB pension 
would improve his situation. The transfer actually transferred the risk of providing benefits 
from the DB scheme to Mr R  as he was now dependent on the fortunes of his own 
investments.
Therefore there was a significant risk that, even assuming considerable positive annual 
investment returns, any increase in benefits would not be achieved and there was the real 
risk the benefits would be less. That would include any tax free cash to be supplied.
In transferring Mr R no longer had any of the guarantees discussed, pension increases or 
dependants benefits and would be dependent on investment performance from the personal 
pension scheme. The DB pension made up a significant amount of his pension benefits at 
that point and it would not normally be advisable to give up those benefits. I have not seen 
that Mr R had experience of taking the kind of risks this transfer presented. He was not 
financially sophisticated and I believe he would have been entirely dependent on WSs 
recommendation. And that recommendation was to transfer. 
Overall, Mr Rs circumstances do not suggest he was an individual in the position to be able 
to take the risk of transferring the guaranteed benefits provided by the DB scheme. The 
recommendation led to him taking on the significant risk that the future benefits provided by 
her new personal pension would be less than those provided by the DB scheme. In his 
situation I do not believe the recommendation was suitable or appropriate. I dont believe the 
potential for increased benefits justified the recommendation in his situation.   
And, on balance, I think it is more likely that he was not fully aware of what benefits he was 
giving up. I have not seen evidence that the adviser gave Mr R a balanced comparison of 
the benefits and disadvantages of transferring or outlined the risks of doing so, so that Mr R 
could make an informed decision as to whether to transfer. If he had been given that then I think it unlikely in his situation, with dependents and uncertain future employment position, 
that he would have transferred. I note that Mr R says he was positively advised to transfer by 
WS and I believe he would have accepted its advice that this was something he should do. 
Consequently I do not believe the advice to transfer was in Mr Rs best interests or 
appropriate in the circumstances and the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the DB scheme. Brewin Dolphin must therefore undertake a redress calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends this month to update the inflation assumptions used in 
this guidance. This could materially affect the amount of compensation due. Brewin Dolphin 
must therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 
17/9.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, 
Brewin Dolphin must re-run the calculation within a month of the amended guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly made 
up to Mr R. Brewin Dolphin need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of 
amendments currently planned by the FCA. Brewin Dolphin does not subsequently need to 
recalculate following any further amendments the regulator might later make. 
Alternatively, Brewin Dolphin may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised 
Guidance (expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to 
Mr R in this case.
Brewin Dolphin may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the DB scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
Brewin Dolphin receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest 
must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Brewin Dolphin to pay Mr R.
If Brewin Dolphin chooses to wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance 
before calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
    
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Brewin Dolphin Limited to calculate and pay compensation 
as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman