DRN-3616319
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr G complained that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a packaged 
bank account (PBA) and also a credit card that was similar to a PBA.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr G had had a bank account with NatWest since 1974. In 1992 this was 
changed to a Gold Plus Account, which involved a monthly fee but came with various 
benefits. This was changed to an Advantage Private Account in July 2003, which was also a 
PBA. At several points between then and 2020, the type of account was changed, including 
periods of being a fee-free account; but for most of the time it took the form of a fee-paying 
PBA. 
In July 2002 Mr G took out a NatWest Black Card. This was similar to a PBA in that it came 
with certain insurance benefits. 
When Mrs and Mr G made a complaint in 2020, NatWest decided that there had been some 
duplication in the benefits between the Black Card and the PBAs. NatWest decided to refund 
all the PBA fees paid between July 2003 and December 2020. It deducted the value of 
benefits Mrs and Mr G had used (which included a significant reduction in overdraft costs) 
but added interest. Our adjudicator said that was in line with our current approach to putting 
things right.
Our adjudicator looked at the sale of the PBA as it affected the period up until July 2003, 
after which NatWest had refunded PBA fees. So this means he looked at the sale of the 
Gold Service PBA in 1992. The adjudicator also looked into the sale of the Black Card in 
July 2002, as Mr G said that had also been mis-sold. 
The Gold Service account opened in 1992 was a current account opened in conjunction with 
a Gold Mastercard (charge card). It offered a package of benefits attached to the charge 
card - with the annual fee (£85) paid from the charge card. NatWest said, Key benefits were 
an automatic £10,000 overdraft at a low interest rate, a charge card, travel insurance, and 
additional packaged benefits such as extended warranty.
As this was so long ago, theres not much surviving documentary information, and Ive not 
seen independent evidence of what the exact benefits were at the time of the actual sale in 
1992  though clearly insurance benefits were available at some point, though possibly 
introduced in later years. It does seem clear though that the principle benefit was the offer of 
an unsecured £10,000 overdraft facility at a preferential rate of interest. The preferential 
overdraft rate was only available if the charge card was held and the appropriate fee paid. If 
the customer closed their charge card, the current account would have usually been 
converted to a fee-free Select account. 
The Black Card account, opened in July 2002, cost £250 per year. It was a fee-paying credit 
card account with insurance benefits  although, again, Ive not seen direct evidence of what 
benefits were included when the account was actually sold, in 2002. From the information 
available in 2003, it seems the benefits by then included card protection, extended 
warranties, and purchase protection (other benefits, such as travel insurance were added in 
later years). It appears there was typically a credit limit of £15,000.
After looking at the evidence, the adjudicator said he thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs G and Mr G didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr G say they were told in 1992 that, if they didnt take the Gold Service PBA, 
they would lose their overdraft facility. They say that, in 2002, the bank again said they 
would lose their overdraft facility if they didnt take the Black Card account.  Ive 
considered these points, and also generally looked at whether there were mis-sales in 
some other way, on these two occasions.  
Ive thought first about the complaint that NatWest threatened loss of the overdraft. 
The problem is that this all happened, respectively, about 30 and 20 years ago; and it 
wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember everything that happened so long ago. 
So it may not be fair for me to rely just on what they now remember as happening. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint on 
this point. It wouldnt normally be fair to make NatWest prove it didnt act wrongly, 
especially as it was so many years ago  instead, fairly, I would need reasonable 
evidence to show that it probably did do something wrong in the way alleged. And I cant 
say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the PBA was mis-sold in the way 
Mrs G and Mr G now believe. 
And I can see that Mrs and Mr G were regular users of an overdraft and so a preferential 
rate could have been attractive; and theyve said they were told they wouldnt have to 
reapply each year if they took the Gold Service account in 1992. And, in 2002, the Black 
Card offered a generous credit limit. So there are alternative possible explanations for 
why they would have taken these accounts  and so I cant say that the only possible 
explanation is that NatWest put unfair pressure on them.
Ive looked also to see whether there are other reasons to say there were mis-sales. 
Ive no evidence that NatWest made a formal recommendation to Mrs and Mr G about the 
two accounts. If it had, NatWest would have had to assess Mrs and Mr Gs circumstances 
and make sure that the recommended products were a good fit for their needs. But, even if it 
had made a recommendation, in my view its likely it would have been an appropriate one. 
The main benefits at the time appear to have been the large overdraft (in 1992) and the 
large credit limit (in 2002). From what Ive seen, these could have been of genuine potential 
use to Mrs and Mr G at the time. It would have been up to Mrs and Mr G to then decide if they wanted to accept the 
recommendation. 
If NatWest didnt formally make a recommendation, it had instead to give Mrs and Mr G 
enough information to make their own assessment. As this was so long ago, I cant know 
what information was given. But given the apparently simplicity of the products, and the fact 
the main benefits were either an overdraft or high credit limit, I think its likely the key aspects 
were made clear. 
Overall, I dont have enough information to say the PBA was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs G and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman