DRN-3353913
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard failed to apply a payment
holiday to one of his credit cards.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr A had three credit cards with Barclaycard (Card 1, Card 2 and Card 3). Mr A has 
explained he was trapped abroad for several months due to the pandemic. In March 2020 
Mr A says he applied for payment holidays on all three of his cards with Barclaycard. 
Payment holidays were approved for Cards 1 and 2 but not for Card 3. Barclaycard says Mr 
A only applied for payment holidays for Cards 1 and 2.
On Mr As return to the UK in August 2020 he contacted Barclaycard and made a payment 
of around £1,200 to clear the arrears on Card 3. Barclaycard says that due to the arrears 
on Card 3 it took the decision to close the account so didnt send Mr A a replacement 
credit card when the existing one expired. Barclays also says it took the decision to 
suspend all new spending on Cards 1 and 2 as well.
Mr A has explained the failure to apply a payment holiday to Card 3 has had serious 
consequences and impacted his credit score to the point other businesses have reduced 
lending levels.
Mr A complained but Barclaycard didnt agree it had made an error as hed only applied for 
a payment holiday for Cards 1 and 2. Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was 
upheld by an investigator. Barclaycard agreed to reinstate Card 3 and remove the blocks 
on Cards 1 and 2. Barclaycard also agreed to pay Mr A £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and remove adverse information from his credit file. Mr A accepted.
A short time later, Barclaycard got in touch to say it couldnt put the agreed settlement in 
place. Barclaycard has explained systems limitations mean it cant reopen Card 3. And 
Barclaycard has confirmed it cant remove the suspension from Cards 1 and 2 either.
Barclaycard offered Mr A a further £250, taking the total award to £350, to resolve his
complaint. Mr A asked to appeal and said he didnt agree the settlement offered was fair.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Things have moved on since Barclaycard and Mr A accepted the investigators view of 
how to resolve this complaint. Ive independently reviewed what happened. Barclaycard 
says Mr A only applied for a payment holiday on Cards 1 and 2. But I think its very unlikely 
Mr A would only apply for two out of three payment holidays. And I think the investigator 
made a reasonable point when they said Barclaycard was aware Mr A had three credit 
cards. On that basis, it shouldve reviewed his situation as a whole and applied the 
payment holiday to all three credit cards. Barclaycard has accepted the investigators view 
that Mr As complaint should be upheld.
I thought the investigators initial recommendation that all three credit cards be reactivated 
was a fair way to return Mr A to the position he should be in. Barclaycard agreed to amend 
Mr As credit file and remove the adverse credit recorded. But Barclaycard has since 
confirmed that systems limitations mean it cant now put Mr A back into the position he 
ought to be in. So we need to think about how to fairly resolve Mr As case.
Barclaycard offered a further £250 to apologise. But Im not persuaded thats a fair level of 
compensation taking into account what happened. In my view, Barclaycards offer fails to 
fairly reflect the impact of the situation on Mr A whos confirmed other lending offered by 
different businesses has been affected by the impact of the arrears on his credit file. In 
addition, Mr A has now lost the use of three credit cards despite having a strong payment 
record and applying for payment holidays whilst he was unable to return to the UK. I also 
think its fair to say Mr A has experienced a reasonable level of distress by this matter 
which has been ongoing at an already difficult time.
In response to the investigator, Mr A said hed had to repay interest and arrears to 
Barclaycard on Card 3. But I think its fair to note that whilst Mr A didnt have to make 
payments to Cards 1 and 2 during this period, interest continued to accrue and be applied 
to the outstanding balance. So whilst Mr A did make a substantial payment in August 2020 
to clear arrears, he would always have had to cover the interest during the period in 
question. Although Ive taken into account that making a substantial payment of this nature 
willve caused Mr A some difficulties.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think the existing offer of £350 goes far 
enough. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I cant force Barclaycard to reopen Card 3 and 
reactivate new spending on Cards 1 and 2 due to the systems limitations its told us about. 
But I intend to increase the compensation to take into account the level of inconvenience 
this has caused, in addition to the other issues raised.
I also think its important that Barclaycard ensures no adverse information is recorded about 
Card 3 on Mr As credit file.
I intend to uphold Mr As complaint and increase the award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused from £350 to £700. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the 
impact of the issues raised on Mr A and takes into account Barclaycards systems limits 
that mean it cant now reinstate his credit cards.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Neither party provided new information. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr As complaint should be upheld for the 
same reasons. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mr As complaint Barclaycard should put the following settlement in place: 
- Amend Mr As credit file to ensure no adverse information in relation to Card 3 is 
recorded on his credit file from March 2020 onwards
- Pay Mr A a total of £700 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any 
compensation already paid)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle in line with the above guidance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman