DRN-2716717
The complaint
  Mr G complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent him a 
loan he couldnt afford.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Everyday Loans lent Mr G a loan of £3000 on 29 March 2018, this is not in dispute, so Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision about this loan. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
oEveryday Loans says it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr G. It says it asked him about his income and expenditure, verified his income by 
asking for a payslip and requested two months worth of bank statements as well as 
conduct a credit search.
oThe loan was due to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of around £285 and Mr G 
asked for the loan for debt consolidation, albeit he was only doing so for a proportion 
of his debt. When I look at Everyday Loans calculations, I can see that it had worked 
out that Mr G would have less disposable income after taking this loan and his 
payments to creditors would be higher. And he would be paying for this credit for 
longer. So Mr G would be in a worse position financially for the debt consolidation 
that he was going to undertake.  
I think with all that I have just concluded, Everyday Loans should have done more to 
ensure that Mr G could repay the loan repayments over the length of the loan term. 
This I think, should have included a complete review of his finances including 
breaking down and verifying his expenditure. I think as a responsible lender it ought 
to have done this once it had carried out its initial checks and seen how tight the new 
loan repayment made Mr Gs finances as well as the impact this loan would have on 
them. I cant see that it did this or verify any of Mr Gs expenditure and so I dont think 
its checks went far enough. It did obtain 2 months worth of Mr Gs statements, but I 
cant see that it used this information to verify Mr Gs expenditure. It added 35% of 
his income instead and added this to his rent payment and credit commitments. So, 
as I dont think it did enough, I need to consider what it would have seen if it had 
carried out proper checks.
oMr G has provided copies of his bank statements from around 3 months before and 
then leading up to the start of the loan. Ive relied on this to give me an indication as 
to what Everyday Loans would have seen, as I think his bank statements provide a 
clear picture about his actual financial circumstances at the time. I agree with our 
investigator, I think Mr G was struggling with more expenditure going out of his 
account than income coming in leading up to agreeing to this loan. There were also 
signs that he was using loans to make up the shortfall in his finances. In February 
2018 he took out a loan for £500 and although he transferred this amount to a 
savings account shortly after receiving it, he slowly transferred money back from this 
account to meet the shortfall in his finances. The following month, and only a couple 
of weeks before this loan was approved, Mr G had spent up to his overdraft limit 
quickly and then took out a new payday loan for £450 to cover his expenditure up to 
his following payday. It is clear from Mr Gs bank statements that he was borrowing 
to fill a gap in his finances. And the debt consolidation from this loan was only going 
to add to this problem, by increasing Mr Gs monthly repayment to credit and make 
this repayment last for longer. So, when I consider this all together, I think if Everyday 
Loans had carried out further checks it would have seen that the loan repayments 
were not sustainable.  
oSo, it follows that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Everyday Loans now needs to put things 
right.
Putting things right
  While I think Everyday Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr G, I think it will be fair for him to 
repay the capital of £3,000 which he borrowed. So, to put things right, Everyday Loans 
should:
add up all the payments made by Mr G, if it exceeds the capital amount of £3,000, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Mr G, remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr G credit file as a result of this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. Everyday Loans must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks 
it for one.
My final decision
  My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld and direct Everyday Lending 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman