DRN-1999839
The complaint
Mr H complains Denmark Square Limited (trading as Money & Co) has over charged him in 
the fees hes paid for his crowdfunding account on its peer to peer lending platform. Hes 
unhappy that it hasnt been explained why he has been charged more than he agreed to. 
What happened
Mr H opened his Money & Co account in March 2018. He then invested in a number of 
loans, generally around the minimum amount that can be lent on the platform. In June 2019, 
he noticed the fees that were taken from his portfolio equated to more than the 1% he 
agreed to. 
Money & Co accepted Mr H was overcharged fees on the interest he earned on his account. 
It said this was due to a rounding error in its systems for smaller holdings. It worked out that 
Mr H had been overcharged by £0.19 in the period since he opened his account and 
credited this amount back to him. It said it would introduce a procedure that involves a six-
monthly correction payment for lenders who have been affected by the rounding issue in the 
future. It also offered to pay £10 compensation into Mr Hs account. 
Mr H remained unhappy as the problem with the incorrect fees being charged hadnt been 
amended. He referred his complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He recognised that Money & Co had admitted an 
error in the fees it had charged Mr H. The investigator thought Mr H had been fairly 
compensated for the financial loss he suffered as a result of the incorrect fees. But he 
thought Money & Co should increase the compensation paid to Mr H to £50 (so an additional 
£40) for the practical and emotional impact of Money & Cos error. 
Mr H didnt think the amount of compensation suggested by the investigator was sufficient to 
reflect the trouble hes been put to and the time spent in dealing with the issue. 
Money & Co didnt agree that Mr H should be paid any further compensation. It doesnt think 
Mr H has lost out as a result of the rounding error on his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions Money & Co has provided as applicable to Mr Hs 
account when he opened it. I can see that they explain Money&Co. charges a Monthly Fee to 
the Lender equal to 1% p.a. of the outstanding amount of each Loan held by the Lender. The 
accrued Monthly Fee is deducted automatically when the Borrower makes a payment under the 
Loan Agreement. Money & Co has admitted an error in how it applied this fee to Mr Hs 
account. It has explained the issue related to a rounding up error that only impacts small 
holdings. It has provided information from Mr Hs account that shows rounding up the 1% fee 
has resulted in him paying fractionally more in some transactions than he should have as a 
fee. But in its response to the complaint it agreed to pay Mr H the additional fees hes paid.  
 which totalled less than 20 pence across the account.   
Since the investigator issued his opinion, Money & Co has provided further information about 
the account history. It has confirmed that the same rounding error also occurs on the interest 
Mr H has earnt on the small loan holdings he has invested in. And the result of this is that 
hes received more interest than hes due because of the rounding error. Money & Co say 
that the net result of rounding error is that Mr H has actually benefited from it because the 
difference between the extra interest hes received is more than the additional fees hes 
paid. 
It isnt in dispute that there is a problem with Money Cos systems that impacts customers  
such as Mr H - who invest small holdings in loans. But its provided evidence of Mr Hs 
account to show that this error hasnt caused him a financial loss. It credited his account for 
some additional fees. And it has provided information from the account to support that the 
rounding error hasnt had an overall detrimental impact on Mr H. Having considered all of the 
information provided, Im satisfied Money & Co has now provided a reasonable explanation 
and evidence to show there isnt a negative impact to Mr Hs account caused by the 
rounding issue. So for this reason I dont think Money & Co needs to do anything further to 
compensate Mr H for any financial losses caused by the issue.
Ive noted Mr Hs comments about issues relating to Money & Cos complaint handling. 
In reaching my decision, I havent been able to provide a finding on any of the points that 
relate solely to complaint handling. This is because complaint handling isnt an activity on its 
own that is covered by our rules. The rules this service follows (DISP rules) are set by the 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and explain what we can get involved in.  
DISP 2.3.1 R lists several activities our service can look into, none of which refer to 
complaint handling as an activity this service can consider under the rules. So while I 
acknowledge the points Mr H has made about Money & Cos failure to respond to his 
complaint within regulators timescales, the quality of its complaints process and final 
response letter - these are not issues that are covered by our rules. It is not our role to 
punish or fine financial businesses. And we dont monitor (or "regulate") businesses to make 
sure they follow the rules. This is the job of the regulator. 
But I can consider things that are in connection to an activity that is covered by our rules - 
which in this case is issues relating to the operation of Mr Hs crowdfunding account. I 
acknowledge that Mr H did become frustrated with Money & Cos initial failure to provide him 
with a clear explanation of why he was paying the wrong amount of fees. I understand Mr H 
feels Money & Cos systems are flawed and he wasnt receiving proper answers to his 
concerns. This caused him to have to chase things up and pursue a fuller explanation of why 
he was being overcharged. I acknowledge his frustrations and why he felt he needed to 
peruse the matter  which took up more of his time than it should have. And it is only more 
recently in discussion with the service that Money & Co has provided an explanation on why 
the rounding issue hasnt had a detrimental affect on Mr Hs account. 
I do think it is appropriate to award a small amount of compensation for the frustrations this 
caused Mr H  and also to recognise the time he has had to spend seeking an explanation. I 
agree that the figure our investigator recommended of £50 in total is reasonable in the 
circumstances.  I appreciate that Mr H is seeking a higher level of compensation, but I dont 
think the circumstances warrant this. In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account the 
minimal financial impact of the rounding error and the fact Money & Co did cover the initial 
financial loss it identified. 
Putting things rightMoney & Co needs to pay Mr H £50 in compensation in total. It is unclear if Money & Co 
paid Mr H the £10 it originally offered him. If it has paid this amount it can deduct it from the 
compensation that is due. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Denmark Square Limited (trading as Money & Co) 
to pay compensation to Mr H in line with the above instructions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman