DRN-4350206
The complaint
Mr J complains that he received a poor level of service from the Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS) when he raised disputes about some payments he made.
What happened
Mr J is unhappy with the service he received from BOS. He says he was treated poorly by 
one of the banks call handlers, during a call around June last year  specifically that the call 
handler appeared to be racist. Mr J is also unhappy about how his complaint was handled 
and that the bank went ahead and deposited compensation funds into his account  without 
his permission. 
Mr J adds that hes been affected emotionally by these issues. By way of resolution, Mr J 
wants further compensation and asks that BOS handles the issues hes experienced directly 
with the relevant staff members.
In its responses, BOS recognised some of its service issues, such as a failure to 
acknowledge one of Mr Js complaint related emails. In total, BOS paid Mr J £120 
compensation. In response to Mr Js concerns about its call handler, BOS acknowledged a 
better choice of words couldve been used but didnt agree that the call handler came across 
as racist.
After Mr J asked this service to get involved, our investigator decided that BOS had acted 
fairly. Mr J disagreed and asked for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator pointed out, some of Mr Js concerns do not fall under the remit of this 
service. Mr J complains about the way BOS handled his complaint  he says the complaint 
handler failed to properly address his concerns, that compensation was paid into his account 
without his permission, there were delays and that he felt BOS was dismissive. 
However, the rules this service is subject to say that complaints about complaint handling do 
not come under our remit because such issues arent considered as or ancillary to regulated 
activities. So I cant comment on these concerns as part of my decision.
Ive listened to the relevant call that took place around June last year. I can see that the call 
lasted a while and its apparent that Mr J was distressed by the situation. Mr J says that the 
call handler made racist remarks. I need to clarify that this service is unable to make findings 
on whether something constitutes discrimination as per The Equality Act 2010 (the Act). 
This is because this service is an informal alternative to the courts, and only a court of law 
can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out within the Act. 
However, I can consider whether the bank has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to 
do that I will take several things, including the Act into consideration, where relevant. I think it 
is relevant here. 
Having listened to the call, Im not persuaded that the call handler treated Mr J unfairly. In its 
final response letter sent in December 2022, BOS says its call handler couldve used a 
better choice of words and that feedback would be provided. I can see that the call handler 
did make a comment about finding it difficult to understand accents because of their own 
background. The call handler also seemed quick to clarify her remarks after Mr J became 
upset by what shed said.
In my opinion though, the call handlers comments appear to be an explanation as to why 
they asked Mr J to repeat himself, which I dont think was unreasonable. BOS has said it will 
provide feedback, so I dont find that it needs to do anything more.
So, although I understand Mr Js frustrations at the time, I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that BOS treated him unfairly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman