The complaint
Mr W complains that his insurers QIC Europe Ltd (QIC), has unfairly declined his claim for 
storm damage under his home insurance policy.  
What happened
In February 2019, Mr W contacted QIC to report damage to his wall following a storm. QIC 
sent out a contractor to make the wall safe, followed by a surveyor to assess the damage. 
The surveyor concluded that the main cause of damage to the wall was due to poor 
workmanship and not as a result of any storm. So QIC declined Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W was unhappy about this outcome and complained to QIC. He said that he had builders 
reports which stated that the wall had been correctly constructed. In its final response QIC 
said that the surveyors report confirmed that the damage to the wall wasnt as a result of 
storm winds. It said that the wind speeds merely highlighted the pre-existing condition of the 
wall. So, the claim remained declined. 
Unhappy with QICs decision, Mr W referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded 
that although there were high winds present, the damage to the wall was as a result of poor 
workmanship and a build-up of water putting pressure on the wall. So, she didnt think this 
was an insured peril and there was nothing more that she could reasonably ask QIC to do. 
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator as he felt that the damage had been caused as a 
result of the strong winds. He said that he had evidence from his builders who said that the 
wall had been correctly constructed and neither QIC or our investigator took this information 
into consideration. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr W, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were prevailing storm conditions 
at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if QIC ought to have 
considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
DRN-2460291Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally, 
reasonably decline a claim. 
QIC determined that the weather event didnt amount to a storm. Mr Ws policy defined what 
QIC considered a storm to be. It said: storm a period of violent weather defined as (a) a gale 
of force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale) 
reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph or 
I have considered the local weather reports which are usually the best evidence I can rely on 
to check whether there were prevailing storm conditions. These show that at around the time 
of the claim, the wind speed was sufficiently strong enough to meet the policy requirements. 
So, I am satisfied that storm conditions regarding high winds, were present at the time of the 
event. So, the answer to the first question is yes.
I have next considered whether there was any damage caused-that was consistent with 
storm damage. Mr W said that his wall was blown down due to the high winds. I have been 
provided with photos of the damaged wall which show several bricks missing and a 
collapsed wall. I also note that QIC attended to secure the wall which it felt posed a danger. 
Wall damage can result from periods of high wind speeds. So, I am satisfied that there was 
damage caused which was consistent with storm damage.
As Im satisfied that there was damage caused that was consistent with storm damage, the 
next question I need to consider is whether the storm conditions (in this case the high winds) 
were the main cause of the damage. 
QIC said that the reason why the claim was declined was due to the poor construction and 
design of the wall. Its surveyor concluded that there was no indication that the wall had been 
designed and built to take the lateral loading of the earth behind it. This was because the 
depth and width of the wall was inadequate to provide this function and the wall had no weep 
holes. QIC also relied upon a general exclusion clause that said that any loss or damage 
caused by poor design, is not covered. 
  
Mr W provided expert evidence that the wall had been correctly built. Mr W stated that there 
was membrane used to construct the wall, as he said that QICs surveyor had told him there 
wasnt one. He also said that the expert told him that that the foundations (the footings) were 
correct. But I think the main issue here was the way in which the earth and water put 
pressure on the wall, which I will explain further. 
I have reviewed the photos as well as the surveyors report and the report from Mr Ws 
expert. 
QICs surveyors report said: 
 
It was noted that the ground level was around about 1.5 m high and there was no indication that this 
boundary wall had been built to take the lateral loading of the Earth behind the wall. The evidence for 
this is that there is inadequate mass and width of the wall with no weep holes. There is no evidence of a 
granular film or terram membrane behind the wall and it is believed that the failure of the wall was due to 
the wall being used as a earth retaining wall for which it was never designed. From this eviden ce, QIC said that as weep holes weren t present, the width and the mass of 
the wall were inadequate and that there was no membrane behind the wall, this resulted in 
the poor design of the wall. Consequently, the damag e to the wall wasnt due to the storm 
and the strong winds that occurred. 
Mr Ws expert confirmed that his wa
ll was built around 10 years ago. His report said: that on 
inspection he noted that the concrete footing s had moved causing the wall to lean forward, 
so much so that Mr W h as had to take most of the wall down for safety. Mr W has informed 
me that at least half of the walls footings were exposed whilst the water board fixed a large 
water lea k that occurred in front of the wall. This therefore could have caused the movement 
of the footings in the time after excavations were finished.  
From this eviden ce, it seems that Mr Ws expert has said that the cause of the moveme nt of 
the wall was due to a water leak and n ot as a result of a storm. Also, I can see from the 
photos that there aren t any weep hole s in the wall.  Consequently, I am persuaded by QICs 
surveyor who has said that the damage caused wasnt as a result of a storm. And to this 
end, Mr Ws expert appea rs to be of the same opinion. 
As I have decide d that the storm condition wasnt the main cause of the damage, I must look 
at whether Mr Ws had added accidental cover to his policy. I have reviewe d the schedule 
and statement of facts. Mr W was asked if he wanted to add accidental cover to his policy 
which he declined.  As he opted out of the accidental cover, this section isnt available for 
him to have made a claim under.
Finally, I asked QIC to comment on Mr W s expert report. It said that it agree d that it was 
possible for t
he burst water main to have contributed to the walls collap se.  But it said that 
whilst there w asnt any eviden ce to suggest th at this w as the only cause of the damage, 
even if there was evidence, the policy excluded this as there wasnt any peril within Mr Ws 
policy that would cover the damage to the wall. It relied on the following exclusion:
what is not covered: loss or damage to..boundary or garden walls, unless the main 
building which you live in is damaged at the same time and by the same cause
I think this means that Mr Ws wall would only be covered if at the same time his home was 
damage and for the same reasons. Which wasnt the case here.
Mr W was unhappy with the surveyor and felt he was rude. I can see that QIC apologised if 
the surveyor made him feel like that and I think that this is sufficient to put things right.
On balance, whilst I have every sympathy for Mr Ws position, Im not satisfied that QIC 
unfairly or unreasonably declined the claim and as such I cant ask them to do anymore. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman