DRN-3105073
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delays he experienced when he acquired a car with finance 
supplied by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr C ordered a new car from a dealership. The sale was a VAT free sale on the 
basis that the car was to be disability adapted. Part of the purchase price was to be financed 
by a hire purchase agreement with VWFS.
In November 2020 Mr C was notified that the adaptions had been completed and the car 
was awaiting collection from the dealership. However, Mr C was unable to collect the car for 
a further two weeks because VWFS required documentation to be completed before it could 
process a VAT free sale. As a result of the delay Mr C was without a car for two weeks. He 
complained to VWFs and said the process in relation to VAT free sales made the finance 
application disadvantageous for disabled persons, which he felt was discriminatory. In 
response VWFS said the minimum timescale for VAT free sales was 6-8 weeks because it 
had to carry out checks against HMRC guidelines. It said it hadnt been made aware that Mr 
C had been left without a car and offered compensation of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr C wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to 
this service.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I proposed to uphold the complaint. I explained 
that I wasnt able to make a finding of discrimination as only a court or tribunal could do that. 
I identified that any issues of delay were most likely down to the dealership as opposed to 
VWFS as it hadnt sent the correct documents to VWFS.  But I didnt think VWFS had acted 
unreasonably in requiring those documents and I was satisfied with its explanation that it 
was obliged to process the application in line with HMRC guidelines.
I said that I understood how frustrating the process had been for Mr C and I thought it was 
fair that he should be compensated for the expense hed incurred during the time hed been 
without a car. I said a sum of £300 in total was reasonable  this included the £150 already 
offered by VWFS.
I also considered the anxiety caused to Mr C as a vulnerable person at having to use public 
transport and taxis to get to medical appointments during the pandemic, as opposed to his 
own car. I said that the impact on Mr C hadnt been recognised and awarded further 
compensation of £100. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to 
advance before I reached a final decision.
Both parties responded and said they had nothing further to add. VWFS said it accepted the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to consider any further evidence or arguments. Therefore, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Volkswagen Financial Services UK Limited must pay total compensation 
of £400 to Mr C.  I understand that £150 has already been paid so the further sum of £250 
must be paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services UK Limited 
must take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman