DRN-2754433
The complaint
Mr L complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited refused the claim he brought 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This was in relation to the supply of 
goods which he says were not of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. He wants a refund of 
the purchase price.
What happened
Mr L tells us that he entered an agreement with a business Ill refer to as K for the supply 
and fitting of curtains and blinds. This was paid for through his JLFSL partnership credit 
card.  Mr L explains that due to a medical condition he is sensitive to light. So blackout 
curtains are important to him. He says that the goods were fitted in February 2020. But that 
the curtains supplied arent fit for purpose as they let in light. And that despite two visits to 
assess if repairs could be completed, K has told him its unable to do so.
JLFSL told us that it hadnt identified a breach of contract or misrepresentation by K. It said 
that this was due to information it requested not being supplied.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She found that on the 
invoice provided, the curtains are described as blackout lined full length. And that Mr L had 
paid £1,440.82 for these items. She said that the photographic images showed that light is 
able to enter through the middle, bottom and sides of the curtains. She thought thered been 
a breach of contract.
JLFSL said that it was unhappy with the investigators view. So the complaint has been 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr L has experienced the inconvenience and disappointment of some of the 
items he purchased not proving to be adequate for his requirements.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ls complaint. I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Relevant law here also includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA requires 
that goods supplied are to be of satisfactory quality and fit for a particular purpose for which 
they are supplied. So its reasonable here to think that blackout curtains shouldnt let in 
substantial amounts of light.
Ive seen the photographs supplied by Mr L. These show that when the curtains are drawn, 
light is still able to enter the room at various points in the curtains. The only reasonable 
conclusion to be drawn is that the curtains arent of sufficient dimensions to achieve the 
necessary blackout effect.
Im aware that JLFSL has requested that Mr L supply the dimensions that were taken prior to 
the order. I infer this is to enable a comparison to be made between those which were 
ordered and that supplied. But I understand that it was K who took the measurements prior 
to supply. And that Mr L was not aware of these as he relied upon the professional skills of 
K. 
The CRA contains an implied term in a contract for services that these are performed with 
reasonable care and skill. Its not clear if the fault with the curtains is the result of incorrect 
measurements or with the manufacturing of the items. Mr L has no complaint about the 
blinds, so it appears the measurements for those items were correct. Either way, K was 
responsible for both taking the measurements as well as the supply and fitting of the items. 
So it would be liable for those items which arent of satisfactory quality.
When Mr L made his complaint to JLFSL he supplied details of the invoice, photographs and 
email exchanges with K. I think it was clear from this information that it was K who had 
arranged for the measurements to be taken prior to supply. And as JLFSL was provided with 
the photographs of the curtains after they had been fitted, I dont think it was necessary for it 
to require further details of the measurements from Mr L. Its also apparent from the email 
exchanges, that K wasnt disputing that significant amount of light was entering the room.
I think that from the images and other information supplied it ought to have been apparent 
that the curtains were not providing the blackout as intended. In those circumstances, I find 
JLFSL shouldve recognised it had an obligation under Section 75. And Im upholding the 
complaint.
Ive also seen information that K has been given two opportunities to make repairs but has 
been unable to do so. So its had the opportunity to put things right that the CRA requires.
It isnt surprising that repairs dont seem to be possible. If the dimensions of the fitted items 
are incorrect, it would seem probable that replacement items would be required.
JLFSL should now provide Mr L with a refund of the purchase price of the curtains. It should 
also arrange for any repairs which the removal of the curtains will necessitate. Or 
alternatively, agree to pay for the reasonable costs for this to be done.
Putting things right 
JLFSL should now take the following action:
1. Arrange for the collection of the curtains at no cost to Mr L;
2. Upon return of the items, refund £1,440.82 to Mr L together with simple interest at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;  
3. Arrange for the repair of any damage arising from the removal of the curtains. Or, 
alternatively, upon proof of payment, refund the reasonable cost of this work.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I require John Lewis Financial Services Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman