DRN-4445531
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain about Euroins ADs settlement of their travel insurance cancellation 
claim. My references to Euroins include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A had an annual travel insurance policy. Euroins was the relevant insurer. They 
were due to go on holiday abroad with their two children who were seven years old. 
Unfortunately just before the family was due to depart one of Mrs and Mr As children 
became seriously ill which meant they had to cancel the holiday. Mrs and Mr A claimed for 
the costs of the cancelled holiday.
Euroins accepted the claim but only paid half the costs, less the excess and other deductible 
expenses. It said although Mrs and Mr A had paid the cost of the trip only they were covered 
under the policy, not their two children, so the childrens costs werent covered by the policy 
terms.
Mrs and Mr A complained to us. They said the policy terms stated that their costs would be 
covered and they had paid for the whole cost of the holiday as their young children were 
financially dependent on them.
Our investigator said Euroins had unreasonably settled the claim and recommended it pay 
the full claim.
Euroins disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down (or settle) claims unreasonably. I think Euroins unreasonably settled 
Mrs and Mr As claim. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the cancellation section:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused 
portion of your travel and accommodation costs  that you have paid or contracted 
to pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you 
cancel before the start of your tripbecause of the following:
1. illness of you, your travel companion, a close relative...
The holiday had to be cancelled due to the illness of Mrs and Mr As child, who was a travel 
companion and a close relative, so an insured event occurred. The issue I need to decide is 
whether Euroins should pay all the costs Mrs and Mr A paid.
Euroins says as the policy defines You/Your as Each insured person named in the 
certificate of insurance, and only Mrs and Mr A are named on the certificate of insurance, 
the childrens costs arent covered. But Mrs and Mr A say as the policy terms state Euroins 
will pay the costs you have paid or contracted to pay and you suffer a financial loss (my 
emphasis) then all the cost is covered as they paid for all the holiday and they have all the 
financial loss. 
I dont think the policy terms and conditions are clear that only the insureds proportion or 
share of the costs are covered even if the insured paid for the entire holiday cost as a gift. 
Euroins hasnt referred to any policy wording which makes that situation clear.
Mr A has provided bank statements showing he paid the full cost of the holiday. Given the 
childrens age I accept Mrs and Mr As evidence that their children are financially dependent 
on them. And theres no evidence that the children have their own insurance from which they 
would be able to claim the costs attributable to them. Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr A werent 
expecting any repayment from their children and they paid for their children as a gift.
 
The policy terms say theres cover for the insureds costs and in these circumstances Im 
satisfied the insureds costs were the total costs of the booking. So I think Euroins 
settlement of the claim was unreasonable.
Putting things right
Euroins must pay the remainder of the claim plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Euroins AD to pay the remainder of the claim plus 
interest* on the remaining amount at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
*If Euroins AD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it 
should tell Mrs and Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr A a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman