DRN-2412430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a mortgage account they have with Barclays Bank Plc. 
They are unhappy with what they see as the lack of support it provided them following 
financial difficulties caused by severe ill health. It was not until May 2019 that Mr and Mrs S 
feel Barclays attempted to help them, and they believe their situation would have been 
considerably better if it had taken that action in 2013 rather than waiting until 2019.
What happened
I have detailed below some of the key points and events in the lifetime of Mr and Mrs S 
mortgage, but it is not an exhaustive account of everything that happened. I have 
summarised and rounded the figures involved too. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because I have ignored it. Rather its because I dont think it is material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S arranged their mortgage with Barclays in 2008. It was an offset arrangement 
with a mortgage current account (MCA) linked to it. The mortgage advance was for £245,000 
over 18 years. Initially the MCA overdraft limit was £25,000, but as the mortgage debt 
reduced, the overdraft limit was increased. 
The offset facility was set up so that any credit balances in linked accounts created an 
interest credit on the mortgage, which was reserved to reduce the term. If the MCA had a 
negative balance, the interest due on it was added to the mortgage balance. However, the 
offset facility could have been set up with the purpose of reducing the contractual monthly 
payment (CMP). This would have meant any credit balances in linked accounts created an 
immediate interest credit to the mortgage balance, which would have fed through to a 
reduced CMP. With the CMP reducing offset arrangement, the accountholder would have to 
pay the interest due on any debt balance on the MCA, rather than it being added to the 
mortgage balance.
By 2013 Mr and Mrs S were experiencing financial difficulties linked to ill health. They 
discussed the situation with Barclays and agreements were made regarding payments over 
the following years. Sometimes they were adhered to and at other times they werent. At 
other times Mr and Mrs S made reduced payments without agreement with Barclays. Arrears 
built-up on the account. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S first mentioned the possibility of the term of the mortgage being 
extended once treatment for illness had ended. However, this was expected to be sometime 
in the future. 
By April 2018 the arrears had risen to slightly over £81,000 and the MCA balance was over 
£136,000. Over the following months Mr and Mrs S informed Barclays they intended to sell 
their home and downsize. They also asked to increase their borrowing and wanted a term 
extension to reduce the CMP from the start of 2019. Barclays continued to support them with 
payment arrangements during 2018. It also confirmed that in order for it to consider 
extending the term of the mortgage, the arrears would need to be addressed. It was 
suggested that the matter be looked into once Mr and Mrs S income had returned to normal.
Later that year, Mr and Mrs S informed Barclays that they wanted to look at extending the 
term of the mortgage, rather than selling their home. However, at the very start of 2019 they 
confirmed that theyd actually sold the house and were hoping to complete the sale within a 
few weeks. However, the sale was delayed and eventually fell through.
Mr and Mrs S continued to ask Barclays for reduced payment arrangements in the first half 
of 2019. However, Barclays wasnt persuaded, given the information Mr and Mrs S gave 
about their finances, that the CMP wasnt affordable, so it rejected their payment 
arrangement request. However, following a recurrence of illness, with the associated 
restriction to Mr and Mrs S income, a further arrangement was agreed. 
By mid-2019 Mr and Mrs S were asking if the sale of the property took too long, they could 
extend the term of the mortgage to make things more affordable. Alternatively, they asked 
about arranging a mortgage of £295,000 on a fixed rate, which would improve affordability 
and release some equity to help with Mr S business. They offered to move their personal 
and business banking to Barclays if that would encourage it to agree the arrangements they 
wanted. Barclays didnt agree to future arrangements and suggested that Mr and Mrs S 
approach a local branch if they wanted to move their bank accounts.
At the beginning of June 2019 Mr S spoke to Barclays about the plans that had previously 
been mentioned. The adviser explained that extending the term of the mortgage wouldnt 
really help in the way Mr and Mrs S were anticipating as they had their offset as term 
reducing. However, if they wanted to change the offset to CMP reducing, this would 
automatically reduce the CMP because paying the outstanding balance would be spread 
over the full remaining term. Mr and Mrs S chose to change their offset arrangement so that 
the CMP was reduced. 
In August 2019 Barclays approached Mr and Mrs S about the sale of the property. it 
highlighted that while they had been paying the CMP over recent months, the arrears were 
nearly £85,000. As there hadnt been any developments with the sale of the property, 
Barclays asked Mr and Mrs S to engage with the assisted voluntary sale (AVS) process, 
which would allow it to assist with the sale of the property. 
The following month Mr and Mrs S complained to Barclays that their previous requests to 
restructure the mortgage and change its term had been ignored. They were also unhappy 
that Barclays had threatened them with litigation so soon after the recovery from illness; this 
was especially so given how helpful it had been during the illness. They said they had 
agreed to the AVS process, but wouldnt sell the house on the cheap to benefit Barclays.
Barclays responded to Mr and Mrs S complaint. It said that it had looked at the option of a 
term extension on numerous occasions. However, based on the income and expenditure 
exercises Mr and Mrs S had completed, it had determined it was unaffordable and wasnt a 
viable option. We asked for clarity on this statement during our investigation and Barclays 
confirmed that whenever it assessed Mr and Mrs S circumstances to agree new 
concessions, it looked at all the options it could offer Mr and Mrs S. It said it still wouldnt 
alter the mortgage at the time of the complaint as it still didnt think the option was affordable. 
Barclays reassured Mr and Mrs S that selling the house through the AVS didnt mean it 
would be sold below value. However, Barclays pointed out that the estate agents had said 
the property was being marketed at too high a price, which was why it hadnt been sold.
At the end of September 2019 Barclays confirmed the mortgage offset had been changed 
and the repayment term had been changed to six years and six months. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept Barclays position that the sale of the property was the only way 
forward. They put forward alternate options and said that once their income returned to 
normal (which they believed would be in only a few weeks) they would be able to clear the 
arrears in less than four years. 
The annual mortgage statement issued to Mr and Mrs S in October 2019 showed that theyd 
missed payments in October, November and December 2018 and February 2019. 
By December 2019 Barclays had agreed to recalculate the position Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
account would have been in if the change in the offset arrangement had been done in 2013. 
It confirmed it would correct the account and let them know when the changes had been 
made. 
Subsequently, Barclays confirmed the recalculation would reduce the arrears on the 
mortgage. It would be making a decision about what actions it would be taking in relation to 
the account. In addition, after that decision was made, Barclays confirmed it would be 
making an offer to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the poor experience theyd had. 
Barclays confirmed that as at January 2020, the mortgage balance was approximately 
£31,500, the arrears were just over £87,500 and the CMP was just under £430. However, if 
the offset had been changed in 2013 the mortgage balance would have been higher at over 
£78,000, the arrears balance would be reduced to around £41,000 and the CMP would be 
around £1,060. If the arrears were consolidated into the recalculated position, this would 
increase the CMP further. In addition, to pay the MCA balance within the remaining 
mortgage term would involve payments of over £2,200 per month.
When Barclays responded to Mr and Mrs S complaint again, it upheld the complaint because 
of the poor experience with the complaints journey but also for not having the option of 
amending the offset arrangement explored sooner. However, it confirmed that it wasnt 
amending the account or the arrears balance. Barclays explained that if the offset change 
had been done in 2013 the arrears would have started to accrue nine months later than they 
had. Changing the mortgage retrospectively would, however, mean an increase in the CMP 
which wouldnt be affordable. The same applied to the concept of capitalising the arrears. So 
Barclays has decided not to alter the mortgage. On top of that increase in CMP, Mr and Mrs 
S would need to make payments toward the MCA balance. Barclays offered Mr and Mrs S 
£950 compensation for it not having kept them updated during the complaint and for the 
disappointment of being told the mortgage wouldnt be amended. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy about Barclays response as, although the complaint had been 
upheld, Barclays hadnt done anything to put the situation right.
Shortly thereafter, Barclays confirmed that as it hadnt been able to agree a formal solution 
in relation to the arrears, it was moving the mortgage account to solicitors to proceed with 
legal action. Barclays said that the solicitors would be contacting Mr and Mrs S and if a 
suitable arrangement couldnt be reached, the matter would be referred to the courts. It 
provided Mr and Mrs S with details about the balances of the mortgage, the arrears and the 
MCA. The amount owed on the mortgage between the main balance and the arrears was 
approximately £120,000 and the MCA was £136,000.
Mr and Mrs S responded. They said that Barclays had upheld their complaint and it knew 
that the arrears balance was incorrect. They expressed their disappointment that Barclays 
hadnt done anything to correct that figure. Mr and Mrs S then referred their complaint to this 
service. When doing so, Mr and Mrs S explained that when the change to the offset was done and 
the full mortgage term used, the monthly payments had decreased to just over £420. They 
said that during June to Oct 2019 Barclays had tried to force them into the AVS scheme to 
sell the house or it would repossess it. They said they still didnt know what they owed and 
couldnt sell the house until they did. They had thought they were getting a substantial 
amount of compensation, which they didnt consider £950 was. 
When Barclays provided its file, it confirmed that it had assessed the viability of a term 
extension to Mr S 70th birthday. However, in order to pay off the mortgage balance and 
arrears in that time, the monthly mortgage payment would be around £450 plus debit 
interest. On top of that Mr and Mrs S would need to find the funds to pay off the £136,000 
MCA balance. Given the income and expenditure theyd provided most recently, they didnt 
have the money to do this. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. Ultimately, he concluded that Barclays 
should have looked at changing the offset arrangement earlier, which would have meant the 
mortgage wouldnt have gone into arrears as early as it did. However, while we would 
usually require a lender to backdate a rebuild of the account, such a rebuild would place 
Mr and Mrs S in the position whereby they wouldnt be able to afford the monthly payments 
going forward, let alone have funds to deal with the arrears and MCA balance. The rebuild, 
would effectively, place them in a worse position and as such, he didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything more, as the compensation payment was appropriate in the 
circumstances.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They disagreed that they couldnt 
afford the increased costs associated with retrospective changes to the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S also said the investigators decision was a joke and a disgrace as hed done 
nothing to address years of lies and misleading information or the fact that theyd lost two 
opportunities to sell their house. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to consider. In light of 
Mr and Mrs S disagreement about affordability of the recalculated monthly payments, I 
asked them to provide evidence of their income and outgoings. They provided me with their 
personal current account statements for the 2020/21 financial year. These showed that in 
only two months of the year did Mr and Mrs S have surplus funds available sufficient to 
cover the increase in the monthly payment that would have resulted from the account being 
rebuilt.  This was confirmed to them and they were given the opportunity to provide any 
further evidence to support the affordability of the increased costs. While they did provide 
further evidence, it didnt support their position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have acknowledged that during the period of illness Barclays was helpful and 
supported them. However, they dont think when their circumstances started to return to 
normal its behaviour was what it should have been. 
When a consumer is in financial difficulties a lender is expected to do what it can to help. 
However, that doesnt mean it has to give the consumer whatever they want. The actions 
taken do need to assist them. Mr and Mrs S asked that Barclays extend the term of their 
mortgage, as it would reduce the monthly payments due and make them more affordable. 
That is what it would do, but Barclays had to look at Mr and Mrs S whole situation, including 
the arrears and the MCA balances that needed to be paid alongside the mortgage balance over whatever the new term was. Quite simply, if dealing with the whole situation wasnt 
affordable over the short or long term, changing the term of the mortgage wasnt really going 
to help. It would, at best, have simply delayed the inevitable; the need to look at alternative 
options. In the circumstances, it wasnt inappropriate for Barclays to decline to change the 
term of the mortgage or for it to encourage Mr and Mrs S to use the AVS scheme to sell their 
home.
Barclays has, however, acknowledged that it should have looked into the offset 
arrangements sooner. Had it been altered when Mr and Mrs S first started experiencing 
financial difficulties, it would have meant the mortgage wouldnt have gone into arrears as 
quickly. It would have also meant that the amount of the arrears wouldnt have been as high 
at this point. However, it would also have meant that the mortgage balance didnt reduce as 
quickly, which would have meant the CMP would have been higher. In addition, 
Mr and Mrs S would have needed to pay the monthly interest on the MCA of around £70, 
rather than it being added to the mortgage balance. This would have meant theyd have 
needed to find around another £70 per month for that payment. Overall, Mr and Mrs S would 
still have owed the same amount  changing the offset would simply have meant more of the 
amount owed would be on the mortgage balance rather than having transferred to the 
arrears balance. 
Barclays initially indicated that it would likely rebuild the account to backdate the change in 
offset. However, once the calculations had been done, it came to the conclusion that while 
the arrears balance would look better and the arrears would have started later, it would place 
Mr and Mrs S in a worse position at that time. This was because while they would have had 
less arrears on the account, the higher monthly payment that would have been needed was 
more than Mr and Mrs S could afford. This would mean they would owe the same amount 
overall, but they would no longer be able to afford the normal monthly payments and the 
MCA limit would likely be exceeded because of the interest being added to that balance. 
When considering redress, this service aims to place a consumer in as close a position as it 
can to that they would have been in but for the mistake by the financial business. However, 
we wouldnt award redress that would place a consumer in a worse position. This is why I 
asked Mr and Mrs S to provide any evidence they wanted to, in order to show the CMP on 
the recalculated mortgage account was affordable. Unfortunately, the evidence provided 
didnt show the higher monthly payment was affordable, and would have meant they 
wouldnt have had capacity to make payments toward the arrears or the MCA interest and 
balance. 
I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I am satisfied that Barclays acted appropriately 
when it decided not to rebuild their mortgage account to backdate the offset change, as it 
would have placed them in a worse financial position at the present time. 
Barclays offered to pay Mr and Mrs S £950 for the poor experience theyd had in relation to 
the handling of their complaint and the offset situation. This covered issues from Barclays 
not having explored changing the offset arrangement earlier to the poor communications 
during the complaint process about that issue. I know that Mr and Mrs S think this payment 
is inadequate, but I dont agree. I consider it is appropriate in the circumstances. 
I note that Mr and Mrs S have said they dont feel they are able to sell their house until the 
changes to the mortgage account are made and they know how much they owe. While they 
may feel that way now, I am not persuaded not knowing whether the offset change would be 
backdated or not, prevented them from selling the property. If they had done so, they could 
have continued with their complaint and any redress payable would have taken the sale into 
account. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman