DRN-3848511
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has failed to correct a 
technical issue that has made it difficult for him to log on to his account. 
What happened
Mr F tried to change his online Barclaycard username for logging on to his account; but he 
received an error message saying he hadnt met the criteria for a username, which needs to 
be a certain length and a mixture of letters and numbers. Mr F says he has complied with 
this but still cant change his username and, despite contacting Barclays, cant get it to 
understand his problem. After contacting Barclays, he could then access his online account, 
but only by putting in his long credit card number and not by using his preferred username. 
In response to his complaint, Barclays apologised for the technical problem and said it was 
still trying to sort it out. It paid him £100 in compensation. 
Mr F was not happy because Barclays hadnt by that point resolved the technical issue. So 
he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Barclays had been fair by 
giving £100 compensation because of the inconvenience caused to Mr F. And that Barclays 
had mitigated the impact by giving an alternative way of logging on (using the card number). 
The investigator said Barclays should continue to liaise with Mr F to tell him what it was 
doing to investigate the ongoing error.
Mr F said his complaint hadnt been resolved properly because hed done what Barclays had 
requested but the problem remained, as acknowledged by the investigators comments. As a 
result, the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that it has been very frustrating for Mr F to face this technical difficulty. 
Ultimately, he wanted to make a simple change, but has had continued problems in doing 
so. Fortunately, the nature of this issue hasnt meant that Mr F has been unable to access 
his online banking or any associated banking services. So any impact here is in relation to 
the understandable frustration and confusion Mr F has been caused by being unable to 
change his username as he wants.
However, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in the amount of compensation its 
awarded. Its also shown that its willing to work with Mr F to try to find a solution. It 
appears Barclays hasnt yet found a solution, but that doesnt mean it has been 
unreasonable in its efforts, or that it has handled Mr Fs complaint wrongly. It has, through 
our investigator, asked Mr F to try again to set up his username and send screenshots to 
help diagnose the problem. Hopefully Mr F and Barclays are able to find a way forward in 
respect of this issue soon.
So I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in what its suggested to put this 
complaint right. That means I wont be telling it to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman