DRN-3455554
Complaint
Mrs R has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays
Partner Finance (BPF) didnt agree to settle a claim against it under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974, in the way she wanted it to.
Background 
Mrs R bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from
BPF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs R that the
potential benefits shed receive from the solar panels would cover her monthly finance
payments.
BPF made an offer to settle the complaint, taking account of the benefit the solar panels
would likely provide over the term of Mrs Rs loan. BPF also offered Mrs R £300
compensation to help alleviate the financial difficulties she said she was experiencing. But
Mrs R felt the offer did not fully compensate her for her losses as she has since moved
houses and no longer receives any benefit. She wanted to rescind the contract in its entirety,
so, she referred the matter to us.
Mrs Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. While he agreed the
complaint should be upheld, he felt the offer made by BPF was fair and it didnt need to do
anything further. Mrs R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman
for a final decision.
In my provisional decision of 13 April 2022, I set out in detail why I felt the offer made by 
BPF to settle the complaint was fair. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions 
they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. Neither BPF nor Mrs R made any 
further submissions. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
BPF is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
BPF has already agreed to uphold the complaint so I dont need to consider that part of
Mrs Rs complaint as part of this decision. The only issue left for me to consider is whether
the offer made by BPF to settle the complaint is fair.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I agree with BPFs offer of
compensation, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ill explain why.
Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly,
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not always an exact
science and it is all the more difficult in a case like this where solar panels have been
installed at a property, which the consumer no longer resides at.
Ive considered if its fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar panels and give
Mrs R a refund of all the payments shes made (less any financial benefit gained from the
installation of the solar panels). But I dont think this is fair. Mrs R says her installers are no
longer trading so BPF would have to arrange to have this done at their expense. Theyd also
have to gain permission to access a third partys house and remove the solar panels, with
the added complication that they may not agree (bearing in mind they likely purchased the
property aware of the solar panels and this wouldve likely formed part of their consideration
when negotiating the purchase price of the property). This may be disproportionate,
impractical and potentially not feasible. And there is an alternative that will put Mrs R in a fair
position.
I think that Mrs R purchased the panels on the basis that the finance payments would be
covered by the benefit provided by the solar panels. So, Ive carefully considered whether it
would be fair to put Mrs R into the position she would have been in if the representations had
been true and installation of the solar panels had been self-funding over the term of the loan
agreement. That is not our normal approach where there has been a misrepresentation, as
wed normally try and put her in the position shed be in if the misrepresentation had not
taken place at all.
But in these types of cases, due to the reasons explained above, I think that it would be fair
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint for BPF to put things right by
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income from
the solar panels over the 10- year term of the loan so she pays no more than that. This is the
offer made by BPF and in line with what we normally suggest, and I think the offer made by
BPF is fair.
House Move
Mrs R does not wish to accept this offer as she has moved houses before the end of the
term of the loan, and is no longer in receipt of any benefit (either savings on her bills or
payments from the Feed In Tariff scheme (FIT)). But she has continued to make payments
under the loan agreement.
I appreciate that Mrs R moved houses and left her system behind on the old property so is
no longer receiving any benefit. But I do not think it would be fair to ask BPF to calculate
compensation by making allowance only for the actual returns Mrs R received whilst
she resided at the property in question. Mrs R independently chose to move after the sale of
the solar panel system and chose not to take the system with her. Therefore, she would
have been aware, she would receive no further return from the system, but was still liable to
make the loan payments. And even if the loan had been self-funding from the start, her
position would be no different. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask BPF to take this into
account in the circumstances.
I have carefully considered this point, but remain of the view that fair compensation would be
to make the solar panel system self-funding over the 10-year term of the loan, despite the
benefit from the solar panel system having been transferred to the new owners of the house.
The purpose of this redress is to put right the misrepresentations made at the point of sale 
which I think this redress method fairly achieves.Financial Difficulties
I understand that Mrs R has suffered ongoing financial difficulties for a significant amount of
time. BPF has said that payments have been maintained under its loan agreement but if
Mrs R would like to discuss her circumstances with it, she is free to contact it. Additionally,
as explained by our investigator, it has also offered a £300 goodwill compensation payment
to her.
Overall, I think BPF has treated Mrs R sympathetically, as we would expect it to. If she
requires any further assistance, she can contact it to discuss next steps.
BPF responded to my provisional decision but said it had no further points to make. Mrs R 
also responded and said she had no further submissions to make but she would like to 
accept option C as set out in the redress options below. In the absence of any new points for 
me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this complaint and BPF should put things 
right as Ive set out below. 
I would add that Mrs R has recently advised that shes suffered the loss of her partner. I 
appreciate this is likely to be an extremely difficult period for her and Im very sorry to hear 
this news. I understand Mrs R has said shed like to accept option C, but if shed now like to 
reconsider her options, she is able to do so and she should let us know if shed still like to 
accept option C or if another option now better suits her needs.  
I would add that as explained in my provisional decision, the obligation on BPF to treat its 
customers positively and sympathetically when they are experiencing financial difficulties is 
ongoing. If Mrs R struggles to maintain the new payments under the restructured loan, given 
her current difficult circumstances, she can get in touch with BPF to discuss what (if 
anything) it can do to help.
putting things right
Having thought about everything again, as offered by BPF, I think BPF should recalculate 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income from the solar 
panels over the full 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that.
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs R is paying (or has paid) more than she should
have BPF needs to reimburse Mrs R accordingly. Should the calculation show that the
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with
Mrs R by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require BPF to
restructure Mrs Rs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs R in a position where the
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Rs monthly repayments would reduce,
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs R
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a)  the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and shepays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she continues to make her current
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, she should again indicate on the acceptance form which 
option she wishes to accept. 
If Mrs R has since settled the loan, BPF should pay Mrs R the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs R has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs R should supply evidence of the refinance
to BPF, and BPF should:
1. Refund the extra Mrs R paid each month with the BPF loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund
5. Pay Mrs R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
The £300 offer made by BPF was a gesture of goodwill and I havent seen any reason why it
should be required to pay any more.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) to pay Mrs R the compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman