DRN-3866087
The complaint
Miss F has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt credit the full amount of a cash deposit 
to her account.
What happened
In August 2022, Miss F deposited cash at an ATM at a Santander branch, which she 
explained totalled £1,640.
The machine experienced an error and did not log her deposit. The staff were unable to fix 
the machine and left it partially disassembled. It was then reconciled the following day.
Santander initially credited Miss Fs account with £840 of cash theyd recovered. According 
to their records, Santander then found the remaining £800, and they told Miss F as such. But 
Santander then said this was a mistake and theyd not found the remaining £800. They said 
the staff member must have got this mixed up with the £840 already paid. Based on what 
theyd found, Santander felt Miss F had only deposited £840.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They found the 
internal documents were clear that the staff had found the remaining £800. They proposed 
that Santander refund the remaining £800 and pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused.
Santander didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced case. But like our investigator, I think the most reasonable outcome 
is for Miss F to be paid the funds that she said she lost.
The ATMs electronic logs show that Miss F attempted a deposit, though they dont show 
how much cash was in her envelope. They also show that the machine experienced a 
significant error which caused Miss Fs deposit to get effectively mislaid.
Miss F reported this to Santander straight away, and shes been clear and consistent that 
she deposited £1,640. It doesnt seem especially likely that shed forget how much she tried 
to deposit just moments after the attempt, nor that she would be untruthful when as far as 
she knew the staff could just open the machine and count the money in her envelope there 
and then. Ive not found any good reason to disbelieve Miss F.
On the other hand, Santanders testimony has been confused and contradictory. They told 
Miss F theyd found the missing £800, but now claim theyd got mixed up with the £840 
already paid.
I dont find this explanation to be especially likely or plausible. Santanders records say 
clearly that they located the remaining funds  i.e. the remaining £800. The initial £840 had 
already been found and credited to Miss F days earlier, so I dont think they were referencing 
that. The only funds remaining were the £800 in dispute  which was the whole basis of the 
complaint being looked into. Santander then left a message for Miss F clearly stating that the 
£800 would credit her account soon  not the £840 which already credited days before. 
So Santanders records seem specific that they found the remaining £800 and were planning 
to credit this to Miss Fs account, having already credited the initial £840.
Its technically possible that the staff member might have got mixed up in the way that 
Santander now suggests. But then its also possible that there was a different mix up, 
instead. The ATM was handled at various times including dealing with the jam initially, the 
morning housekeeping, balancing, and the subsequent repair. Its possible that different 
portions of Miss Fs money were found at different times and were not properly recorded; or 
that both £840 of her cash and £800 of her cash were found separately but were accidentally 
recorded as being the same due to the similar amounts. And those possibilities seem more 
in keeping with Santanders own internal notes and Miss Fs consistent testimony.
Its also worth reiterating that this all stems from an error on Santanders end. Their machine 
was malfunctioning, Santander were unable to initially clear it, sort it, or fix it, and it was left 
disassembled with an engineer called out. The next day, it was noted that the ATM had been 
left open. So it seems there was a notable point of compromise for some of Miss Fs cash to 
go missing after her attempted deposit.
Ultimately, while I appreciate Santanders point of view and accept that their investigation 
concluded only £840 was deposited, I am not satisfied that Santander logged the correct 
amount here. Given the evidence at hand and the balance of probabilities, I think its more 
likely that they failed to properly process Miss Fs full deposit.
It follows that I think the best thing is for the disputed amount to be credited to Miss Fs 
account, and for Santander to compensate her for the time she was without her money and 
for the distress they caused her.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
refund the remaining £800;
pay simple interest to Miss F on this £800, at the rate of 8% simple a year, payable 
from the date of her attempted deposit until the date the £800 is now credited . This 
is to compensate Miss F for the time she didnt have her money.
pay Miss F £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this simple interest. Santander 
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one. If Miss F 
does not normally pay tax, then she may be able to claim it back from HMRC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Fs complaint, and direct Santander UK Plc to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman