DRN-4155840
The complaint
Mr R complaints through a representative that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) 
gave him a line of credit without carrying out the appropriate affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr R was granted a running credit facility on 6 November 2021. This had a £2,000 credit 
limit  and this limit was decreased to £1,940 in April 2022. Mr R has had some problems 
repaying the facility and by May 2023 he still owed £1,720.21 which was being repaid 
through a debt management plan. 
Mr R was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr R was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter issued in January 2023, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Mr R before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly 
repayment, Mr R was likely to be able to afford it. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Rs representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman, where it was considered by an adjudicator. In her latest assessment 
she thought the checks Drafty carried out before initially granting this facility were likely 
proportionate. Although, she did have some concerns over the amount of income Mr R had 
declared. But she concluded, that even if Drafty had verified Mr Rs monthly income it still 
wouldve approved the facility. 
Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility and having reviewed the way Mr R 
borrowed and repaid the facility, she did have some concerns around Mr Rs use of it given 
the number of drawn downs and repayments in November 2021. And the small gap between 
when Mr R would make a payment and then withdraw again ought to have led to Drafty to 
have carried out further checks in January 2022 to ensure the facility was sustainable and 
affordable. 
Mr R provided copy bank statements and the adjudicator was able to see that in the month 
before  December 2021 Mr R had repaid other credit providers around £1,700 and had 
recently taken new borrowing totalling £1,000. So, she upheld his complaint as Mr R was 
unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay this lending. 
Mr R, through his representative, agreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached.  
Drafty didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said based on previous Financial 
Ombudsmans decisions it would only request bank statements where there was evidence 
that the facility may not have been affordable. At the time of the application Mr R had 
sufficient disposable income. Mr Rs use of the facility was as Drafty expected, and the trend 
of Mr R repaying the facility and then borrowing again hadnt been ongoing for long enough 
to have made Drafty believe it needed to do further checks. 
However, Drafty did agree to uphold the complaint from 23 May 2022 which is when it was 
first told of Mr Rs financial difficulties. Drafty offered to refund the interest fees and charges 
paid towards the account and it also agreed to remove the adverse information reported on 
Mr Rs credit file.
The adjudicator explained why these comments hadnt changed her mind. But she did put 
Draftys offer to Mr R but it wasnt accepted. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Rs
Drafty facility.
As explained, Mr R was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that means the 
checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Mr R would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Rs repayment record for any sign that he
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Mr R accepted the findings the adjudicator reached about the complaint  which was to 
uphold the complaint from 28 January 2022. And Drafty also didnt appear to disagree with 
the adjudicators findings that it made a reasonable decision to provide the facility. So, I 
wont be making a finding about whether Drafty was right or wrong to have approved the 
facility because this element of the complaint is resolved.What I would add, because its important for the context of how Mr R used the facility is like 
the adjudicator, I dont think it was reasonable, based on the information that Mr R had 
provided for Drafty to believe that he had over £8,000 per month in disposable income. This 
large amount stemmed from the fact Mr R declared that he earned £9,999 per month.
I dont think at this time, Drafty needed to have verified his expenditure, but I do think it 
wouldve been prudent to have checked Mr Rs income perhaps with a payslip. Had it done 
so, it wouldve likely discovered his income was around £2,300 per month while this still 
made the facility affordable I have kept this in mind when thinking about how Mr R used his 
facility. 
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the
end of its obligations to Mr R. When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says 
should be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, which could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Mr Rs repayment record 
and how he used the facility and step in if and when he showed signs of possible repayment 
difficulties.
The conclusions Ive reached in this section, are related to my view that Drafty, as Ive 
mentioned above ought to have done more before providing the facility to satisfy itself that 
Mr Rs income was accurate. 
On the day the facility was approved - 6 November 2021  Mr R withdrew the maximum 
amount that he could - £2,000. But within four hours of the drawdown Mr R had repaid 
£1,004 of the capital. Then around 12 hours later, and still on the same day, Mr R drew 
down another £500. Before withdrawing a further £300 on 9 November 2021.
On 10 November 2021, Mr R made a repayment of £500 before quickly withdrawing another 
£300. And then an hour after the repayment Mr R made a further payment of £240. The 
following day, Mr R withdrew another £300 before making a payment of £200. After this 
repayment on 11 and 12 November 2021 Mr R drew down another £500. 
Overall, I do think there were signs solely from the November 2021 usage of the facility that 
Mr R may have been having some difficulties given how quickly he was drawing down and 
making repayments. During the course of the month, he drew down £4,000 and made 
repayments totalling £2,080. This is a significant amount to borrow and repay considering 
Mr Rs actual income, which I think Drafty ought to have known about. 
So, while November 2021 usage was concerning, I dont think at this point it wouldve led 
Drafty to either do further checks or suspend the facility. 
Mr R also, at the end of the month made his monthly minimum repayment as expected, and 
around two days later, Mr R appears to have drawdown the maximum he could - £120 taking 
him back up to the credit limit. In December 2021, Mr R once again paid his minimum payment as expected of £212.60. 
However, a little over three hours after making the payment Mr R returned for further funds 
taking him back up to his credit limit by drawing down another £100. Although, Mr Rs usage 
of the facility had reduced as there were no other drawdowns in that month. 
At the end of January 2022, Mr R made his minimum payment again - £244.52 before 
returning later the same day to borrow all he could - £150 which again took Mr R back up to 
around his credit limit.  
This was now in effect the third month in row where Mr R had paid the minimum stipulated 
by Drafty before fairly quickly drawing down any available credit that he had left. Mr R had 
done this for three months in a row. And along with the significant usage which was seen in 
November 2021 as well as the concerns Ive already discussed  about Mr Rs income ought 
to have led Drafty to consider whether it knew enough about Mr Rs actual financial position. 
It therefore ought to have taken steps to build a full picture of his finances, which couldve 
been done a number of ways, such as reviewing copy bank statements, asking for evidence 
of his income, copy bills or asking for a full copy of his credit report. I can see that Drafty 
didnt do any of these. 
Mr R has provided copy bank statements for the period of time when he held the facility and 
so Ive considered these to see what Drafty may have discovered. Having done, so Ive seen 
much the same that the adjudicator pointed out in her view. Mr R had a number of high-cost 
credit loans, payday loans and a revolving credit facility  in December 2021 alone he paid 
around £1,500 to such creditors. On top of this he also had at least two credit cards which 
needed repaying which was cost at least another £150. 
And on top of this, he borrowed at least £700 new money that would need to be repaid and 
serviced in January 2023 from other high-cost providers - who he didnt appear to have been 
repaid in December 2023. This would indicate the start of a new relationship with another 
company. As well as further funds from a revolving credit facility that he held with another 
provider. These drawdowns in December 2021 came to a further £300. 
Overall, had Drafty carried out further checks  which is what I think it needed to do in 
January 2022 it wouldve likely discovered that Mr R wasnt in a position to continue to 
service the facility in a sustainable manner and Drafty shouldve stepped in and offered 
assistance. 
Ive thought about Draftys comments about the time that is usually passed or has been 
allowed to pass in other ombudsmans decision before either further checks were warranted 
and / or the facility obviously became unsustainable for a consumer. Drafty says in this case, 
that point has been reached too early. 
But my remit is to consider the individual circumstances of a complaint in order to come to a 
decision and as part of that a review of the way Mr R used the facility is a factor. Of course, 
being consistent is part of that, but that consistency wouldnt and doesnt mean that I cant 
and shouldnt consider the individual circumstances of a complaint. And Im satisfied that in 
Mr Rs case a review of the early part of the lending relationship is important context when 
deciding whether Drafty did anything wrong. 
And, for the reasons above, I do think there were some concerning signs fairly early in the 
lending relationship that Mr R may have been having some difficulties given how quickly he 
was borrowing and then making repayments towards the facility. For the reasons outlined above, I am upholding the complaint, in part, from 28 January 2022 
and Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for Mr R. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Drafty should carry out the following:
Re-work Mr Rs credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to 
it from 28 January 2022 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr R to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Rs credit file, it 
should backdate this to 28 January 2022.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr R, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Rs credit file.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am upholding Mr Rs complaint in part. 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr R as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman