DRN-3699673
The complaint
Miss L complains that the hire purchase agreement she entered into with MotoNovo Finance 
Limited was not affordable.
What happened
In July 2016, Miss L was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The agreement was for £8,680 over 60 months, with 59 monthly payments of 
£168.78 and a final payment of £367.78.  
Miss L said that she wasnt aware that shed taken out a personal loan and a hire purchase 
agreement. She also complained that the car was rusty and had failed its MOT. In October 
2019 one of our ombudsmen issued a final decision explaining why he was not upholding 
Miss Ls complaint about these matters.
Miss L said she entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in December 2017 
as she was in financial difficulty. She said she gave up the car in 2019. She complained that 
she should never have been given the loan, especially as she had just come out of hospital 
following major surgery.
MotoNovo said that when making the decision to lend to Miss L they relied on information 
from the credit reference agencies, and information shed supplied at the time of the 
application. They said shed told them she had been in employment for five years and was 
receiving an annual income of £15,000. They said her credit score showed that she met both 
their lending criteria and risk appetite. 
They said theyd reviewed the information again after receiving this complaint. They said that 
this showed she had a disposable income of more than £600 a month, and they were 
satisfied the lending was affordable and sustainable. They said she had maintained her 
payments and the agreement ended in November 2019.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ls complaint. She didnt think that MotoNovo had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Miss L would be able to 
repay the agreement in a sustainable way. But she said that, based on the information Miss 
L was able to provide, she thought that if MotoNovo had carried out appropriate checks they 
would likely have considered the agreement to be affordable.
Miss L said she doesnt have bank statements from 2016. Shes unhappy that she had to 
make payments for a car that she said wasnt fit for the road. She also commented that 
shed be given another loan even though shed just had major surgery and wouldnt be fit for 
work for some time. She confirmed to our investigator that she received paid sick leave from 
her employer and some of the payments on this agreement were covered by a payment 
protection policy.
Because Miss L didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss L was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when MotoNovo lent to Miss L. It 
required MotoNovo to lend responsibly. Its rules and guidance are found in its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), available online. The rules required MotoNovo to take 
reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to 
meet loan repayments in a sustainable manner without falling into financial difficulty.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Miss L would be able to repay her agreement in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did they make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss L would 
have been able to sustainably repay the agreement?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Miss L would be able to repay her agreement in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, MotoNovo were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ls ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means they needed to 
consider whether or not Miss L could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to MotoNovo as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not necessarily the 
same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to, the amount of credit, the financial position of the customer at the 
time of the lending decision, and the customers credit history and existing financial 
commitments. 
Miss L was entering into a significant financial commitment: requiring her to pay £141 every 
month for five years. So, I think any reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
affordability ought to have been reasonably thorough.MotoNovo said they approved the lending based on Miss Ls annual income of £15,000, and 
her credit score. They said this was sufficient to meet their lending criteria.
Its not clear what credit information MotoNovo obtained or relied on as they havent 
provided it. So Ive considered the credit file information Miss L provided. This shows she 
had a £5,000 credit limit on a credit card, alongside two other unsecured lending 
agreements.
The rules Ive referred to above say that in assessing affordability MotoNovo should consider 
Miss Ls existing financial commitments. I cant see any evidence that they did that. So I 
dont see how they could have satisfied themselves that Miss L had sufficient disposable 
income to cover the cost of this agreement. I think MotoNovo should have sought further 
information about the impact of these existing financial commitments on Miss Ls disposable 
income to determine whether or not she could have taken on this financial commitment with 
them sustainably. Im not satisfied therefore that MotoNovo carried out reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss L would have been able 
to sustainably repay the agreement?
I cant be sure what information and evidence MotoNovo would have asked for or received 
had they carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability assessment. However, as I 
have said above, I do think MotoNovo should have asked her more about her expenditure. 
So Ive considered what I think they would likely have discovered had they done so.
Miss L has provided us with a bank statement from July 2016. This gives me a brief 
summary of her income and her committed monthly expenditure. The starting balance for the 
month is £211: £886 is credited during the month, and £385 leaves the account, leaving the 
account £713 in credit at the end of the period.
The statement also shows income from Miss Ls employer of £866. This confirms what 
MotoNovo say Miss L told them at the time. So I think it would have been reasonable for 
them to use this figure to satisfy themselves this was her regular salary. In any case Miss L 
has provided pay statements for three months up to July 2016. These show that her regular 
income was more than the £866 she received in July 2016. 
Ive looked at the bank statement Miss L has provided to see what she would have likely told 
MotoNovo had they asked her for details about her committed monthly expenditure. I cant 
be sure what would have been disclosed at the time, but this is the only evidence thats been 
provided. These indicate that Miss Ls monthly expenditure in the month of the lending 
decision, including travel, fuel, insurance, and phone, was around £180 a month. Miss L has 
told us she lived with family so had no rent or other utility bills to pay.
Adding the monthly payment for this agreement (£141), means her total monthly outgoings 
was around £321. Using the lower take home pay of £866 for July 2016, she would have 
been left with a disposable income of £545. At this point Id say it was reasonable for 
MotoNovo to conclude that Miss L had sufficient disposable income to sustainably afford the 
repayments.
Ive also looked at the other financial commitments showing on Miss Ls credit report. These 
show two running credit accounts with a catalogue shopping provider, one credit card, and a 
previous agreement with MotoNovo. The credit report shows some missed payments on the 
catalogue accounts  but it also showed that Miss L had paid £99 every month on the 
previous agreement they had with her. As monthly repayments on catalogue accounts tend to be of lower amounts, I think it would have been reasonable for MotoNovo to make a 
lending decision based on the risk assessment from that information. 
I think that, had MotoNovo completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, its 
likely they would still have concluded the agreement was affordable. So I dont think 
MotoNovo needs to do anything to put things right.
Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss L complains that she had to pay for a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. I wont be 
considering this matter as one of our ombudsmen issued a final decision in October 2019 
explaining why he was not upholding Miss Ls complaint about this issue.
Miss L had serious surgery just before she entered into the agreement. She said she was 
still under duress from the operation when she signed the agreement. I wont be considering 
this matter further as this was also addressed by our ombudsman in his final decision made 
in October 2019. He said he was satisfied the documentation explaining the agreement as a 
loan and a hire purchase agreement was clear. So he didnt think MotoNovo had done 
anything wrong. 
Im aware that Miss L has been going through a difficult time following her surgery and later 
financial difficulties. But Ive carefully considered whether or not it was fair and reasonable 
for MotoNovo to make the decision to lend to her, and as Ive explained above, Im satisfied 
it was.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint about MotoNovo Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman