DRN-1583223
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about two cheques being returned unpaid.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Lloyds returned unpaid two cheques Mr and Mrs P issued to buy premium bonds. 
They are unhappy about this and that a suitable explanation hasnt been given. They 
also say they have lost out on the chance of winning a prize. 
Lloyds says the cheques were returned as they werent signed in accordance with 
the account mandate. But here the signatures on the cheques were in fact a good 
match to those it held on record. Lloyds has acknowledged the signatures were 
showing in the wrong place on its electronic signature database which meant they 
were missed and the cheques were returned unpaid to prevent fraud.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration at whats happened. But its important that 
businesses like Lloyds have processes and procedures in place to try to identify 
fraud when things arent apparently right. Its in the nature of processes like these 
that genuine customers, like Mr and Mrs P, may be inconvenienced by them, but 
thats not to say that Lloyds shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have 
followed them as it did here.
It is clear Lloyds' system error led to the cheques being wrongly returned unpaid. 
Lloyds has acknowledged the mistake and given what I think is a reasonable 
explanation of what happened. And I dont think I can ask it to give more information 
about its systems or what happened as Mr P would like. 
Mr P also complains about some of Lloyds' processes on the phone and in branch. 
But this service isnt a regulator, and we cant require a business to change its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking industry works are 
a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Lloyds has accepted it has caused Mr and Mrs P inconvenience and has offered to 
pay them £150 compensation. Taking everything into account, including the level of 
awards we make, I think thats fair. 
Mr and Mrs P have also said Lloyds' mistake led to them losing the chance of 
winning a premium bond prize. But I have seen nothing to suggest that is the case as 
there is often a delay between bonds being bought and them being entered into a 
later draw. In addition, the chance of any individual bond winning a prize are actually 
very small and there is no certainty any of their new bonds would've won a 
prize even if bought slightly earlier. So, I don't think I can fairly or reasonably require Lloyds to compensate Mr or Mrs P for any lost chance of possibly winning a prize or 
for any notional prize that might've possibly been won.
Overall, I cant reasonably require Lloyds to do anything more or differently, as Mr 
and Mrs P would like.
 
For these reasons, although I recognise Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling and frustration I 
do not uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to them to decide if they want to accept Lloyds 
offer of £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman