DRN-3235926
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
I sent Miss S and Monzo a provisional decision on 1 December 2021 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss S under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Miss S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The 
CRM code places a level of care on Miss S too, so Ive considered whether she met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) although it isnt a signatory. The CRM 
code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the 
firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Miss S under the terms of the CRM code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM code applies in the circumstances of this 
case, specifically that Miss S lacked a reasonable basis for belief that the payments were for 
genuine services or the person she was paying was legitimate.
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Miss Ss position. But I need to 
consider not just whether Miss S believed what she was being told, but whether it was 
reasonable for her to do so.
Miss S was contacted on a social media platform by someone she had no previous 
relationship with. She hadnt initiated contact with the person, so Id reasonably expect her to 
be a little cautious about why shed been contacted and the offer that was made. And while 
its not unheard of for legitimate companies to communicate using social media, Id expect 
this to take place alongside more formal communication  such as email. So I think all the 
communication taking place on the social media platform and through a messaging app 
should also have made Miss S question the legitimacy of the person she was speaking to.
I also think the offer the scammer made was too good to be true. Miss S was told an initial 
investment of £300 would return an average of £2,000-5,000 within 24 hours and that there 
was no risk of losing her initial investment. I appreciate Miss S may not have invested 
previously, but I think a reasonable person would still find this return unusually high, 
particularly in such a short period of time, with no real persuasive explanation of how it would 
be achieved and with a no loss guarantee  which I think is an unrealistic feature of an 
investment opportunity.
Miss S clearly also had some suspicions about the investment, as she asked the scammer 
to prove it was legitimate. But I dont think the explanations or reassurances she was given 
were convincing. She was sent screenshots showing payments being made to other clients, 
copies of messages from successful clients thanking the scammer for their profit and a video 
supposedly showing the scammers desk and trading screen. But these were all provided by 
the scammer and I dont think there would be any way for Miss S to check they were 
legitimate or that other people had actually made money through the scammers services. 
Miss S also asked the scammer which company they worked for and says she checked that 
companys website. But she doesnt appear to have checked that the scammer worked for 
the company or been sent anything showing the scammer was working for the company 
before sending the first payment.
So I dont think Miss S had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for genuine 
services or that the person she was paying was legitimate before making the first payment of 
£300. And I dont think anything that happened after that could have given her that belief in 
making the subsequent payments either.
After asking for evidence that the person hadnt just taken her money, Miss S was sent a 
table showing her initial investment and the profit it had generated. But its not clear what 
trades took place to generate this profit and the other numbers on the table dont appear to 
relate to each other. For example, the amount listed as 20% commission isnt equal to 20% 
of any of the other numbers in the table and the pending account balance doesnt equal the 
trade surplus minus the trade deficit.
The table also showed a premium Miss S needed to pay. And when Miss S queried this with 
the scammer she was told she needed to pay this release fee before the profits could be 
released to her. But it doesnt appear this fee was mentioned before Miss S made the initial 
investment, so I think this could have caused Miss S further concern.
Miss S says she cant remember exactly what reasons she was given for the subsequent 
payments but thinks it was management fees or penalty fees. I think these continued 
requests for more money should have caused her significant concern, particularly as she 
ultimately sent the scammer more money than shed been told her initial investment had 
made. I also think being asked to send the money to various different people, rather than a business account for example, should also have caused her concern. And it doesnt appear 
that the explanations she received were particularly clear or convincing.
While Miss S says she checked the sort codes of the account details she was given, saw 
that they were for banks in the UK and so thought they were ok, I dont think these checks 
should have been enough to counter all the other concerns that should have arisen over the 
course of the scam.
So I dont think Miss S had a reasonable basis for belief in making any of the payments.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss S?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has 
met this standard or not should include consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
Im also mindful that, when Miss S made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Though Miss S made a number of payments as part of the scam in a relatively short period 
of time, none of them were for particularly large amounts and I think the payments will have 
given little indication that Miss S was at risk of financial harm. So I dont think Monzo was 
obliged to provide an effective warning under the CRM code and I dont think it acted unfairly 
by allowing the payments to proceed.
Monzo also tried to recover the funds from the bank the payments were sent to. But several 
of those banks have sent us evidence which shows the payments were removed quickly 
after they were received. So I think its unlikely any action by Monzo could have led to the 
recovery of Miss Ss funds.
Im satisfied Monzo hasnt made an error by declining to refund Miss S under the CRM code, 
that it processed the payments correctly and that it did everything it ought reasonably to 
have done once it was aware of the scam. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Monzo to 
refund Miss Ss loss.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss S. Theres no dispute that shes been the 
victim here and its not my intention to make her feel any worse about what happened. But I 
hope she will understand the reasons why Ive reached my provisional decision.
I said Id consider anything further Miss S and Monzo sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo said it didnt have any further information to add following the provisional decision. 
Miss S replied with a number of points, which Ill address below.
Miss S firstly said that a number of businesses use social media and messaging apps to 
communicate with clients. But I still think the scammer contacting her without her having 
initiated contacted first should have raised concerns for Miss S. And Id still expect there to be more formal communication alongside any use of social media or messaging apps, 
particularly given the amounts of money involved.
Miss S also said that the website of the trading company the scammer said they worked for 
looked legitimate and that she did ask questions of the scammer but was convinced by their 
responses that they were legitimate. But Miss S wasnt given, and didnt ask for, any 
evidence showing the scammer actually worked for that trading company. And, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the explanations she was given were 
particularly convincing. So I still dont think the checks she did or the explanations she was 
given should have been enough to overcome the concerns she should have had or to 
persuade her the person she was speaking to was legitimate.
Miss S said she felt the payments she made to the scammer were unusual in comparison to 
the previous transactions on her account. But while the payments to the scammer were for 
larger amounts than many of her previous transactions, I still dont feel they were for large 
enough amounts that Monzo should have identified she was at risk of financial harm or was 
obliged to provide an effective warning to her under the CRM code.
Miss S highlighted other cases where customers received refunds from their banks. But we 
look at each case individually, on its own merits. So one person getting a refund doesnt 
mean that another will automatically get one too. And, as Ive explained, I dont think it would 
be fair to require Monzo to refund Miss Ss loss here.
Miss S also mentioned direct debits on her account which she says she didnt set up. But I 
cant see that she has raised these as part of this complaint previously, and so it wouldnt be 
fair for me to comment on them here. If Miss S wants these direct debits looked into further 
she should raise them directly with Monzo and, if shes not happy with Monzos response, 
refer them to our service as a new complaint.
I sympathise with the position Miss S has found herself in. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and has lost a significant amount of money as a result. But I cant hold Monzo 
responsible for the scam taking place and can only look at whether I think Monzo has acted 
reasonably in not refunding her loss. And for the reasons given above, I still think the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision are correct and so I still dont think it would be 
fair to require Monzo to refund Miss Ss loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman