DRN-1540472
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with MotoNovo. At 
the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered around 24,800 miles.
Mr F raised a complaint with MotoNovo in May 2019, around 6 weeks after the point of 
supply. He was unhappy because hed washed the car and found what looked like a 
waxy/gritty layer still present. 
Mr F contacted the supplying dealer who inspected the car and recommended that it needed 
buffing. In the meantime, Mr F visited a specialist who advised him that the car had been 
covered in a form of protective coating and provided Mr F with a paintwork cleaner to 
remove the coating.
When Mr  removed the coating he noticed numerous chips and scratches on the bodywork. 
He complained to MotoNovo.
In response, MotoNovo said it couldnt assist with cosmetic issues because Mr F had 
inspected the car prior to the point of supply and had accepted it.
Mr F wasnt happy with MotoNovos response and complained to this service. He feels that 
the chips and scratches  were deliberately covered up and that he was misled into 
purchasing the car. He says he wouldnt have purchased the car if hed known it was in that 
condition.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said the scratches and chips were likely to have 
been present at the point of supply and that the protective coating would have impacted Mr 
Fs ability to see the damage when he inspected the car prior to purchase. The investigator 
said that Mr F should be allowed to reject the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that if the scratches and chips had been present at the point 
of supply Mr F would have noticed these much sooner than 6 weeks into the agreement. It 
said that it wasnt unusual for a second hand car to have a protective coating.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances including, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car. Satisfactory 
quality includes freedom from minor defects, appearance and finish, safety and durability. I 
would expect a second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr F  to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the 
appearance and finish of the car fell below the standard that a reasonable person would 
expect. Id also need to be persuaded that Mr F didnt know about the damage prior to the 
point of supply. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to 
put things right. I can see that Mr F reported the issues with the bodywork within the first few 
weeks of entering into the agreement.
Ive looked at the photos of the damage. These show numerous chips and scratches on the 
paintwork. Taking into account the number and extent of the scratches and chips, I think this 
goes beyond what a reasonable person would accept as fair wear and tear on a  car of this 
age.
Ive thought about whether Mr F ought reasonably to have been aware of the scratches and 
chips prior to purchase. Mr F has said that it was only when the protective coating was 
removed that the damage was apparent. Im persuaded by Mr Fs testimony that it was only 
possible to see the damage once the protective coating had been removed. So, I dont think 
it would have been possible for Mr F to see the damage when he inspected the car prior to 
the point of supply.
Ive looked at the pre-sale documents provided by the supplying dealer. This says that a buff 
and dent repair was completed prior to the point of supply. I cant say whether the protective 
coating was applied at this stage or whether it was already on the car. But I cant see that Mr 
F was ever made aware that the car had a protective coating, so I dont think he was given a 
reasonable opportunity to decide whether he wanted to purchase the car with a protective 
coating on it.
I dont think its likely that the chips and scratches occurred after the point of supply. Based 
on what Ive seen in the photos, I think its unlikely that such widespread damage could have 
been caused in such a short time after the inception of finance. Due to the extent of the 
damage and the fact that it was concealed at the point of supply. I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality in terms of finish and appearance. 
MotoNovo has suggested that Mr F obtains a quote to have the scratches and chips 
repaired. However, given the extent of the damage and the further delay and inconvenience 
which would be caused to Mr F to have it repaired, and taking all the circumstances of the 
case into account, Im of the view that Mr F should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr F paid a deposit which should be refunded. I wont be asking MotoNovo to refund any 
monthly payments because the damage hasnt impacted Mr Fs ability to drive the car.
I can see that Mr F has suffered a degree of inconvenience. Hes had to return the car to the 
dealership and take it to a specialist. Hes also incurred some expenses, including obtaining 
a quote for repairs. Mr F has been consistent in his testimony that he wouldnt have 
purchased the car if hed known about the damage to the bodywork. Hes clearly been 
frustrated and upset by this experience,. So I think MotoNovo should pay compensation.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr F
Refund the deposit together with 8% simple interest from the date of purchase to the 
date of settlement
Remove the agreement from Mr Fs credit file
Pay compensation of £250
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman