DRN-3880297
The complaint
Ms M has complained that AIG Life Limited declined her critical illness claim after she was 
diagnosed with cancer and cancelled her policy because they said shed made a 
misrepresentation in her application. 
What happened
Ms M and her husband moved to the United Kingdom at the end of 2018.  At the start of 
2019, they used a financial adviser to buy life and critical illness cover from AIG to replace 
what theyd previously had. 
In late 2020, Ms M was contacted by the broker, who told her that AIG had recently 
introduced a new product with more favourable critical illness cover.  Mr and Ms M made 
fresh applications for these new policies, which started in November 2020.
Just over a year later, Ms M was diagnosed with cancer.  So she made a claim on her critical 
illness policy.  AIG declined the claim.  And they said Ms M had made a qualifying 
misrepresentation as she hadnt answered the health questions attached to the application 
form accurately.  So they were entitled to cancel the policies shed bought.
Ms M complained to AIG about their decision via her financial adviser.  AIG responded by 
confirming their claim decision and explaining theyd taken action in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).  Ms M wasnt satisfied with 
AIGs response.  So her financial adviser brought it to our service on her behalf.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded AIG didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it because the action theyd taken was what is permitted under CIDRA.  Ms M didnt 
agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.  I know shell be disappointed by my 
decision.  I hope it will help if I explain why Ive made it.
Its not my role to decide whether or not AIG should offer cover or pay Ms Ms claim.  Rather, 
I have to consider whether theyve acted reasonably and in line with the law.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
In this case, AIG say Ms M answered no to the following two questions:
Have you received or been advised to have any medical investigations, scans or blood tests 
in the last 5 years?
Have you been referred to, or been to see, any medical practitioner other than your GP in 
the last 5 years?"
AIG say she should have answered yes, because her medical records showed shed been 
undergone various investigations since 2017 and was awaiting an operation.  
Ive thought about those questions.  I think theyre clear.  And Ive noted that, at the time of 
the application, Ms M was waiting for an operation.  So I think it unlikely she would have 
misremembered her investigations.  And Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation.
I also need to be satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one  that is to say, one 
where, if the questions had been answered differently, theyd have made a different decision 
about offering the policy, or about the terms on which theyd offer.  Ive thought very carefully 
about this, because Ms Ms representative has told us AIGs underwriters told him during a 
phone call in April 2022 that, if theyd known about her medical conditions, they would have 
offered her cover.
Having done that, Im satisfied AIGs decision was reasonable.  Ive seen from their notes 
that the financial adviser did send them the information and they considered it.  Ive noted 
AIG concluded that, based on what theyd seen, Ms M wasnt undergoing investigations at 
the time she bought the 2019 policy.  
But that policy was cancelled.  And, by the time she was advised about the new policy in 
2020, Ms M was again undergoing investigations  which didnt end before she was 
diagnosed with cancer.  AIG have shown they wouldnt have offered cover until it those 
investigations were concluded.  That sadly never happened.  And that means Im satisfied 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
A qualifying misrepresentation can be categorised either as careless, or as deliberate or 
reckless.  AIG categorised it as reckless.  Based on the evidence Ive seen of Ms Ms 
ongoing investigations, and on the fact she was awaiting an operation, I think thats fair.  
However a qualifying misrepresentation is categorised, the misrepresentation allows an 
insurer is entitled void the policy from the outset.  In cases of reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation, they are also entitled to retain the premiums that have been paid.  
AIG havent done that in this case.  Thats more than theyre obliged to do in these 
circumstances.  So I dont think they need to do any more to resolve Ms Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint about AIG Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman