DRN-4421732
The complaint
Ms R complains that errors by Thomas Carroll (Brokers) Ltd denied her the opportunity of 
seeing if she was covered for a legal expenses insurance claim.
What happened
In June 2022 Ms R renewed her home insurance through Thomas Carroll. Shortly before the 
policy was due for renewal, she was sent a renewal invitation. This gave a breakdown of the 
total cost for the insurance and showed that legal expenses cover would be included, at a 
cost of £30. But when the policy documents were sent to Ms R after she renewed the policy, 
the schedule didnt say legal expenses cover was included.
In July 2022 Ms R sought advice from a solicitor about a probate dispute. The solicitor 
advised her to check whether she had legal expenses cover. Ms R says she checked the 
policy schedule and this said she didnt have legal expenses cover. So she has paid the 
legal fees relating to the dispute herself.
When Ms R received the renewal documents in June 2023 she noticed they referred to legal 
expenses insurance. She contacted Thomas Carroll to ask whether shed had legal 
expenses cover the previous year. Thomas Carroll confirmed that she had and said she 
should have been aware of this.
Ms R complained about the way Thomas Carroll had dealt with the renewal in 2022 and said 
its errors had prevented her from making a claim on her legal expenses insurance. Thomas 
Carroll didnt agree so she referred her complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator said Ms R would have known she had paid for legal expenses cover and 
could have contacted Thomas Carroll to confirm this. She didnt think Thomas Carroll should 
have to cover all her legal costs, but did accept Ms R had been caused some inconvenience 
and recommended compensation of £100 for this. Thomas Carroll accepted the 
recommendation and agreed to pay the compensation but Ms R didnt agree. She has 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When advising Ms R on her policy renewal, Thomas Carroll needed to provide appropriate 
information in good time to enable her to make an informed choice about what cover was 
needed and ensure the information provided was clear, fair and not misleading.
Some of the information wasnt clear. Thomas Carroll has said the legal expenses cover was 
placed with a different insurer from the home insurance cover because it offered better 
coverage. But the separate policy schedule and policy wording for the legal expenses cover 
werent provided with the home insurance documents. And the policy schedule didnt include 
legal expenses cover. 
However, the cover letter for the renewal set out the total premium payable and said £30 
was for legal expenses. It also said if Ms R wanted to remove that cover, she should call. So 
this showed legal expenses cover was included, she was being charged for it and if she 
decided she didnt want it she needed to let them know. 
Ms R paid the full price  including the cost of the legal expenses cover  and noted this on 
her copy of the letter. So I think she was aware she had paid for this. Her solicitor advised 
her to check if she had cover for the dispute. The policy schedule said legal expenses cover 
wasnt included. Bearing in mind she had been told it was included, and had paid for it to be 
included, she could have called Thomas Carroll to check. 
Even where a firm has got something wrong, if the customer could do something to protect 
their position or mitigate any loss, its reasonable to expect them to do so. Ms R says she 
checked the policy schedule. If that said something different from the other information  and 
particularly bearing in mind shed paid for legal expenses cover  then she could have 
phoned to check. Ms R says she was denied the opportunity to determine if she had legal 
expenses cover but she did have the opportunity to check. 
Even if she had legal expenses cover in place, that doesnt necessarily mean this particular 
claim would have been covered. All insurance includes terms and conditions that limit the 
cover provided. Thomas Carroll is a broker, not an insurer. It sold the policy but isnt 
responsible for claims. The insurer would need to consider the clam and assess whether it 
meets the requirements set out in the policy terms. A claim hasn't yet been made on the 
policy and I cant say whether it would be covered.
Ms R also says shes shocked the investigator didnt consider Thomas Carrolls actions to be 
wrong. Thomas Carroll did get some things wrong and did cause her some inconvenience. 
Its fair that shes compensated for this, but that doesnt mean Thomas Carroll is responsible 
for all of the costs relating to her legal dispute.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Thomas Carroll (Brokers) Ltd to pay compensation of £100 
to Ms R for the inconvenience caused to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman