DRN-2968942
The complaint
Mr H complains about Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) and their decision to decline his pet 
insurance claim.
What happened
On 22 December 2019, Mr H purchased a pet insurance policy with GLI to cover his dog, 
who Ill refer to as S. This policy covered S until 22 December 2020.
During this policy period, S developed an issue with its eye. GLI settled a claim relating to 
this condition earlier in the policy.
On 24 November 2020, Mr H e-mailed GLI to explain he wanted to cancel the policy once it 
had ended and asked for it not to be renewed. Unfortunately, Ss issue with its eye 
resurfaced and S received treatment for this again on 15 December. GLI settled this claim as 
the treatment was provided during the policy period.
But S needed surgery to fully rectify the problem. And this surgery took place on 20th 
January 2021, when the insurance policy Mr H held had expired. So, GLI denied this part of 
the claim, and any costs Mr H incurred. Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Mr H thought GLI were unfair to decline the claim. He explained the surgery was undertaken 
following a diagnosis in December 2020, when the policy was still in place. And he said hed 
submitted a pre-authorisation claim form to GLI for this. So, he thought GLI should accept 
his claim for Ss surgery and pay for the costs associated with this.
GLI responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when declining the claim, 
as S wasnt insured by them when the surgery was completed and Mr H had stop paying 
towards the cost of the insurance. They also felt they made it reasonably clear to Mr H that 
no further claims for treatment would be considered when the policy expired. So, they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong and didnt offer to do anything more. Mr M remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised the upset Mr 
H had been caused. But she didnt think GLI had acted unfairly by declining the claim, as the 
policy had ended when the surgery was undertaken. So, she didnt think GLI needed to do 
anything more
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt think it was fair for GLI to decline the claim, as he submitted a 
claim for the treatment on 15 December alongside the quotation for the surgery that took 
place in January. He thought GLI had failed to respond to him in a timely manner, meaning 
the surgery couldnt be completed when the policy was still live. So, he thought hed lost this 
opportunity. And he didnt think it was fair that the only way the surgery could be covered 
was if hed renewed his policy, as the surgery also wouldnt have been covered by a new 
insurer as it wouldve been classed as a pre-existing condition. So, he didnt think this was 
fair and wanted GLI to accept the claim. As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mr H. I can appreciate the 
costs involved with the surgery S underwent were substantial and will have had an impact on 
Mr Hs immediate finances. And I recognise at the time Mr H was informed S would need 
surgery, his insurance policy with GLI was in place. So, I understand why Mr H would 
assume this treatment would be covered by GLI, as theyd been covering treatment for the 
same condition up to that point. So, when GLI made Mr H aware they wouldnt be covering 
the costs of the surgery, I can appreciate how frustrating and upsetting this wouldve been 
for Mr H.
But for me to say GLI have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied theyve acted 
outside of the terms of policy. Or, if I dont think they have, that they acted unfairly by 
declining the claim. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether GLI have acted in line with the terms of the policy Mr H held. 
And its not in dispute that the surgery took place after the policy had been cancelled. 
Despite this, Mr H thinks the claim shouldve been upheld as the surgery was agreed with 
Ss vet when S was seen in December 2020, when the policy was still in place. And he 
thinks he submitted a pre-authorisation claim to GLI on the same day.
But GLI have confirmed they dont pre-authorise treatment for any of their customers. And 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr H did submit a pre-authorisation form, or that one 
was available. What I have seen if the treatment S received on that day was covered, as the 
policy was still active at that point. 
And Mr H was also confirmed he received no response from GLI to the claim he submitted 
on that day until January 2020, after the policy had expired. So, even if Mr H did attempt to 
pre-authorise the surgery, I dont think GLI confirmed they would agree to this before the 
policy expired. 
So, I think the surgery S underwent was completed when Mr H no longer held a valid policy 
with GLI. So, it would be unfair for me to say GLI acted outside of the terms of the policy, 
when there was no valid policy to act within.
And I think Mr H wouldve been aware of this, as it was his decision to cancel the policy 
when it was due for renewal. I think Mr H was aware of the date this would be, as Mr H has 
said himself he rushed through the claim for treatment on 15 December as he was aware he 
was nearing the end of his policy. And Ive seen GLI sent Mr H an e-mail following the end of 
his policy, which explained that no further claims for treatment would be considered under 
the policy that had expired. Despite this, Mr H continued with the surgery. Thats not to say I 
dont appreciate this was the action Mr H needed to take as I recognise it was treatment S 
needed as diagnosed by Mr Hs vet. So, Ive then thought about whether GLI acted fairly when deciding to decline the claim. Mr H 
doesnt think they have, as he wouldnt have been able to claim the costs with another 
insurer as it wouldve been treated as a pre-existing condition. And Mr H is correct this 
wouldve been the case. 
But crucially, it wasnt GLIs decision the cancel the insurance and prevent the policy from 
renewing. It was Mr Hs. When Mr H took S for further treatment in December 2020, he was 
aware the policy was due to end. So, I think Mr H couldve contacted GLI and asked to 
renew the policy if he thought S was likely to need further treatment. He didnt do this and 
instead, he allowed the policy to end even though he was aware further treatment was 
required. While I appreciate Mr H may not have understood this would be the case, I cant 
see Mr H attempted to clarify this with GLI in any other way than submitting a claim for the 
treatment completed in December 2020. 
And although Mr H thinks GLIs failure to handle this claim in a timely manner impacted his 
ability to utilise the policy and arrange the surgery within it, I dont agree. There isnt a set 
time for businesses such as GLI to respond to a claim. But this claim was made just 7 days 
before the policy was due to expire and I dont think GLI have acted unreasonably slowly by 
not giving a decision within this time. And even if they had, any treatment completed after 
the expiry of the policy wouldnt have been covered.
Mr H has said if hed been made aware this was the case, hed have arranged for the 
surgery to be completed while the policy was in place. But Ive seen no evidence to show 
this wouldve been feasible with the treating vet. And even if it was, I think Mr H was aware 
of the policy end date and he had the option to speak to GLI directly before this date to fully 
understand what would happen if any treatment was completed after the policy lapsed. And I 
cant see that he did so. So, I dont think Ive seen anything that shows GLI acting unfairly on 
this occasion and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves him 
having to cover the costs of the treatment whilst also being unable to insure S for any further 
treatment for the diagnosed condition. But I dont think this is because of anything GLI has 
done wrong so Im unable to hold them responsible for this,
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman