DRN-3346316
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the length of time it took Domestic & General Insurance Plc to refund 
him after he cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr N purchased two laptops from a high street retailer and at the same time purchased 
accidental damage cover which was provided by D&G. 
Soon after purchase he decided to return the first laptop to the retailer and arranged for a 
refund of the premium paid for the accidental damage cover which was £80. Not long after 
returning the first laptop, Mr N decided to return the second laptop and arranged for the 
accidental damage cover for that laptop to be cancelled on 6 April 2021. He requested a 
refund for the premium paid on the second policy which was £80.
D&G processed the refund for cover for the first laptop and sent Mr N a cheque to cover this 
within a reasonable time. They also processed the refund for the second policy on 8 April 
2021 however, as the address held on this account for Mr N was incomplete, they emailed 
Mr N to validate it. Mr N responded on 9 April 2021 and the cheque was processed on 12 
April 2021.
Mr N didnt receive the cheque in relation to second policy, so he contacted D&G on 30 April 
2021. The agent advised that the second cheque had been processed and should be with 
Mr N by 14 May.
On 21 May 2021 Mr N called D&G again as the cheque hadnt arrived, and he made a 
formal complaint about the delay. D&G responded to Mr Ns complaint on 27 May 2021. 
They apologised for the delay but confirmed the cheque had been cashed and deemed the 
complaint resolved.
On 28 May 2021 Mr N called back as he still hadnt received the second cheque. The agent 
reviewed the file and explained there had been a misunderstanding. In previous calls the 
agents had requested the cheque be re-issued but this was done on the account that Mr N 
had already received a cheque for and cashed so the accounts department didnt process a 
further cheque.
The handler apologised for the misunderstanding and explained he would arrange for a 
cheque to be processed. The cheque was issued on 4 June 2021.
In their final response issued on 22 June 2021, D&G accepted their error, apologised and 
awarded £10 for distress and inconvenience caused. They also added 8% to the refund for 
the time Mr N had been without it.
Mr N brought his concerns to this service on 21 July 2021. Our investigator felt D&G needed 
to do more to put things right. She awarded an additional £25 for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr N experienced. D&G accepted this, but Mr N doesnt feel this is enough to 
account for the impact on him so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr N was entitled to a refund and D&G made mistakes which caused 
the delay in Mr N receiving his second refund cheque. So I need to decide if theyve done 
enough to put things right.
 
I agree with the investigator, I dont think £10 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
their error caused. It took around eight weeks for Mr N to receive the refund which could 
have been avoided had the agents Mr N spoke to looked into his concerns thoroughly. Mr N 
also had to call them on more than one occasion to find out where the cheque was.
However, given that two policies were cancelled at the same time, I can understand how the 
error occurred. Having listened to the calls, I think the agents genuinely felt they had 
actioned things correctly to sort things out for Mr N. And the delay occurred due to genuine 
mistakes and a misunderstanding rather than someone just not actioning what they should 
have done.
Mr N feels an additional £25 isnt enough to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused and hes explained that it affected his health. I dont underestimate the impact it has 
had on him and I can understand how frustrating and stressful it was for him.
 
However, mistakes do happen and the ones made here were clearly in relation to a 
misunderstanding. Im pleased to see D&G added 8% to the refund to take account of the 
time Mr N was without it. I also note one of the agents asked Mr N if the delay was causing 
financial concern and Mr N said it wasnt. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr N but taking account of this and the sincerity of the 
apology, I feel an additional £25 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Domestic & General Insurance Plc should pay Mr N £25 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman