DRN-3406495
The complaint
Mr D complains about Qmetric Group Limited (QGL) who declined his claim under his home 
emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr D purchased a home emergency policy with QGL. His boiler developed a fault and he 
contacted QGL to make a claim. During the claims process, QGL declined Mr Ds claim as it 
said that he hadnt serviced the boiler within the past 15 months, which was excluded under 
the policy. 
Mr D complained to QGL as he said that he wasnt given the policy terms either via email or 
post. And the only policy terms that he could find (having searched on the internet) showed 
that he was covered. 
In its final response, QGL said that Mr D bought the policy via a price comparison website. 
And at the point of purchase, he was given the opportunity to read the policy documents 
before buying the policy. QGL also said that Mr D was sent a link with the confirmation email 
when he bought the policy and it said that it was satisfied that Mr D had access to the policy 
wording, as a password was set up on the account. 
Mr D was unhappy and referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld.  He said that he was satisfied 
that the policy included the exclusion that QGL relied upon when it declined his claim. So, 
there was nothing further he could reasonably ask it to do. 
QGL accepted the view, Mr D did not. He maintained that he hadnt been provided with any 
policy documents, either by email or post. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr D, 
but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr D purchased home insurance with an upgrade cover for home emergency in August 
2021. He made a claim for a fault on his boiler. QGL declined the claim on the basis that the 
boiler hadnt been serviced in the previous 15 months. It relied on the following policy 
exclusion: We dont cover; Any boiler or system that has not been serviced by an authorised 
tradesman in the last 15 months, in line with the manufactures recommendations.
Mr D complained because he said that he wasnt provided with any policy documents at the 
point of sale, either by email or post. And he wasnt aware of any details of the policy before 
purchase, if he had been, he wouldnt have purchased the policy. So, the main issues here, 
are whether Mr D was provided with any policy documents and whether the policy was mis-
sold to Mr D.
Mr D accepted that he made the purchase of the policy online, having been provided with 
the outline of cover of the policy via a price comparison website. QGL provided the copy of 
the screenshot that Mr D accepted he saw, prior to committing to buy the policy online. 
QGL said that attached to the outline and as seen in the screenshot, was a link provided to 
view the policy wording, demands, and needs document, as well as, the product summary. 
So, Im satisfied that at the point of sale Mr D had the opportunity to view his documents 
before purchasing. 
QGL also confirmed that it hadnt sent the documents by post as it was primarily an online 
provider. But, if a customer requested the documents to be sent by post, it would have done 
this. It did confirm that it had emailed the documents to Mr Ds online account and confirmed 
that he had been provided a link at the point of sale. 
Mr D confirmed that the email address that QGL sent the document to was his correct email 
address. In addition, I wouldve expected Mr D to contact QGL, if he had not received the 
documents and requested that those documents were sent to him via the post or re-sent via 
email. Which he didnt do.
QGL also confirmed that Mr Ds online account had been active since 2016, when he 
previously purchased another policy. It also confirmed that Mr D had access to his policy 
documents via his online account following the purchase of this policy. 
We are unable to tell a business how it operates as we are not the regulator. But, as Mr D 
accepted that he had the opportunity to view the documents before purchasing and 
confirmed that the email address that QGL sent the documents to was correct, Im satisfied 
that Mr D had received the policy documents. 
Mr D said that he wasnt informed about the exclusion clause that QGL relied upon to 
decline his claim. He also said that had he been informed about it he wouldnt have bought 
the policy. So, Ive had a look at what happened during the sales process. 
Both parties accepted that the sale was conducted via a price comparison website. 
Essentially Mr D wouldve had to input information when prompted and then received a 
quote for the policy. 
QGL said that at the point of sale, Mr D was given a copy of the policy documents at the 
quotation stage. In addition, from what I have read, the initial quotation indicates twice, for 
customers to please refer to your policy documents for more details. I think its fair to say 
that QGL didnt provide any advice regarding risk or full details of the policy. But it gave Mr D 
the opportunity to read the documents to see if the terms were sufficient for his needs. 
Also, Mr D accepts that he received a letter of confirmation of the policy that he had 
purchased. I have read the letter, which Mr D provided to me and on page one of two, it asks 
Mr D to check the policy documents carefully and the restrictions. 
At the top of page two, the letter again advises to visit the website for the full terms and 
conditions and gives the option to call and get a printed copy. Finally, at the bottom of the 
letter it again advises to call if there are any queries regarding the policy terms and 
conditions. On this basis I think that QGL provided a non-advised sale. This means it didnt advise or 
recommend that Mr D buy the policy. It simply provided information to him and left it to him 
to decide if the policy was suitable to meet his needs. However, QGL still needed to give 
enough, clear, fair, and not misleading information about the policy, so that Mr D could make 
an informed choice. 
Mr D by proceeding with the sale online, accepted that he chose a policy that suited his 
needs.  So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for QGL to have emphasized the terms 
of the policy. Consequently, we wouldnt reasonably expect QGL to explain everything the 
policy did and didnt cover. But it did need to highlight any significant, unusual, or onerous 
terms at the point of sale which mightve affected Mr D s decision, whether or not to buy the 
policy.  
I have considered whether the exclusion clause of not paying for any faults or failures to the 
boiler that hadnt been serviced within the last 15 months, would be deemed significant, 
unusual, or onerous. Based on what I know about home emergency policies, I dont think 
this is a particularly significant, unusual, or onerous term. So, I think this is another reason 
why QGL wouldnt have had to highlight it to Mr D. 
I have also reviewed the policy documents and as mentioned, it advised Mr D to read the 
terms and conditions. But it also gave Mr D a 14-day cooling off period. Mr D had the 
opportunity at this point to check whether the policy was suitable for him. I think the 
exclusion was set out in the policy and it was up to Mr D to check it was right for him. 
On page one of the insurance product information document it shows in bold writing the 
exclusion clause. Which is repeated in the terms and conditions. I understand that Mr D has 
now paid privately for the repair to the boiler.
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think the policy was mis-sold as Mr D had the 
opportunity to consider the terms, to see if they were sufficient for his needs. Also, I think 
that QGL were fair and reasonable in relying on the exclusion clause to decline the claim. 
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr D wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
QGL to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman