DRN-3105292
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited did not correctly apply its Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms to purchases he made in December 2020.  
What happened
Mr C has a Littlewoods account, operated by Shop Direct. He can use it to make online 
purchases on credit. The account gives customers a number of payment options, including 
BNPL. This option means that customers can delay payment for up to 52 weeks; if payment 
is made in full within the BNPL period, interest which has accrued during that period is 
refunded. Mr C has routinely made use of the BNPL option. 
In December 2020 Mr C made four purchases on two separate days. He returned two of the 
items and received refunds two or three weeks after the purchases. 
Mr C says that he selected the BNPL option for all the items, but that it was not applied. 
Instead, for the items he didnt return, he had to make monthly payments from the outset. In 
March 2021 he tried to move the two remaining items to BNPL terms but was told that would 
not be possible  he could only do so up to 75 days from the purchase date, but that time 
had passed by the time he tried to change the payment terms. 
Mr C believed he had selected BNPL terms but that they had not been applied correctly. 
Shop Direct said that its records indicated that Mr C had chosen to pay for the items over 
156 weeks; he had not selected the BNPL option. 
In addition, Mr C said that he requested a return for an item he had bought in November 
2019. Shop Direct said the item had been switched to BNPL terms in February 2020. In 
December 2020 a partial refund of interest was applied in respect of the payments Mr C had 
made, but he was required to make minimum monthly payments in respect of the balance of 
the purchase price. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought that the evidence had showed that Mr C had not selected the BNPL 
option for the items bought in December 2020. She said too that there was no evidence of 
any return having been requested for the item bought in November 2019. She did not think 
that Mr C had been treated unfairly. Mr C did not accept the investigators view and asked 
that an ombudsman review the complaint.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt that Mr C believes that he selected the BNPL option when he made the four 
purchases in December 2020. His account statements indicate that he routinely chose that 
option, including, for example, when he bought a further item at the end of the same month. 
The account statements also show, however, that the payment terms for each of the four 
items Mr C bought earlier in the month (including the two that were returned) were that 
payments would be made over 156 weeks. There was no reference against those items to 
BNPL  in contrast to other purchases. 
It follows therefore either that Mr C selected the BNPL option (as he says he did), but that it 
was not applied correctly, or that he is mistaken in thinking he did that. On balance, I think it 
more likely that he is mistaken and that he did not select it when he made the purchases in 
December 2020. As I say, I dont doubt that he intended to select the BNPL option or that he 
genuinely believes that he did, but I am not persuaded that the evidence shows that. 
I make similar observations in respect of the purchase made in November 2019 and which 
Mr C says he tried to return. There is no evidence to support his recollection of that, although 
there is evidence that the purchase was switched to BNPL terms soon after it was made. 
Mr C has said that, as a consequence, he is now having difficulty making payments. Shop 
Direct suspended interest and charges in an effort to help. The investigator said that this had 
not been part of the original complaint and that Mr C should raise it first with Shop Direct if 
he felt that it was not doing enough to help. I agree with that analysis and would add that I 
would expect Shop Direct and Mr C to work together to arrange a suitable plan for 
repayment. 
I note as well that Mr C has said there were a number of difficulties in contacting Shop Direct 
to address his concerns. I appreciate that this will have been frustrating but, in the 
circumstances, do not believe it would be appropriate to make any award in respect of it.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman