DRN-3414555
The complaint
Mr F complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
DC Financial Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to DCFL.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Fs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
Mr F was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to DCFL 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr F was 41 years old, married and with two very young dependent children. He was 
in good health and at that point he had accrued around over 23 years of pension 
benefits with the BSPS.
Mr F earned £33,000 per year and Mrs F was on maternity leave. They lived in a 
home valued at approximately £110,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £70,000 with 22 years to run. Mr and Mrs F had around £500 in savings and 
rental income from an investment property.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Fs BSPS was approximately 
£297,476 (this was later revised up slightly to around £307,176) and the normal 
retirement age (NRA) was 65. DCFL said Mr F wanted to retire early if possible, at 
the age of 57.
DCFL set out its advice in a suitability report on 29 August 2017. It advised him to transfer 
out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension plan. DCFL said this would allow 
Mr F to achieve his objectives. Mr F accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal 
pension. In 2021 Mr F complained to DCFL about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr F referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. In response, DCFL said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr F had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of DCFL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also comprehensively considered DCFLs responses to the complaint outlined in its 
letter of 11 March 2022. This letter addresses many points, all of which Ive thought carefully 
about. However, in this final decision Ive rightly concentrated on the issues I believe affect 
the outcome of the complaint. DCFL made many somewhat general points. For example, it 
sent me information implying many of its other advice cases had been reviewed by a third 
party and not all had been found to be unsuitable for clients. However here, Ive focussed on 
the issues pertinent to Mr Fs complaint and the circumstances of that time. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, DCFL should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Fs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
DCFL referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
However, before assessing the critical yields in Mr Fs case, I think its important to point out 
that DCFL could have taken time to compare the benefits of the BSPS2 with transferring out, 
rather than just using the current BSPS for comparisons. 
I say this because several weeks before this advice, which was dated 29 August 2017, 
BSPS members had been told that if the RAA was approved, they would have a choice  to 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or into the PPF with the old scheme. A newsletter had 
also been put on a microsite that had been set up to support BSPS members and more 
details of the BSPS2 were emerging at the time DCFL produced its suitability report. DCFL 
was advising many in a similar situation to Mr F, so I think its reasonable to conclude that it 
would have been monitoring events closely.
Its true the situation was dynamic in that changes were being proposed at that very point, 
but we know a great deal about the timeline because weve seen many similar complaints to 
this one. And as the existing scheme (BSPS) was clearly no longer an option, using the 
existing scheme rather than the new one, to make comparisons with, wasnt giving Mr F the 
best opportunity to make an informed decision about what to do. I think its also fair to say 
that despite some uncertainty at the time, the BSPS2 critical yields were likely to be between 
the BSPS and PPF yields, but most likely much closer to the existing scheme (BSPS).
I also think its important to point out that DCFL itself acknowledged, during its advice, that 
the critical yields required to match the benefits of Mr Fs existing scheme were high. It said 
in its suitability report, of 29 August 2017, the critical yield required is high and it would be 
very unlikely that an investment could provide a return to match the benefits you are giving 
up. It explained the critical yields required to match his existing benefits at the age of 65 
was 5.97%; and it was 7.87% compared against retirement at the age of 55.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was only 4.6% per year for 23 years to retirement (age 65), which is 
well below the critical yield figures Ive referred to above. For a retirement at 55, the discount 
rate was 4.1%. 
This infers that reaching the yields above would be unlikely. And there would be little point in 
transferring if Mr F was likely to receive lower pension benefits in the longer term.
However, Ive also considered some other issues. Ive also kept in mind, for instance, that 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time of the advice was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. DCFL said Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR) 
was low-medium, so I think a growth assumption below the regulators mid-rate was 
appropriate here, and probably quite close to the discount rate. So, this was below the 
critical yields Ive set out above.Of course, all this could be said to be of limited relevance since DCFL itself said at the time 
the critical yields were very unlikely to be achieved. And so, having said this back in 2017, it 
would be hard for DCFL to argue now that these types of growth figures were viewed as 
achievable at the time. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, DCFL also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. DCFL said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.03% per year if Mr F took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF and 3.71% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. 
But these yields related to the reduced benefits available with the PPF and DCFL itself says 
Mr F wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme. Its also important to remember here 
that the effect of charges and fees associated with a personal pension would have further 
reduced the likely growth.
As a further comparison, I can also see that DCFLs transfer analysis showed that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement 
at age 65, the funds required would be around £827,672  far in excess of Mr Fs current 
CETV. Even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits of the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was still in excess of 
Mr Fs CETV. In my view, these costs provide a powerful window into the real value Mr F 
would lose if he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
However, to be clear, DCFLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, DCFL said Mr F had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the 
other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite 
providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
DCFL recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Fs 
wider objectives. I have summarised the following themes as supporting the 
recommendation to transfer away and which were included in the suitability report:
Mention was made of Mr F retiring early if possible, at around 57. In a personal 
pension he could take more tax-free cash. He could then draw his desired retirement 
income more flexibly. 
Mr F could have the ability to take benefits in a form and at a time to suit is future 
plans thus increasing control over his finances.
His funds would be invested in a tax efficient environment. When benefits were taken 
options could include the ability to guarantee a secure stream of income.
There would be more flexible access to death benefits in a personal pension. 
The future of the BSPS was a concern and hed lost trust in the company. Mr F didnt 
want to enter the PPF.These points are broadly replicated in DCFLs response to the complaint of 11 March 2022 
which said the key benefits of the transfer were
He would be able to retire at 57 without suffering reductions
He would be able to take a flexible income
His death benefits would improve
The fund would not enter the PPF
So, it seems the supporting reasons that DCFL recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr F. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
DCFL mentioned that Mr F had said he wanted to retire early. I dont doubt that Mr F might 
have genuinely hoped to retire as early as 57, which is what was recorded on the fact-find. 
But Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at 
that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr F was only 
41 years old at the time and its simply not credible that he had any concrete plans for 
retirement at that point. 
DCFL also promoted to Mr F that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his case, 
also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. I accept DCFL mentioned this at the time, but it still used this rationale 
as supporting its recommendation to leave, in my view.
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Fs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by DCFL - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
DCFL should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of 
the BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still 
have been an option for Mr F, although this would have meant Mr Fs pension benefits would 
have been somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. I 
think its likely there were discussions about this, but I think this was discounted by DCFL 
and portrayed negatively. The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr F faced, including 
opting for the BSPS2. I cant see that Mr F required flexibility in retirement in the way DCFL 
suggested. DCFL said that Mr Fs estimated annual pension upon his NRA was £21,540 per 
year or £11,754 at the age of 55. As a DB pension this was guaranteed and index linked. 
However, as he was so young in pension terms, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Fs 
financial and income needs were likely to be in retirement. I certainly havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr F wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income 
needs by accessing his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. 
This is because, as well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr F had already 
joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making contributions to it for up to 23 years more, until he retired. Mr Fs contributions to this 
second pension were being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to 
say that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in 
this DC pension to complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr F could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing modest DB pension, 
but one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other 
hand, hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found 
he did require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what DCFL said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because he was still very young in pension terms, and so little was known about what his 
retirement would look like. DCFL also implied that Mr F would be able to have complete 
control over the pension if he transferred out. But Ive seen nothing which shows Mr F had 
either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. Mr Fs previous 
exposure to investing was not really known and the relevant section in the fact-find about 
his investment experience was left blank. However, I can safely assume he had no such 
investments at the time. 
So, I think Mr Fs circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. Ive 
also  noted Mr and Mrs F owned an investment property which generated £425 per month as 
of 2017.
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr F to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended. Using this, together with his other assets put him in a good 
retirement position, when it eventually came.
Death benefits 
DCFL implies that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr F died. But Im afraid I think this 
was no more than a stock objective with no real relevance to Mr Fs situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr F. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr F might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Fs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his forties and in good 
health, he and Mrs F had a young family. In my view, the likely death benefits attached to the 
new DB scheme were therefore highly relevant to Mr and Mrs F and they were also 
substantially underplayed. The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs F if Mr F 
predeceased her and I dont think DCFL made the value of this benefit clear enough. And as 
a father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr F. These 
were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. There may also not have 
been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Fs passing, particularly if he 
lived a long life. DCFL should therefore not have encouraged Mr F to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that DCFL took into account the fact that Mr F could have nominated 
Mrs F as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr F had 
already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Finally, at 41 years old I think life insurance would have been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr F really did want to leave a legacy for Mrs F and eventually their children. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr F. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Fs situation. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr F, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
DCFL said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
DCFL said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr F was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was DCFLs obligation to give Mr F an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were emerging and it seemed 
likely it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Fs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that DCFL 
should have reassured Mr F that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr F through the PPF would have still have probably 
provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was 
still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his actual ATR and the effect 
of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to DCFLs recommendation to Mr F to transfer out of a 
DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
DCFL made a number of further comments in the recommendation which I think need 
addressing. It said transferring would mean his funds were placed in a tax-free environment 
and he could draw a secure stream of income. Whilst true, these comments also need 
putting into context. Within a DB scheme Mr F already enjoyed these benefits and so 
implying they were something new wasnt fair. In fact, its fair to say the far more secure 
income was derived from a DB scheme, rather than a money market fund which is what was 
being recommended in his case.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr F. But DCFL 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr F might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr F needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr F was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think DCFL ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Fs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr F still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr F would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr F was married, and his wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr F chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think DCFL should have advised Mr F to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr F would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that DCFL disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr F, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr F to transfer out, and I think Mr F relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr F would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against DCFLs advice. I say this because Mr F was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if DCFL had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Fs concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if DCFL had explained Mr F was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I am upholding this complaint. I think DCFL should compensate Mr F 
for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for DCFLs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, DCFL should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes. Compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr F whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in 
line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for 
Mr F. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision. As Ive said above, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65
DCFL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Fs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr F within 90 days of the date DCFL receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes DCFL to pay Mr F.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect DCFL to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Ive considered the impact on Mr F of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our investigator 
recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr F by DCFL for what he referred to as 
the stress and anxiety caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr Cs 
age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
significant part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr C. I therefore agree that DCFL should also pay Mr C 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely 
had an impact on his retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I now direct DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
DC Financial Limited to pay Mr F any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require DC 
Financial Limited to pay Mr F any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
DC Financial Limited pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on DC Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman