DRN-4262006
The complaint
The trustees of a trust which Ill refer to as H, complain that Santander UK Plc allowed Hs 
beneficiary to gain access to and withdraw the funds that were deposited in its account (the 
Account)  
What happened
The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 9 June 2023, 
which forms part of this decision.
I provisionally concluded that the complaint should be upheld in part, and that Santander 
should refund to H, the £109,114.12 that had been withdrawn from the Account in August 
2021.
In addition, I also recommended that Santander pay £1,000 for the inconvenience caused to 
the trustees. However, on the question of the interest that Santander ought to pay on the 
withdrawn funds, I didnt think it would be fair to ask the bank to pay H 8% simple. So, I 
recommended the bank pays the rate that the Account would normally have attracted from 
the date the funds were withdrawn to the date of settlement. 
In summary I said:
I start by acknowledging this has been a very difficult situation for the trustees. Mr L has 
explained that because of what has happened, family relationships have become broken. I 
am sorry to hear that.
Santander made an error to which they admitted. It is Santanders position that Mr F should 
never have been allowed to withdraw the funds from the Account. Given that 
acknowledgement, the question for me is what compensation is appropriate in the 
circumstances of the case.
Santander have put forward the following by way of redress:
Refund the £109,114.12 that was withdrawn from the Account.
Pay interest on the amount at the rate earned on the Account from the date of 
withdrawal to the date of settlement.
Pay £1,000 for the inconvenience this matter has caused to the trustees.
Ive thought about whether Santanders offer is a fair and reasonable settlement of this 
complaint. I am minded to conclude that it is and, Ill explain why.
Our aim is not to fine or to punish financial businesses. Rather when we recommend that a 
financial business pays compensation, it is essentially as Mr L has identified, to put the 
complainant back in the position that otherwise theyd have been in if the error complained 
about hadnt occurred.
With that principle in mind as Ive noted above, the bank has offered to refund in full the 
amount Mr F withdrew. Indeed, this was what the trustees requested, and the bank has met 
that request. It means H has not suffered any financial loss.
I next consider the position of interest. Mr L believes the bank should also pay 8% on the 
amount.
Mr L is right that when it comes to the award of interest, we sometimes consider it is 
appropriate to award interest at 8% - the same as the courts.
In my view, its fair and reasonable to do so in circumstances where we find that arising from 
a financial business error, the complainant has been denied the ability to use the funds that 
are the subject matter of the complaint. Here, however, the position is different. Ill explain 
why.
The trustees have told us that the funds in the Account were never intended for immediate 
use. Rather, they were intended to remain invested in the Account earning interest until such 
time as they were to be used to settle the inheritance tax bill the trustees anticipated was 
likely to be due upon their death.
I have to be fair to the parties in the dispute thats been brought to this service. And it seems 
to me that the offer by Santander to pay the rate the Account was actually earning from the 
date of the withdrawal to the date of settlement is fair and reasonable.
Finally, I consider whether the £1,000 the investigator recommended, and the bank agreed 
to pay as compensation for inconvenience is reasonable. I believe it is.
Mr L has described the family tension that has resulted because of these events. And he has 
explained too the impact on the trustees health. I think that a significant award is therefore 
merited and, for the reasons the investigator has already given, Im at present satisfied the 
£1,000 he recommended is significant as well as being fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.
Mr L has told us the trustees had to take out an injunction against Mr F to prevent him from 
attending the farm. Hes told us the trustees had to pay legal fees of around £6,000.
Whilst Im sorry to hear that the relationship between the trustees and Mr F deteriorated to 
such levels, so that the action they took became necessary, Im not at present persuaded 
this was a foreseeable consequence of the banks error. So, Im not persuaded Santander 
should also cover the cost.
Santander accepted my provisional decision. But the trustees didnt. Both trustees, Mr L and 
Mrs G, have submitted separate and detailed further representations for me to consider. 
But I note that in large part, the trustees have each restated why they believe Santander 
acted wrongly in the circumstances of this case. In particular, as they see it, having regard to 
the banks obligations under the Trustee Act 1925. They believe that had the bank observed 
those obligations, it would have willingly compensated the trustees for their loss and the 
extra time and money they spent on this case. 
The trustees have also invited me to consider and comment on the nature of Santanders 
liability, especially, in circumstances where theres been a breach of the banks mandate 
which they say has occurred here. They believe that in such circumstances the law imposes 
a strict liability on the bank  meaning they should have been compensated straight away. 
I dont, however, intend to comment on those matters. And Im afraid, nor do I intend to 
respond to each and every other point the trustees have made in their individual submission. I mean no discourtesy towards the trustees, but my approach reflects the informal nature of 
our service. And in any case, and perhaps more importantly, there is no dispute that 
Santander acted wrongly in the circumstances of this case. In other words, they shouldnt 
have released the funds in the Account to Mr F. Strictly speaking therefore, it isnt necessary 
for me to determine the legal basis or otherwise of the banks liability. 
Against that background therefore, as I alluded to in my provisional decision, the issue for 
me to determine in light of Santanders acknowledgement is what would be fair and 
reasonable for the bank to do to put things right.  
In advance of my final decision, Santander have now refunded the £109,114.12 that was 
withdrawn from the Account. In doing so they complied with the wishes of the trustees that 
the funds should be returned without further delay. Santander have also complied with the 
trustees further request regarding the account into which the money should be paid. 
In light of that action, whats left for me to determine is whether, as the trustees believe the 
bank should also now pay 8% interest on the refunded amount as well as increasing the 
£1,000 it has agreed to pay for the distress and inconvenience caused to them. In that 
connection Ive considered very carefully the trustees representations as to why in relation 
to both these matters, the recommendation I set out in my provisional decision, dont go far 
enough. 
Interest 
Mr L said  in summary: 
Following their complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Santander 
and the trustees entered into a contract whereby the bank agreed it would reinstate 
the funds to the Account and pay 8% interest. As this rate is in line with the figure 
awarded not only by the court but also this service, it is fair. 
It is wrong to down grade the 8% interest rate on the basis, the Account was 
receiving a lower rate at the time. In doing so, weve made an assumption that the 
trustees would not have done better elsewhere. Whereas, the trustees had been 
taking steps, to reinvest money belonging to H as rates have increased  including 
for example, moving their ISA with Santander to another provider whod been paying 
a better rate. 
In separate representations Mrs G has made much the same point that by reducing the 
interest rate they are prepared to pay on the refunded amount, Santander are in breach of 
their contract with the trustees to pay interest at 8% on the withdrawn funds. 
Mrs G also said, in summary that:
Santanders contract with the trustees was to reimburse H with the £ 109,114.12 that 
was withdrawn from the Account and pay the lost interest at 8% from the agreed 
date of 28 September 2021. This was not considered in the ombudsman provisional 
decision. It is wrong therefore, for the ombudsman to interfere with a contract that 
existed between the parties. Especially because, a breach of such contract would 
result in a possible claim for damages against the bank which the ombudsman has 
no power to interfere with. 
In any case if at the outset Santander had recovered the money from Mr F using the 
relevant legislation, the bank would not have lost anything, and furthermore, would 
not now be required to pay interest at 8% for almost two years. Also, the trustees would not have lost anything because theyd have been able to reinvest the funds in 
the Account at a better rate, or possibly move Hs account to another Bank.
distress and inconvenience 
In summary, the trustees have said: 
The £1,000 thats been recommended doesnt go far enough, not least because, on a 
50:50 split, in Mrs Gs case, for example, that equates to a share of £500 for 422 
days of inconvenience. In other words, further calculated this amounts to: £ 1.25 per 
day for grief pain and suffering. Thats in contrast to the circumstances in which 
previously the trustees were paid £200 by way of an apology for 14 days of delay on 
the banks part.
Santanders refusal to comply with relevant legislation and returned the withdrawn 
money to the trustees meant they had to write hundreds of letters to our service as 
well as undertaking many hours of legal research.
The trustees should both be entitled to litigants in person costs for all their time 
writing letters and researching the law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Interest 
Santander wrote to our service in April 2023 to let us know they would like to settle this case 
by offering to reimburse in full the funds that had been withdrawn from the Account. There 
was no suggestion Santander had already settled directly with the trustees, supported by a 
binding contract. 
Indeed, Mr Ls own testimony would seem to support that conclusion. He told us that the 
Santanders employee with whom hed been in contact did not want to deal with the trustees 
directly regarding the proposed settlement. He said he was told in conversations and letters 
that the matter is with our service to decide and give instructions to the bank.  
In any event, on 2 May 2023, I wrote to Mr L confirming the banks offer of settlement  
which initially was only to refund the amount that had been withdrawn from the Account. 
But in a subsequent e-mail, Santander addressed the question of the 8% interest saying:
In addition to reimbursing the funds totalling £109,114.12, and 8% from the time that the 
complaint was declined, we would like to pay the £1000 that was previously agreed.
As Mr L confirmed in his testimony, I made the trustees aware of this clarification by the 
bank and asked whether the trustees were willing to accept the offer. 
Mr L responded to say, among other things, that although Santander were offering to pay the 
trustees lost interest and compensation from the date they declined the complaint, which 
was 28 September 2021, nonetheless, in law the bank should structure the payment to the 
date the money was lost, which he identified as 13 August 2021. I took the view that the banks offer to pay 8% interest needed to be clarified. In particular, 
because Santander proposed paying this from the date, theyd declined the complaint. 
Whereas, typically, what Id have expected to see in appropriate circumstances, was the 
date a complainant is denied use of the funds that are the subject matter of the complaint. 
So, in that connection I wrote to the bank.  To be clear I was making no finding on the merits 
of the trustees complaint, merely seeking to clarify the terms on which the bank was making 
its offer. In the event the bank decided it was no longer prepared to pay the 8%. 
It is not my role to assess whether there was a contract between the bank and the trustees. 
And furthermore, I have no powers to consider a complaint about the way Santander chose 
to respond to the trustees complaint or to make an offer to settle it. 
My role is to reach an outcome that I believe is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint. What became clear was that Santander was no longer willing to pay the 8% 
they initially said they would. So, I considered whether it would be fair for me to require them 
to do so. 
For the reasons Ive given I do not think it would be fair. I do, however, believe the 
alternative offer is fair. And I say that because the trustees explained the purpose to which 
the funds in the Account were to be used. And they were to remain in the Account until such 
time as they were needed for that purpose. 
Moreover, when they realised the funds had been withdrawn, to put things right, they 
required the bank to return the funds to the Account. I see no evidence to persuade me the 
trustees had reinvestment plans for the funds in the Account, let alone details of the rates 
they would likely receive by doing so. So, in my opinion the banks offer to pay interest at the 
rate that would have been payable had the money stayed in the original account is fair and 
reasonable.  
 
The trustees rightly point out, 8% is the rate of interest awarded by the court and indeed 
sometimes by this service. Importantly, however, this does depend on the circumstances of 
the case, and is typically appropriate where a complainant has been denied the use of the 
funds because of an error by a financial business. Where that occurs, we might consider it 
fair to award the same 8% rate. 
We explain on our website, however, that if we think a different rate should be applied in light 
of the circumstances of the particular case we will do so. That is what Ive done here. 
I am required to reach my decision in light of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the case. And in the circumstances of this case, I have not been persuaded that requiring 
the bank to pay the trustees a rate of 8% on the withdrawn funds is fair and reasonable 
when the rate of interest the Account attracted was significantly less. So, I do not find that 
Santander should pay the trustees 8% that they consider appropriate. 
distress and inconvenience 
When it comes to awards for distress and inconvenience, whilst it is true that ultimately it is a 
personal judgement, nonetheless, I base my opinion on what I believe to be fair, having 
regard to the impact of the error complained about on the complainants. I do not doubt that on learning the funds had been withdrawn from the Account by Mr F this 
did cause distress to the trustees. Their attempts to put things right caused them 
inconvenience also. 
The trustees have explained that theyve written extensively to the bank and to this service 
about their complaint. That is understandable since this is a significant matter for them. And 
especially, as theyve told us, Mrs G carried out extensive legal research regarding the 
banks liability. Based therefore, on their understanding of the banks legal obligations 
towards them, I can see why they were keen to put their case for return of the withdrawn 
funds comprehensively and repeatedly to the bank and this service. But we do not usually 
make awards for a complainants time in bringing a complaint to our service.
 
Ive based my award on the individual circumstances of this case rather than by reference to 
any awards Santander may have agreed to before.  
In this case, and without wishing to downplay the background circumstances, Ive 
nonetheless borne in mind that the funds that were withdrawn were set aside for future use  
that is to settle inheritance tax on the death of the trustees. So, the trustees were not 
inconvenienced in the sense the funds were needed immediately but they had no access to 
them. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that an award of £1,000 
for distress and inconvenience represents a significant but also a fair and reasonable award 
in the circumstances of this case.  
Costs 
I turn finally to the question of costs.  Were not a court as the trustees are aware. Therefore, 
we do not make awards for costs in the way the courts do whether by reference to whats 
appropriate for litigants in person or otherwise. The trustees believed they were entitled to 
recover legal costs for obtaining an injunction against Mr F, costing to date over £5,000, 
although I note they did indicate they were willing to accept £32,000 to settle this part of their 
claim. I am not, however, persuaded Santander should be held responsible for those costs 
because I am not satisfied they were reasonably foreseeable by the bank as a consequence 
of its error  
 
Putting things right
Having now refunded, the £109,114.12 the bank allowed Mr F to withdraw from the Account, 
Santander should in addition pay interest on the refunded amount with the aim of putting the 
trustees in the position they would have been in if Santander had not allowed Mr F to 
withdraw the money. Santander should also pay £1,000 for distress and inconvenience 
caused to the trustees.     
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part. Having already reimbursed the 
£109,114.12 that was withdrawn from the Account, in addition and in full and final settlement 
I recommend that Santander UK Plc pays the trustees:
Interest on the £109,114.12 at the rate the Account would normally have received 
from the date this sum was withdrawn to the date the funds were returned to H; and
 
£1,000 to the trustees for distress and inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman