DRN-3109091
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited has refused to provide them with a 
signed copy of a loan agreement and refused to accept a settlement by credit card.
What happened
Mr D says he asked Shawbrook for a loan settlement figure which he received. He says he 
tried to pay the outstanding balance with his credit card but Shawbrook refused to accept 
that payment method. Mr D says he then asked for a copy of the signed agreement between 
them but was sent an unsigned copy which Mr D says is against the law. He says as a result 
of this he has suspended his direct debit payment to Shawbrook, and it has recorded 
adverse information on his credit file. Mr D says he has suffered a financial loss as a result 
of not being able to repay the balance as he had an interest free offer on his credit card 
account. He would like Shawbrook to either agree to allow him to repay the loan balance as 
it was when he asked for the settlement figure or refund his money if there wasnt a valid 
contract.
Shawbrook says there was an agreement and provided a copy of it to Mr D. It says it makes 
clear in the agreement terms and conditions that it will tell a customer how a repayment can 
be made in these circumstances. And says it doesnt accept repayment by a credit card and 
that can have cost implications for a customer. Shawbrook says Mr D agreed to repay the 
loan and as payments have been stopped is entitled to report that information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought Shawbrook had acted in line with agreed terms and conditions by telling 
Mr D how the loan could be repaid. And thought it was entitled to report the missed 
payments to the CRAs.
Mr and Mrs D dont accept that view and in summary says it should have been made clear 
repayment by a credit card account wasnt allowed and that there isnt a valid contract in any 
event.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs D must have entered into a loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
And that Mr and Mrs D received the loan and payments were made as agreed. I have looked 
carefully at the loan terms and conditions which I think Mr and Mrs D would have agreed to 
which clearly say that Shawbrook will tell them how repayments can be made in these 
circumstances. So, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly or made a mistake by telling Mr D 
that it wouldnt accept a loan settlement repayment via a credit card account. Im satisfied 
that its up to Shawbrook to decide in which form a payment is made when exercising its 
commercial judgement and is not something I can fairly interfere in. I make clear to Mr D that 
it is common practice for businesses not to accept credit card payments in certain 
circumstances such as for the settlement of loan agreements and where such payments are 
allowed, they often result in a fee being charged.
I appreciate Mr D asked for a signed copy of the agreement. I can see Shawbrook has 
provided a copy. I have made clear that Im satisfied there was an agreement between the 
parties as Shawbrook has lent money which Mr and Mrs D are repaying. If Mr D is 
questioning the enforceability of the agreement in the absence of a signed loan agreement, 
then that would be for a court to determine. But no doubt Mr D appreciates that a contract 
can be agreed in a number of ways and that there are likely to be implications for his credit 
file if he refused to make the agreed repayments.
I find that Shawbrook is obliged to report an accurate position of its customers accounts to 
the CRAs. So, I dont think it has made a mistake by reporting Mr and Mrs Ds missed 
payments.
I appreciate Mr D would also like to see a signed copy of the agreement to see if the terms 
and conditions are unambiguous. I dont know why Mr D suggests that and think the terms 
and conditions will be exactly the same on a signed and unsigned copy. And that it would be 
for a court to decide if Shawbrooks actions in not providing a signed agreement is against 
the law.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman