DRN-3684989
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) following a claim he made for fire damage.
What happened
Mr Gs home was damaged in a fire in December 2020. He made a claim to Admiral and it 
started reinstatement work after some initial delays. Mr G complained to Admiral about the 
quality of the repairs that were being carried out and the overall handling of the claim. 
Admiral responded to Mr Gs concerns in a final response letter dated 14 June 2021, saying 
it didnt consider there had been any errors made in the handling of the claim. Mr G 
remained unhappy and Admiral reviewed the complaint. It then offered Mr G £250, which 
Mr G didnt accept. 
Mr G then referred the complaint to us and Admiral increased its offer of compensation, 
which Mr G also declined. Our investigator considered that complaint and thought Admiral 
should further increase the compensation payable to £750, because it hadnt treated Mr G 
fairly.
The issues Mr G experienced up to the date of that final response letter have now been 
considered by another ombudsman at this service. That ombudsman determined that 
Admiral hadnt treated Mr G fairly. And in a final decision dated 9 February 2022, the 
ombudsman agreed that £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Admiral had 
caused to Mr G up to 14 June 2021, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Following the ombudsmans final decision, Mr G has referred this new complaint to our 
service  about events that took place after 14 June 2021 which were not considered in the 
previous ombudsmans final decision. Admiral has responded and upheld the complaint in 
part, offering Mr G £400 in compensation for its failings.
The matters Mr G raised, which Ive considered in this decision, include, but are not limited 
to:
- The time taken to address ongoing issues following the previous complaint.
- The surveyor signing off works that were incomplete and materials not being 
delivered.
- The amount of time Mr G spent trying to contact Admiral to progress matters and the 
amount of time he had to take off work to meet people at the property.
- The amount of time Mr G spent living elsewhere and the distress and inconvenience 
this caused.
Our investigator considered the further complaint about matters which arose since 14 June 
2021 and recommended that Admiral pay a further £200 compensation, in addition to the 
£400 it had offered on 11 January 2022.
Mr G considered our investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final review. So the matter has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I should clarify that in this decision Im considering only those events which were complained 
about between 14 June 2021 and 11 January 2022, when Admiral issued its final response. 
This is because any matters complained about, or events that have taken place, since 11 
January 2022 should be put to Admiral in the first instance for a response, before this 
service can investigate or comment on them.
Looking at what happened between June 2021 and January 2022 I can see that Mr G didnt 
receive the level of service he wouldve expected, and that this has caused him distress and 
inconvenience, for which he should be further compensated. 
I agree that delays were caused in obtaining the tender for the works that needed to be 
carried out. Admiral has apologised for this. Its also apologised for the error regarding 
issuing of the certificates without any deduction for the retention amount and for the standard 
of work being generally poor. It has said it has provided feedback to the supplier about this. 
And it has offered £400 in compensation for these parts of the complaint.
However, I dont think Admiral has fairly addressed the issue of Mr G being told he was the 
employer of the contractor. Both Mr G and this service have asked Admiral for clarification 
on this point, as it has caused Mr G confusion and stress. But Admiral has not responded, 
and I also dont consider its response fair or reasonable regarding the signing off of 
incomplete works and materials not being delivered. It has simply said this cannot be proven 
due to the length of time that has passed, without considering Mr Gs testimony carefully. So 
I think its fair that Admiral pay an additional £200 compensation for these issues. 
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must now:
Pay Mr G a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced as a result of poor service received from 14 June 2021 until the date of its final 
response letter dated 11 January 2022.
This is in addition to the £400 it offered in its final response letter dated 11 January 2022, 
bringing the total amount of compensation payable in this complaint to £600.
If Mr G makes a further complaint about issues which have arisen since 11 January 2022 
then these must be addressed promptly by Admiral in a new final response, after which Mr G 
may be eligible to bring a further complaint to this service, subject to the usual time limits.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right 
as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman