The complaint
Mr F complains that FirstRand Bank Limited refused to compensate him for faults with his 
vehicle.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr F acquired a second hand vehicle costing £4,350, funded by a deposit of £ 
655 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement. It was some 10 years old and the 
documentation shows it had done 111,456 miles. Mr F has supplied a copy of the MOT 
certificate dated the day before purchase which shows the mileage as 116,762. Within a 
couple of weeks he encountered problems and took it back to the dealer. It effected repairs 
at no charge to Mr F, but the vehicle continued to cut out.
On 17 June he complained to FirstRand and it said he had given up his right to reject as he 
had authorised repairs and taken the use of a courtesy vehicle. It suggested he obtain a 
diagnostic and this showed a significant number of faults. He took it to another garage and it 
identified a fault with the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) and it repaired the vehicle at a cost 
of £220.
FirstRand arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by an independent inspector. He 
concluded that there were quite a few faults but that these were down to wear and tear due 
to the age and mileage. FirstRand rejected Mr Fs complaint so he brought the matter to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
She noted that Mr F had decided that as the vehicle was now working he no longer wished 
to reject it. He was simply seeking some compensation. She said Mr F had been making 
payments from July 2019, after the dealer attempted repairs, but he couldnt use it as it was 
still faulty. He had it repaired independently in November 2019. 
He had to change his insurance to cover another car at additional cost and our investigator 
considered that due to the vehicle not being usable for a period of time FirstRand should 
refund 4 monthly payments, cover the repair cost and pay compensation of £150.
FirstRand didnt agree and said the inspector had reached a different conclusion and he was 
better placed than our investigator to decide whether the faults had been present at the point 
of sale. It said the EGR issues hadnt been addressed by the inspector as they hadnt been 
raised and a partially blocked DPF filter had been the most likely cause of the problems. It 
also said that Mr F had been able to do some 7,000 miles in three months which indicated 
the vehicle was acceptable.
The investigator pointed out the error with the mileage which meant that Mr F had only been 
able to manage 1,745 miles. She also said that she thought it reasonable that Mr F had the 
vehicle repaired by another garage. The dealer had numerous opportunities to make an 
effective repair and it failed to do so. FirstRand asked the inspector if the reduced mileage 
DRN-1837108would cause him to change his mind, but he thought the problem lay with the DPF. 
FirstRand said he would have been aware of the issue the vehicle had suffered from. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I consider this to be a finely balanced decision and it is unusual to reach a different 
conclusion that put forward by an independent inspector, but I have decided this complaint 
should be upheld. I will explain why.
It is clear the vehicle is elderly and has covered over 100,000 miles so it is to be expected 
that there would be a fair degree of wear and tear. However, it developed serious faults 
within a couple of weeks of it being sold. That of itself would point to it being faulty at the 
point of sale.
The dealer made repairs, but these werent effective. The law allows the merchant to one 
opportunity to make a repair and if that fails it is open to the consumer to reject the goods. 
That presumes they were faulty at the point of sale.
This leads us on to the independent report. The inspector considers the issue to be with the 
DPF and this may be faulty, but at the time of his inspection the EGR had been repaired and 
this appears to have resolved the problems Mr F was complaining about. FirstRand said that 
the inspector would have been aware of the history of the vehicle and at the same time said 
it hadnt seen the invoice for the effective repair. I am not so sure that the inspector was fully 
aware of the repair.
Putting things right
In summary, I am content that the key fault lay with the EGR and on the balance of 
probability it would have been faulty at the point of sale. Mr F has incurred additional expenditure in insuring another vehicle while his wasnt available and has had to deal with 
the inconvenience of a faulty vehicle. For that he is entitled to some compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FirstRand Bank Limited to:
 reimburse £220 Mr F incurred to repair the van
 reimburse four months monthly payment
 pay £150 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman