DRN-3165095
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 with a 
loan. Mrs S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs S applied for a loan of £3,500 and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same 
time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. 
It cost £660 and this amount was also lent to Mrs S by Nationwide. Both the loan and PPI 
part of the loan ran over a period of 60 months (5 years) and were subject to interest being 
added. 
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Weve 
set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and published some 
example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may apply 
to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I havent set out that detailed information here but Ive taken into 
account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ss complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
I think Nationwide made it clear enough that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she herself chose to take it out. I say this because she says she took the loan out over the 
phone. From what we know about these types of sale, the loan and PPI would most likely 
have been discussed during the call with the relevant documents then drawn up and sent out 
to Mrs S to check and sign. 
Nationwide sent me Mrs Ss loan agreement. It reflects what Ive described above and the 
PPI comes under a heading which says, OPTIONAL CREDIT INSURANCE. The 
agreement also says she is being covered for disability, unemployment and life protection, 
and I note Mrs S signed and returned the form. So I think this demonstrates she gave her 
consent to buying the PPI policy.
Nationwide says this wasnt an advised sale, so its responsibility was limited to providing 
enough information to enable Mrs S to make her own decision about what she wanted to do. 
I obviously cant say that Mrs S was told everything she should have been and it may be that 
Nationwide ought to have done a better job at explaining certain things. 
However, the cost of the PPI was set out on her form. It included the actual PPI cost, the 
cost with all the interest added on and the sum of these two amounts. It also showed Mrs S 
a breakdown of the loan amount and the total sum she would end up paying each month for 
the loan and PPI. 
I also think Mrs S was eligible for the cover and I dont think shed have been caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. She told us she had some 
sickness protection already through her job, implying she didnt need any PPI. I can fully 
understand why shes told us this but Im afraid, as Ive said, the decision about PPI was 
hers to make, and in any event it doesnt necessarily mean she didnt have a use for the 
policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of her being unable to work 
through illness or losing her job completely and this would have been in addition to any other 
means she already had in place.
Overall, I think she had enough information on which to make an informed decision and I 
think the PPI was of use.
Ive also considered what Mrs Ss representative said about her having an existing illness 
which might have been excluded from claiming for, under the policy rules. However, I note 
this was a benign cyst that was removed in 1993 and I have nothing which shows this would 
still have been an issue at the point of sale, some five years later. Whilst I accept it would 
have been a matter of concern in 1993, I dont think that by the time of the sale Mrs S would 
have changed what she did i.e. to go on to buy the policy. The loan and the PPI policy also 
both ran for the same term lengths and if she cashed it in early, Mrs S would have received 
a proportionate sum back in comparison with how long into the loan period she was at that 
particular time. I see this did happen, in 2001.
Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I 
have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ss particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint or make any award in her favour. Nationwide Building 
Society doesnt need to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman