DRN-2798527
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) gave him unsuitable investment advice. 
He says the recommendation to invest £50,000 left him with too little liquid savings for him to 
weather the storm, was an excessive amount for a first-time investor and didnt reflect his 
attitude to risk. 
What happened
Mr M is represented by a third party but for ease, Ill refer to Mr M in this decision.
Mr M held a total of £56,600 in savings. He was aged 56 years, he told us he was self-
employed and the savings he had were for his retirement. He says he was pestered by 
Santander to have a meeting about his savings, which took place in 2006. 
At the meeting Santander advised Mr M to invest £50,000, split equally between two funds 
within an investment bond  a distribution growth fund and a property fund. His timeframe for 
investing was five years plus. 
Mr M became concerned about the losses the investments were sustaining and surrendered 
both funds in October 2008. He suffered a loss of £9,960.03. He didnt complain initially as 
he thought the loss was just bad luck and bad timing. 
But as a result of reading an on-line article about the mis-sale of investments, Mr M later 
complained to Santander. He said, in summary:
The amount he was advised to invest exceeded his capacity to bear a loss as 
evidenced by his earlier than expected withdrawal. He was left with too little in 
available savings to weather any storms.
Mr M was entirely new to investing, he trusted the financial adviser and accepted him 
as the expert.
The advice to invest such a high proportion of his retirement savings was highly 
excessive for a first-time investor with a cautious risk profile. At the time his savings 
were on deposit earning 4% without any risk. The high proportion of savings invested 
altered his attitude to risk more in-line with a high-risk investor rather than Mr Ms 
cautious attitude to risk. 
The agent (the financial adviser) received direct commission of £3,575.06 which may 
have been why the two investments had been recommended and not because they 
were in the best interests of Mr M. He was also charged a monthly fee of around 
£21.00 and Mr M couldnt see how the investments were considered to be a better 
option for him than to continue to keep his savings in his deposit account. 
The advice breached the FCAs principles  Principle 9: A firm must take reasonable 
care to ensure the suitability of advice and discretionary decisions for any customer 
who is entitled to rely upon its judgement. And Principle 6: A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
Santander initially thought the complaint was time-barred as it was six years after the event 
Mr M was complaining about  the investment advice  and more than three years after he 
should have reasonably been aware he had cause for complaint  when he suffered the loss 
upon the surrender of the investments. It did later agree this service could assess the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. It said it had no control over the global 
financial crisis and didnt control market conditions. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld because:
There wasnt any indication as to how Mr Ms medium risk category was calculated.
Based on Mr Ms lack of investment experience the adviser should have done more 
to explain the risk of losing too much and at which point it would have been better to 
understand Mr Ms capacity for loss. 
The recommendation to invest £50,000 was unsuitable advice. The distribution fund 
which was described in the Investment Bond Funds Directory as cautious was 
made up of 55% equities, 2% cash, 30% fixed interest securities and 13% UK 
property. The property fund was described as being of moderate risk with an asset 
allocation of 100% UK commercial and industrial property. So, in total the 
investigator said that 63% of Mr Ms investment was invested within a single sector 
within a single asset class  commercial property in the UK. This suggested 
diversification wasnt explained to Mr M and it was unlikely that Mr M would have 
taken that risk if it had been properly explained to him. 
Santander hadnt been able to demonstrate why Mr M was assessed as being a 
medium risk investor. Santander failed to recommend an allocation of funds that 
were suitable for Mr Ms experience and attitude to risk. Investing £50,000 of the 
£56,600 Mr M had available increased the amount he stood to lose and especially 
when the majority of it was within a single sector of the property market. 
To compensate Mr M, the investigator said it should compare the performance of    
Mr Ms investment with the benchmark of half the investment in the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index and the other half with the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds from the date of investment to the date of surrender plus additional 
interest of 8% simple per year. 
In conclusion, the investigator said Mr M wanted capital growth with a small risk to 
his capital which would be reflected by the average rate for the fixed bonds. And the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index as being a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Mr Ms risk 
profile was in between, hence the 50/50 combination. 
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
The medium attitude to risk would have been agreed through discussion between   
Mr M and the adviser. It didnt have to demonstrate how the attitude to risk was 
arrived at.
Mr M had a high net disposable income each month which meant he had the 
capacity to make up any investment losses, again suggesting a medium attitude to risk was suitable. 
50% of the investment was within a cautious fund so it erred on the side of lower risk 
than agreed with Mr M. 
It said it wasnt clear why the investigator said the distribution growth fund was 
unsuitable. The focus of the investigator seemed to be on the property content.
Mr M was young enough to invest for five plus years and had very little debt. He 
wanted potential growth which is what the adviser recommended. 
It wasnt certain the investigators assumption about the property content of the funds 
was correct  13% of the distribution growth fund was in UK commercial property and 
the property fund invested in UK commercial and industrial property as well as other 
property vehicles including shops, leisure, retail warehouse, office, collective 
investments and cash. 
The investigator had assumed Mr M was a cautious investor without any evidence 
and which conflicted with what was recorded in the fact find. It was unclear how the 
investigator judged Mr Ms level of experience.
Santander does not control market conditions and Mr M was aware his funds could 
go down as well as up.
In response, the investigator said: 
The suitability documentation should give an idea of how the investment was suitable 
for Mr Ms circumstances as well as his attitude to risk, investment experience and 
capacity for risk. 
He referred to the FCA Handbook principle 9. He wanted to know how Mr Ms 
medium risk was calculated  he was a first-time investor; the fact find was limited 
and didnt highlight any investment experience. 
While Mr M might not have had much debt, the information in the fact find wasnt 
enough to say the advice was suitable. 
Mr M wanted capital growth and his choices would have been determined by the 
advice he received so the investigators focus was on the suitability of the overall 
advice and he wasnt persuaded Mr M wanted to take as much risk as Santander 
concluded. 
Mr M would have been 61 years of age at the end of the five-year term and he said 
he wanted the funds for his retirement. Mr M would have been more suited to having 
some of his capital at risk and not the majority of it. 
He outlined the investment bonds brochures description of cautious and medium 
risk funds. He reiterated his comments about the risk rating of the funds and the 
property content overexposing Mr Ms investment to a single sector within an asset 
class and that the other equity exposure in the distribution growth fund would have 
further increased the risk. 
He maintained his opinion that the advice to place most of Mr Ms funds into a 
product that didnt match his circumstances with limited diversification was unsuitable 
and it should be fully upheld. 
Santander responded:
It still believed it correctly advised Mr M with regards to which funds to invest in.It did agree that 88% of Mr Ms total savings was probably too high and that 44% 
would have been more appropriate. It offered to redress half of the total investment 
made based on the 100% fixed rate bond averages with no stock market content, 
taking into account the loss Mr M suffered plus the interest he would have got from a 
fixed rate bond from 2006 to 2008 plus interest at 8%.
Our investigator put this offer to Mr M. But he rejected the offer and thought that the redress 
recommended by the investigator was more appropriate.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms circumstances
Due to the passage of time, Santander has very little information in relation to the sale of   
Mr Ms investment. But it has been able to provide a copy of the fact find from the time of 
the sale. 
The fact find detailed that Mr M was in full-time employment, he didnt have or wasnt able to 
join a company pension and didnt have a personal pension (it is recorded he wasnt looking 
to discuss pension details). His annual income was £28,000 and his monthly income surplus 
was £1,100. He had a loan of £3,000 and didnt expect any changes to his expenditure.     
Mr M didnt have a mortgage and was living with the property owner. At the time Mr M didnt 
have any investments. He had two current accounts totalling £2,600 and an instant access 
account with £54,000 so, a total of £56,600. The financial adviser recorded his existing 
savings as being very low risk. 
Mr Ms attitude to risk
Mr Ms investment strategy and investment objective were recorded in the fact find as being 
for growth with a greater potential than deposits. No specific growth was stated. His risk 
rating was recorded as medium and that Mr M was looking to invest 50k with 25k split over 
several asset classes and £25k into commercial property. The resulting investment bond 
application form shows that Mr M was to invest £50,000 split equally between a distribution 
growth fund and a property fund. 
Santander hasnt been able to show us how it came to the conclusion that Mr M was a 
medium risk investor. It said it would have been agreed through discussion between Mr M 
and the adviser. But I would expect to see some sort of evidence that the risk of investing 
was explained to Mr M, taking into account his ability to understand investment risk and 
clarification of his experience or knowledge to understand the risk involved. 
Clearly Mr M was seeking advice because he didnt have the knowledge or experience to 
make those investment decisions unaided. Santander said it didnt have to demonstrate how 
the attitude to risk was arrived at. But I disagree. Santander needed to be able to 
demonstrate that it gave suitable advice taking into account Mr Ms circumstances, 
understanding and knowledge after ascertaining his attitude to risk. And I think the 
information recorded in the fact find doesnt constitute enough to show that his investment 
objectives and attitude to risk were established or that it was discussed whether Mr M had 
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved. Mr M didnt have any investment experience and from what he has told us the savings he 
had were intended for his retirement. The fact find doesnt record this  whether Santander 
failed to ask this question or Mr M didnt wish to disclose this  and I accept the fact find 
records that the meeting wasnt to discuss his pension arrangements. But it is recorded that 
Mr M didnt have a company pension (and wasnt eligible to join one) or a personal pension. 
Mr M did have a monthly surplus of £1,100 and while Mr M said he wasnt expecting any 
change in his circumstances, Mr M told us he was self-employed (which I cant see recorded 
on the fact find) which can be an indicator of the potential for a less stable or guaranteed 
income in future. 
And bearing in mind Mr Ms age plus the fact theres no record he owned a property 
suggests to me that the savings were extremely important for Mr Ms longer-term financial 
security. Overall, I dont think it was clear what additional funds hed have in the longer term. 
So, while Mr M may have had the ability to replace some losses at the time with his 
disposable income, overall, I dont think that he was in a financial position to take excessive 
risk with his savings. And I think this type of information about Mr Ms circumstances would 
have been important to establish to ensure suitable advice was given.  
Without any investment experience Mr M would have been totally reliant upon the advice 
given to him. Its recorded that his investment objective was for growth and that he wanted a 
greater potential than deposits. It might have been the case that Mr M did want to explore 
the opportunity to make his money grow more than it had done while on it was on deposit. 
But I havent seen sufficient documentary evidence about how the level of risk Santander 
concluded Mr M was willing to take was arrived at. And Ive borne in mind what hed 
previously done with his money  by putting it in a risk-free environment in savings account. 
Taking everything else into consideration Im persuaded it was more likely that Mr M was 
willing to take some risk with his money but not too much and, as Ill explain, not to the 
extent that he was advised bearing in mind what I think his capacity for risk was and the 
limited evidence about how the level of risk he was prepared to take was arrived at.  
The advice 
Santander has said it erred on the side of caution by recommending a cautious fund  the 
distribution growth fund as well as the property fund. 
Ive seen a copy of Santanders Investment Bond Funds Directory. This categorises the 
distribution growth fund as being cautious and the property fund as being a moderate level 
of risk. The distribution fund was invested 55% equities, 30% fixed interest securities, 13% 
UK Commercial Property and 2% in cash. The property fund was invested 24% office, 19% 
industrial, 18% retail warehouse, 15% shops, 15% collective investments and 5% cash. The 
directory explains that the fund will also invest in indirect property vehicles which I 
understand to be the collective investments. 
So, in total, well over half of Mr Ms investment was within one single sector and in my 
opinion such a lack of diversification and subsequent overexposure increased the risk. Even 
before the stock market downfall in 2008 there was always a risk inherent in investing in 
property  properties can only be sold as a whole, selling of properties is conditional on 
many variables such as age, condition and location. And property is not a liquid asset, the 
sales of which can take time to realise. And this risk was further increased by the 55% 
exposure to equities in the distribution fund. So overall, a total of 81.5% of Mr Ms invested 
funds were within one single sector  property  and a medium risk asset class  the equities. I think this exposed Mr M to more risk than he was willing to or had the capacity to 
take. 
I say this because by Santander advising Mr M to invest into the investment bond, and 
underlying funds, this was an increase in the level of risk compared to his previous 
knowledge of investment  holding his funds on deposit  recorded as being very low risk 
by Santander. I havent seen evidence to support why Mr M was willing to take a significant 
step up in terms of risk compared to his previous experience of remaining in cash. If this had 
been the case, I would have expected this to have been established by a more fully detailed 
fact find. 
And while there is some limited evidence that Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed by the 
adviser  but only as far as it was recorded in the fact find  there is no evidence of how    
Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed by the adviser. Overall, and taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives at the time, I think this meant his money was exposed to risks 
Im not persuaded he was willing or able to take. I am satisfied that the advice Mr M was 
given in 2006 wasnt suitable for him taking account of his personal and financial 
circumstances that Ive already outlined. 
Is Santanders current offer fair?
Santander has offered redress of half of the total investment made based on the return of 
100% fixed rate bond averages with no stock market content taking into account the loss   
Mr M suffered plus the interest he would have got from a fixed rate bond from 2006 to 2008 
plus interest of 8%. 
Santanders current offer effectively re-visits the advice that it gave to Mr M in 2006. But 
bearing in mind the many investment options that were available to him its not possible for 
me to reasonably conclude that this offer is fair and reasonable when it cant be known what 
Mr M would have done otherwise. 
As Ive concluded above, I think this money was important to him and Im of the opinion that 
considering the advice Santander gave him, it has placed too much weight on his then 
current ability to replace any losses.  And while Mr M might have wanted to increase his risk 
exposure somewhat, this advice left him overexposed to property  which if risks 
materialised, may have severely limited his ability to access his money. He also had 
significant exposure to equities and their fluctuations.
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I am upholding it. Santander has 
acknowledged its advice wasnt right  but only on the basis Mr M should have invested less. 
But, as Ive explained, I simply think the advice was unsuitable for him. So, to put the matter 
right, I need to put Mr M, as far as possible, in the financial position hed be in if he had been 
suitably advised.
My role isnt to retrospectively say what the suitable advice would have been, but Im not 
persuaded that Santanders current offer is a fair way to compensate Mr M. There were 
many ways Mr M could have invested and its not possible for me to now say precisely what 
he would have done. So, in line with our long-standing approach, I think its more appropriate 
to use a benchmark to assess the type of return Mr M would have been able to achieve with 
suitable advice, rather than the more prescriptive approach Santander has suggested. Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put    
Mr M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given    
Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Santander do?
To compensate Mr M fairly Santander should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value 
and the actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Santander should also pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Investment 
bond  
(distribution 
growth fund 
and 
property 
fund)surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementI have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date. (*)
(*) HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest.
Santander must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken
if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay the amount 
as calculated above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman