DRN-2332785
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (UK Branch) (IPA) incorrectly declined his 
claim and gave poor customer service under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M contacted IPA to make a claim for a leaking toilet. It sent a plumber who 
assessed the damage and said that a new cistern was required.  A few days later IPA 
received the quote to change the cistern, which exceeded the policy limit. Mr M declined the 
quote and ultimately instructed his own plumber and paid for the repair.
Mr M was aware that under the terms and conditions of the policy, there was an alternative 
accommodation clause. However, IPA were unable to offer alternative accommodation due 
to Covid 19 and the government restrictions at the time. Recognising this, IPA offered 
compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
IPA also refunded the cost of the replacement cistern of £110 as a goodwill gesture and 
offered a further £50 as it recognised that there was some confusion regarding the claim. Mr 
M wasnt satisfied with this outcome and so referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that IPA had been fair in its offer to resolve the complaint by recognising that it 
had made a mistake. She said that it also offered to refund the cost of the cistern, as well as 
pay the alternative accommodation up to the policy limit. So she couldnt reasonably ask it to 
do anymore. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator as he felt that he was lied to by the insurance 
company and that he suffered inhumane treatment as a result of him staying in an 
uninhabitable home, as IPA had failed to authorise the repairs straightaway. Mr M asked for 
a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr M had a bank account that had the benefit of a home emergency policy, with separate 
policy limits for claims under home emergencies and alternative accommodation.  Mr M 
reported a leaking toilet which I am satisfied, constituted a home emergency. 
The nature of the home emergency was that he had no use of his toilet, so having applied 
the terms of the policy, I am satisfied that his home became uninhabitable for this reason. I 
must now examine whether IPA applied the terms and conditions to Mr Ms claim fairly.  
Both parties accept, that Mr M was given incorrect information regarding whether his toilet 
was covered under the terms of the policy and for this he received poor customer service. I 
can see that there appeared to be some confusion as to whether Mr Ms toilet was covered 
under the policy. It seems that IPA initially thought that his toilet wasnt covered. Despite this, 
it offered to reimburse the cost of Mr Ms plumber who came and repaired the toilet, which 
was £110. It also offered compensation for the error and the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I am of the view that IPA has considered Mr Ms vulnerabilities and that this situation 
was unpleasant and has awarded compensation to reflect this. So, I am satisfied that IPA 
has acted reasonably.
IPA also accepts that it couldnt provide alternative accommodation due to the Covid 19 
government restrictions at the time. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and for each alternative 
accommodation claim the maximum permissible under the policy is £100.  I understand that 
Mr M wanted £300 which he equated to £100 per day compensation. But I dont think that 
IPA were unreasonable to rely upon the terms and conditions of the policy, when it offered 
the maximum permitted amount for the alternative accommodation, which was the £100. So 
it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to conclude that IPA couldnt rely on this term. And I 
think that it acted in accordance with the policy. 
Taking all of this into account, I am satisfied that the total £150 in compensation and the 
£110 reimbursed plumbers fees offered, is fair in the circumstances. I understand that IPA 
has already reimbursed Mr M the £110.  As to the compensation, If this hasnt already been 
paid to Mr M, I recommend that he contact IPA to accept this payment and I wont be asking 
IPA to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Inter Partner Assistance SA (UK Branch) has already made an offer to pay a total of £150 for 
the trouble and upset it caused and reimbursed the plumbers fees of £110. I think these are 
fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman