DRN-2537259
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy in October 2004 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost 70p per £100 of Mrs Ds outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs D returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs D says she was not aware that she was paying for the policy. AXA says Mrs D chose to 
take PPI and its provided a copy of Mrs Ds application form for me to review. 
Looking at the form, there is a section about protecting the account with a statement to say 
yes to PPI. In brackets it says, Only sign this box if you require payment protection. I can 
see Mrs D signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to her account. So, I think 
its more likely than not Mrs D would have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont think 
she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mrs D, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But AXA 
did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to take 
it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs D was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances at 
the time of sale, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her. So, I dont think better 
information would have stopped her from buying it. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs D.
Mrs D says she was entitled to 12 weeks pay if she was off sick from work and she would 
have received redundancy if she lost her job. She also says she had a car she could have 
sold and that she had a life insurance policy in place. Finally, she says that her mother would 
have helped her if necessary. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ds said, but the policy would have paid out on top of her 
employee benefits and potentially for a lot longer. I think it more likely than not that Mrs D 
would have wanted to avoid selling her possessions to make her repayments if she could. 
Life insurance provides a different kind of protection to PPI  it wouldnt have helped Mrs D 
to make her repayments if she was off sick from work, or if she lost her job. And while her 
mother may have offered to help, circumstances could change which means her help 
couldnt always be relied on. So, I dont think this shows the policy wasnt right for Mrs D and 
I think she could have found the cover useful if she fell on hard times. 
Overall, I dont think better information would have changed Mrs Ds decision to take the 
policy and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman