DRN-3182567
The complaint
Mr R complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) has unfairly 
handled a claim he made under his legal expense insurance (LEI) policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In late January 2021 Mr R contacted DAS regarding a breach of contract regarding a 
motorhome with Company A.
A DAS appointed firm (Company B) called Mr R, he says the representative shouted 
at him and was abusive. So, Mr R provided details of his own chosen law firm he 
wished to use instead (Company C).
DAS wrote to Mr R shortly after, explaining under the cover it would appoint one of its 
preferred solicitors until the claim reached the point where the issue of legal 
proceedings is necessary. And it said if Mr R wanted to use his own chosen solicitor 
before this point, this wouldnt be covered by the policy.
DAS agreed it took details of Mr Rs chosen solicitor, but says it never approved 
them or agreed to cover their costs. DAS also attempted to appoint a separate firm  
Company D, but Mr R disagreed citing bad reviews. DAS then approached Company 
E who were unable to handle the claim due to professional conduct reasons.
Sometime after, Mr R told DAS he had settled the matter with Company A at a 
fraction of the value of the claim due to DAS not covering the claim. And he 
complained, saying DAS failure to appoint suitable representation or allow him to 
appoint his own, had left him no choice but to accept an unsatisfactory offer. 
DAS responded, saying it believed it had acted fairly in regards to appointing 
representation in line with its policy. But it acknowledged it had made communication 
failings and awarded Mr R £100 in compensation.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service, requesting compensation for breach of 
contract and loss of earnings. He said DAS had fabricated facts and missed 
important information.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained any unhappiness with 
particular solicitors would need to be addressed by the legal ombudsman. And that 
DAS had been clear on the procedure he would need to follow to get cover. She also 
said Mr Rs agreement to settle the matter wasnt impacted by DAS. And she said the 
£100 it offered for communication issues was fair in the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Complaints about solicitors 
Mr R has raised concerns about the behaviour and competency of solicitors involved in this 
claim. As our investigator has already outlined, complaints of this nature would need to be 
addressed by the Legal Ombudsman.
DASs handling of the claim
Mr R feels DAS treated him unfairly when it didnt allow him to appoint his own legal 
representation. Im satisfied DAS explained the process for when this would be allowed on a 
number of occasions to him  including within a letter of 8 February 2021. And Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it ever approved his chosen solicitors or gave him this impression.
Mr R subsequently accepted a settlement from Company A. He says he was forced to 
accept a lower offer than he should have. DAS questioned why Mr R agreed to the 
settlement amount if he was unhappy with the sum offered. And given his agreement to the 
settlement was at his own discretion and without the involvement of DAS, I see no fair 
reason to hold it reasonable for the sum he accepted. So, I wont be directing DAS to 
compensate Mr R for a sum he believes he shouldve received instead.
DAS has acknowledged its handling of the claim in places shouldve been better. It cited 
delays in reviewing the file and getting back to Mr R, as well as confusion of asking for 
further information after initially emailing to say the claim was covered. It also said it 
shouldve handled its calls better when there were problems with the quality of the telephone 
line. Having reviewed this carefully, Im in agreement that DAS made mistakes. 
In light of the frustration caused and taking into account these inconveniences on the overall 
claim, Im satisfied the £100 compensation it has offered is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr R also feels DAS should cover losses he says his business has suffered due to lost 
income while this matter has preoccupied his time. While I dont doubt this experience may 
have been a challenging time for Mr R, Im not persuaded DAS has impacted this claim in 
any such way that would justify covering the losses hes described. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint as Im satisfied the £100 offer DAS 
has already made is fair and reasonable. 
I direct DAS to pay the £100 in compensation to Mr R if it hasn't done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman