DRN-4455245
Complaint
Miss L has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly provided her with personal 
loans. 
She says that HSBC shouldnt have lent her so much money as it ought to have seen that 
this was irresponsible lending.
Background
HSBC initially provided Miss L with a loan for £15,000.00 in September 2021. The loan had 
an APR of 3.1% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay of 
£16,194.61, which included interest of £1,194.61 was due to be repaid in 1 monthly 
instalment of £269.62 followed by 59 monthly instalments of £269.61. 
HSBC subsequently provided Miss L with a loan for £10,000.00 in October 2021. This loan 
instead had an APR of 8.9% but also had 60-month term. This meant that the total amount 
to repay of £12,327.47, which included interest of £2,327.47 was due to be repaid in 1 
monthly instalment of £205.33 followed by 59 monthly instalments of £205.46. 
There have been a number of extensive representations made on this complaint. In 
particular given the circumstances around the time of the applications and what has 
happened since. Given the sensitivities of Miss Ls situation and position, I do not propose to 
go into any detail on these matters. But whats important here is that Miss L initially asked us 
to focus on whether HSBC should have given her these loans in the first place and the 
service she received when she contacted HSBC after this.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that HSBC didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably when providing loan 1. But she also thought that HSBC shouldnt have 
provided loan 2 as reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it that the loan 
was unaffordable for Miss L. Finally, she thought that HSBC provided Miss L with poor 
service when she got in touch to explain her position.
Miss L didnt disagree with our investigators assessment. But HSBC did disagree and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a final decision. 
As the parties appear to be in agreement over the position relating to loan 1, this decision is 
only looking at whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when providing Miss L with loan 2 
and what has since happened afterwards. And all reference made to loan (rather than loan 1 
or loan 2) from this point forward is made with reference to loan 2 which was provided in 
October 2021.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ls complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ls complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L 
would be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant 
adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did HSBC complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L would 
be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant adverse 
consequences?
HSBC provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required HSBC to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so HSBC had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss L. In practice this meant 
that HSBC had to take reasonable and proportionate steps to understand that making the 
payments to the loan wouldnt cause  Miss L undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for HSBC to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); andthe greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were HSBCs checks reasonable and proportionate?
HSBC says it agreed to Miss Ls application after it validated her income and undertook a full 
affordability assessment using a combination of modelled (statistical) essential monthly 
spending such as her utility bills, her council tax, her grocery shopping etc, as well as any 
rent or mortgage payments. 
It says that it also included any credit commitments Miss L had as a result of carrying out 
credit checks with credit reference agencies at the time of her application. It then considered 
if Miss L still had an appropriate level of disposable income to support the required loan 
payment. In this case, it considered that Miss L did have sufficient funds to make her 
payments and it was prepared to lend loan 2 (as well as loan 1) to her. 
On the other hand, Miss L has said she should never have been accepted for such a large 
loan on her income.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said. But I have concerns at some of the information 
relied upon. Firstly, Miss L (according to copies of Miss Ls bank statements which HSBC 
provided) only earned around £1,500.00 a month. The combined monthly loan repayments 
for loans 1 and 2 was close to a third of Miss Ls income. 
Equally, HSBC was advancing a significant sum over an extended term. Certainly when the 
combined amount owing is considered Miss L was going to be significantly indebted when 
taking into account her income. 
Furthermore, I also think that the situation was exacerbated by the fact that HSBC, at best, 
chose to use statistical data to validate Miss Ls declaration of her living expenses. I accept 
that there is a place for the use of statistical data in income and expenditure assessments. 
This is particularly in cases where there isnt anything out of the norm in terms of the 
information that a lender has about a borrower. 
However, I dont think that the use of statistical data is as appropriate in circumstances 
where a borrower is being lent such a large amount over an extended period of time and 
with the monthly payment taking up a significant proportion of the customers income. I am 
also mindful that the funds from loan 1 were immediately transferred on to another account 
and this was only a month prior to this loan. So HSBC ought to have been aware that there 
was a significant danger that whatever was recorded as Miss Ls loan purpose might not 
have been correct.
Bearing in mind the particular circumstances of the borrowing here, I do think that HSBC 
ought to have obtained further information before agreeing to provide this loan to Miss L. As 
theres no evidence that HSBC asked for, or considered, further information, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing       
Miss L with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to HSBC that Miss L
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told HSBC that Miss L wouldve been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss L has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Miss L has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks HSBC mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from HSBC showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight 
on it as an indication of what Miss Ls financial circumstances were more likely than not to 
have been at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Miss Ls 
statements show that she was paying £1,000.00 a month in rent. And most of the 
approximately £550 to £600 or so she had left in income was being used to meet her 
existing credit commitments (the existing HSBC loan) and her regular living costs. 
Bearing all of this in mind, it seems pretty apparent to me that Miss L was extremely unlikely 
to have been able to make the payments to her loan (loan 2) without undue difficulty or 
suffering adverse consequences. Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more likely than not have alerted HSBC to the fact that Miss L would not be 
able to sustainably make the repayments to this loan. 
As this is the case and given what exactly it was HSBC was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that HSBCs decision to provide this loan to Miss L wasnt fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Did Miss L lose out as a result of HSBC unfairly providing her with her loan?
As Miss L paid and shes still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
HSBC did wrong.
So Im satisfied that HSBC needs to put things right in relation to this matter.
Did HSBC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss L in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. It is clear that there has been some 
significant back and forth over phone calls and online chats between HSBC and Miss L after 
she got into difficulties paying her loans. Having listened to some of the calls its clear that 
Miss L has been extremely distressed by this situation.
Bearing in mind what has gone on, what HSBC knows about and the other independent 
third-party evidence Im aware of, it is clear that Miss L was and remains a vulnerable 
customer. I accept that HSBC might not have known this when Miss L made her loan 
applications. But given what it was told at this stage, I certainly think that it ought to have realised this during its attempts to move Miss L through its collections process. And on one 
of the calls, at least, it would have definitely realised this had it actually listened to Miss L. 
I also say this while particularly mindful of the fact that a lender is required to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration in the event a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty 
and its clear that Miss L was conveying an inability to make her payments. 
Given this is the case, I find that HSBC (it says) incorrectly telling Miss L that her loan (or 
loans even to me at this stage its not entirely clear) was being written off to be particularly 
galling. This is particularly bearing in mind that HSBC will have been aware, or at the very 
least ought to have been aware, of the impact of its errors in relation to this matter on a 
vulnerable customer. 
As this is the case and while it has continually referred to this matter as if it somehow 
completely resolved what happened, Im nonetheless satisfied that the £125 it has offered in 
relation to the poor service it has provided is not fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In 
my view, its more of a gesture than a genuine attempt to address the impact of the actions 
of its extremely poor service on Miss L (a vulnerable customer) when she was going though 
a very difficult and traumatic time.
In these circumstances and given my own investigation leaves me satisfied that HSBCs 
poor service here resulted in it acting unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss L in some other 
way, Im satisfied that my direction (on what HSBC should do to put things right) needs to 
consider this. 
I will therefore return to this point and what it means towards the latter part of the Fair 
compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss L section of this final 
decision.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss L
The outstanding balance on loan 2
Ive carefully thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Where I find that 
a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  in so far as is 
reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken place. 
In essence, in this case, this would mean HSBC putting Miss L in the position shed now be 
in if she hadnt been provided with loan 2. But when it comes to complaints about 
irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Miss L was given the loan in question and the 
funds have dissipated  albeit it is possible Miss L may not have derived an actual benefit 
from these funds.
So, in these circumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. And its simply not 
possible to put Miss L back in the position she would be in if she hadnt been given loan 2 in 
the first place because Miss L doesnt have the £10,000.00 available to return to HSBC for 
the agreement to be unwound. As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of 
putting things right in a fair and reasonable way bearing in mind the particular circumstances 
of the case. 
Having done so, Id like to explain the reasons why I think that it would be fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to put things right in the following way, bearing in mind everything that 
has happened. As we explain on our website where we find, or a lender agrees, credit was 
provided irresponsibly, wed typically say its fair reasonable to expect the borrower to repay the funds they were lent but not any associated interest, fees or charges. But I dont think 
that such an award goes far enough here. I think that this is the case for three reasons. 
Firstly, for the reasons I have in some detail already explained, HSBC ought to have been 
aware that there was no prospect of her being able to make her monthly loan payments 
given her rent commitments alone. Furthermore, although I cannot look into these matters, I 
understand that both parties are in agreement that the funds have dissipated since the loan 
was provided. 
Secondly, it is also my understanding and HSBC appears to accept that Miss L is having a 
very tough time. She is unwell, struggling financially and there is a considerable amount of 
independent third-party evidence supporting that shes gone through an extremely tough 
time since she was provided with her loans. So Im satisfied that life will clearly be difficult for 
Miss L in these times, given her current financial position. 
Its difficult to see how Miss L will be able to make payments to this loan going forward or 
repay the outstanding capital within a reasonable period of time, in these circumstances, 
without experiencing severe financial difficulty. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances in which HSBC lent, Miss Ls current financial position 
and the amount of distress and inconvenience HSBC not only unfairly providing this loan to 
Miss L but (my third reason of it) also telling her the balance was written off at an extremely 
vulnerable period for her is likely to have caused, I dont think removing the interest fees and 
charges goes far enough. 
The circumstances of this case and in particular the financial hardship which is likely to be 
caused by requiring Miss L to pay funds she doesnt have and is unlikely to get any time 
soon, as well as all of the circumstances at play here, lead me to think that the fair and 
reasonable thing for HSBC to do here, given all the circumstances, is write off the 
outstanding balance on loan 2. 
The position in relation to loan 1
As Ive explained Miss L is currently going through a difficult time. Therefore, her ability to 
make payments to loan 1 is also affected. Im mindful that Miss L is no longer complaining 
about the provision of this loan  or at the very least shes accepted an outcome from our 
investigator. So it wouldnt be appropriate for me to now look into HSBCs actions in 
providing this loan in the first place, or makes a direction which relates to this.
Nonetheless, HSBC is now aware of Miss Ls struggles and has been provided with 
extensive information in this. And once a lender is told, or it realises, that a borrower is 
experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations.   
In these circumstances and as it is aware of Miss Ls current inability to repay, I think that 
HSBC should take measures to ensure that it doesnt pursue Miss L for the outstanding 
balance on loan 1, unless and until her position and ability to repay her loan changes. Miss L 
is encouraged to get in contact with and update HSBC on any changes to her 
circumstances.
To be clear, Im not directing a write off on loan 1, HSBC can pursue the outstanding debt on 
this loan, once Miss L is in a position to repay what she owes within a reasonable period of 
time. A reasonable period of time will take into account the amount owing and matters such 
as the typical period of time to repay such a balance.   Miss Ls credit file
I turn now to Miss Ls credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
regarding a loan, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is upheld for irresponsible 
lending. However, I dont think that doing this would be the fair and reasonable thing to do 
here given what Im asking HSBC to do in terms of the loan balance. 
To explain, the basis for Miss Ls complaint was and is that her position was made worse by 
HSBCs decision to lend to her in October 2021, in circumstances where she is unlikely to 
ever be able to repay what she owed. Ive accepted this is the case and this has played a 
large part in my decision to uphold Miss Ls complaint and make the direction I am making.
In these circumstances, it seems to me removing the adverse information relating to loan 2 
from Miss Ls credit file (and asking HSBC to record this loan as having been settled early, 
which would be the effective result here, when a substantial portion of the capital was written 
off), thus increasing the chances of her being able to borrow further would be 
counterproductive and arguably not in her best interests, or those of any potential lender. 
And, in these circumstances, I think it is fair and reasonable for HSBC to reflect what Im 
asking it to do in relation to the outstanding balance on the loan. So HSBC should record 
that it wrote off a balance on loan 2 on Miss Ls credit file. For the sake of completeness, I 
should say that HSBC should also accurately record the position in relation to loan 1 too.
HSBC poor service and any distress and inconvenience caused to Miss L
I have already set out why I think HSBC (additionally) didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Miss L as a result of its poor service once became aware of Miss Ls difficulties and 
ability to repay. Ive also said that this is a matter I need to consider when determining fair 
compensation.
In particular, I was not satisfied that HSBCs payment sufficiently addressed the poor service 
it provided Miss L once she got in contact about her difficulties. In my view, the payment did 
not address Miss Ls circumstances or the fact that she was a vulnerable customer 
experiencing a very difficult and traumatic time. 
That said, Im mindful that Im directing HSBC to write off the outstanding balance on loan 2 
and this will result in Miss L having repaid substantially less than the amount she was lent to 
begin with. Ive already explained 
Therefore, while Ive carefully thought about matters and I am not satisfied that HSBCs 
payment of £125 in compensation was sufficient and while I may have told HSBC to pay a 
not insubstantial amount of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions 
caused Miss L were it not for my direction to write off the outstanding balance, I am 
nonetheless satisfied what has been and will be done here will fair produce a fair and 
reasonable result. And Im not making an additional award for distress and inconvenience . 
Summary of my direction on what HSBC needs to do to put things right 
Overall and having thought about everything, I think that HSBC should put things right for 
Miss L by:
writing off the remaining balance on loan 2 and discharging Miss L from any potential 
liability in relation to this debt;not pursuing the outstanding balance on loan 1 unless and until it is able to 
reasonable conclude that Miss Ls circumstances have changed and that she is able 
to repay this balance in a reasonable period of time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman