DRN-2074626
The complaint
Mr G complains that a finance agreement he entered into with Oodle Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance (Oodle), has not been set up properly.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Oodle, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
There is conflicting information here. Whilst Oodle say the new agreement included a part 
exchange and that Mr Gs negative equity from that deal was carried over fairly into the new 
agreement with them; Mr G doesnt agree. He says the new deal was as a result of him 
rejecting the previous car he had funded through the same dealership and that he wasnt 
aware any negative equity had been transferred to his new agreement.
On balance, I think its most likely that Mr Gs version of events is correct, and I dont think 
he should have to fund the negative equity on his previous agreement.
I say that because:
I dont think Mr G would have been likely to agree to part exchange his previous 
vehicle only five days after he had taken ownership of it if he had known he would 
have a shortfall of £1,691 added to the new agreement. I think its likely the 
dealership didnt explain this properly to Mr G and he was therefore misled;
Im not persuaded by the dealerships account of matters and I think its more 
plausible that the previous car was rejected for quality concerns and this was a 
replacement deal;
Whilst the paperwork does explain how the finance has been put together Ive not 
been provided with sufficient information to explain why a consumer would accept 
such a significant shortfall on an agreement established only a few days earlier. I 
think its fair to suggest the dealership had a responsibility to ensure Mr G understood 
the finance being proposed and I dont think its likely they did. 
Had Mr G had a proper explanation of the terms of his agreement I dont think its likely he 
would have proceeded.
Putting things right
In those circumstances I think the fairest resolution would be for Oodle to remove the 
negative equity from the finance agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to amend Mr Gs finance agreement; removing the negative equity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman