DRN-2379322
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc T/A Post Office Financial Services dealt 
with his chargeback request. Hes unhappy he was charged interest on his disputed credit 
card transaction whilst his chargeback claim was ongoing.
What happened
Mr D holds a credit card with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc T/A Post Office Financial Services, 
hereafter referred to as POFS.
On 5 November 2019 Mr D purchased two coats online from a company, which Ill refer to 
here as B. He paid for these items using his POFS credit card. B debited Mr D for the coats 
hed purchased in two separate transactions  one on 6 November 2019 and the other five 
days later.  
Mr D received one coat and returned it. He received a refunded from B for that item on 12 
November 2019. However, the other coat wasnt delivered. And, on 4 December 2019, Mr D 
contacted POFS to ask it to deal with this purchase as a disputed transaction under its 
chargeback procedure so he could get his money back. 
On 11 December 2019 POFS raised a chargeback request on Mr Ds behalf. But it said 
there was initially no response from B to this request. And when a response was received 
the chargeback claim wasnt accepted.
On 6 February 2020 POFS re-presented Mr Ds chargeback claim. It said that there was no 
response to this request until 19 April 2020 when the claim was accepted by Bs bank. POFS 
processed Mr Ds refund the following day.
Mr D complained that during the time he had been disputing his purchase he had incurred 
interest. He felt that was unfair and asked POFS to refund the interest hed been charged.
When POFS responded to Mr Ds complaint it didnt uphold it. It stated that, as Mr D had 
only been paying the minimum monthly payment each month, interest had been applied in 
line with the terms and conditions of his credit card. It also explained that it hadnt made an 
error in how it had dealt with his chargeback request.
Being dissatisfied with POFS response to his complaint, Mr D referred his complaint to our 
service. But, while our investigator empathised with Mr D, they didnt recommend upholding 
his complaint. Overall, they didnt think POFS had made an error in how it had dealt with his 
chargeback request. And they thought it had acted reasonably in charging Mr D interest. So, 
they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Mr D disagreed and asked an 
ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think POFS made a mistake, or treated Mr D unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
POFS have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr D will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr D and POFS, but Ill concentrate 
my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive identified two parts to Mr Ds complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Did POFS act fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr Ds chargeback request?
I think its important to explain how the chargeback process works. It allows consumers to 
ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on their card in certain circumstances  
such as where theres a problem with the transaction as there was here.  It doesnt 
guarantee that consumers will get their money back - its not a legal right - and individual 
card issuers have their own rules to say how the scheme works.
Its clear that Mr D doesnt think POFS proactively dealt with his chargeback claim. But I can 
see that once it was made aware by Mr D that there was a problem with his purchase it 
provided the relevant documentation to allow dispute his transaction. And it initiated the 
chargeback request within a short period of receiving Mr Ds documentation. So, I think it 
raised the chargeback claim promptly and proactively.
The chargeback process requires a merchant to respond to evidence submitted by a card 
issuer. Mr D has argued that B informed him that it had agreed to the chargeback request in 
December 2019. But POFS has shown our service evidence that satisfies me that B didnt 
appropriately respond to the claim that was made until April 2020.
POFS was right to chase B for its response to Mr Ds chargeback request. And when B 
responded, POFS correctly challenged the response it had received on the grounds that it 
disagreed with the information B had provided. I think this shows POFS was acting in Mr Ds 
best interests. And I cant criticise it for being unable to issue a refund while it was waiting for 
a valid chargeback response from B. 
I also think POFS acted appropriately in re-presenting Mr Ds chargeback claim in February 
2020 given Bs lack of proper engagement in the chargeback process. This is what Id 
expect it to do in the circumstances.
Ive seen evidence that shows that, after POFS re-presented the chargeback request on Mr 
Ds behalf, it regularly chased B for a response. But it wasnt until 19 April 2020 that it 
received a satisfactory response. That delay was beyond POFS control.
I can see POFS processed Mr Ds refund the day after the chargeback claim was accepted. 
So, I cant fairly say it delayed matters here. And I havent been able to identify an error in 
how it dealt with this chargeback claim.
Did POFS act unfairly in applying interest to Mr Ds disputed transactionMr D says POFS informed him that while his transaction with B was being disputed no 
interest would be incurred. But POFS refutes this and explained, in correspondence dated 7 
May 2020, that it had no record of agreeing not to charge interest during the chargeback 
process.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can see that the statement POFS sent Mr D in November 2019 outlined in clear, intelligible 
language that in order to avoid purchase interest hed need to pay his full statement balance. 
And I can see he only made the monthly minimum payment. So, Im satisfied POFS made 
Mr D aware of the circumstances in which hed incur interest.
Ive also had sight of the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, which state that if the full 
outstanding balance shown on the statement isnt paid interest will be charged. These terms 
also go on to explain how POFS deals with disputed transactions and refunds and say:
We will credit the Account with the amount of the refund only when we receive the 
appropriate notification from the Retailer which is acceptable to us. We will charge you 
interest on the amount of the Transaction until we credit the amount of the refund to your 
Account.
In view of the above evidence, I think its unlikely that POFS would have told Mr D had he 
wouldnt incur interest while the chargeback claim was unresolved. And I think the interest 
Mr D accrued was applied in line with the terms of his account.
 
I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with POFS informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr D 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman