DRN-2836946
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy about a secured loan she has with Elderbridge Limited. The loan was 
originally taken out with a different lender that Ill refer to as F and was transferred to 
Elderbridge in 2016.
In March 2020 Ms G stopped making payments to the loan and raised a complaint, saying 
shed already paid a lot of money and she didnt think Elderbridge was entitled to any more.
What happened
In March 2006 Ms G took out a £25,100 secured loan with F. The loan agreement shows a 
180-month term and monthly payments of £259.62 (variable).
Elderbridge has supplied a copy of a second credit agreement which it says was signed by 
Ms G in July 2007. That agreement shows a loan of £50,000 (plus £9,965 for PPI), a 
240-month term and payments of £489.25 a month (variable). Elderbridge has provided us 
with a copy of a letter addressed to Ms G at the time that said the proceeds had repaid the 
2006 loan, plus it enclosed cheques for Ms G to pass to various creditors and £11,793.80 for 
Ms G personally. Ms G says she didnt take out this loan.
In June 2009 theres a contact note saying Ms G had said she was off work as she was 
unwell. Ms G made a claim on the PPI policy and it appears that claim met the monthly 
payments for a number of months.
In March 2011 a claims management company made a data subject access request, and 
then in May 2011 the same company made a PPI mis-selling complaint on Ms Gs behalf. 
Theres a note in October 2011 indicating redress of around £4,000 had been paid, and the 
account had been rescheduled to remove the PPI.
A contact note from January 2018 says Ms G had called to request a redemption quote, and 
then the complaint was made in March 2020.
Whilst we were looking at the complaint Elderbridge said it would suppress the interest, to 
help support [Ms G]. As such, we will retrospectively set the interest rate at 0% from 
September 2020. Following this adjustment, this would see an adjustment to the balance 
and with a potential amendment to the monthly instalment to assist clearing the loan within 
the remaining term.
Our investigator said that was a fair offer. She was satisfied Ms G had taken out the larger 
loan in 2007, and so needed to pay that back.
Ms G didnt agree. She said she hadnt taken out the larger loan and questioned whether 
that would be classed as irresponsible lending as she said her property wasnt worth enough 
to support that size of loan. She also commented on the level of calls she received from 
Elderbridge when she stopped making her payments, which had affected her mental health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Elderbridge said Ms G repaid the original loan, replacing it with the larger one in July 2007. 
Ms G says that didnt happen and she only ever had the original £25,100 loan.
Elderbridge has provided a copy of the signed loan agreement and having looked at the 
signature on that next to the signature on the 2006 agreement they dont appear 
inconsistent. In addition, Ms Gs monthly payments increased substantially; from around 
£270 before July 2007 to around £500 after. With such a substantial increase in her monthly 
payments I would have expected Ms G to query that at the time, or at any time over the next 
decade, if she hadnt borrowed the additional money.
The contact notes at the time indicate Ms G phoned to request a further advance in 
May 2007. It says she wanted to clear her debts and carry out some home improvements. 
As our investigator explained, it isnt at all uncommon for a person to approach a lender for 
increased borrowing soon after taking out their original loan. Weve also been provided with 
a copy of a letter addressed to Ms G and dated 25 July 2007. The letter says the loan has 
been completed, and that it enclosed cheques for Mr G to pass to her creditors plus 
£11,793.80 for her personally.
Ms G has said she didnt claim back the PPI on the second loan and said she didnt do so 
because she was unaware the loan existed. But thats not the case with the PPI. The PPI 
claim in 2009 was made under the second loan account, and the PPI redress was also 
calculated on that.
Having considered everything Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms G did take out the second 
loan and so I cant order Elderbridge to remove the charge from her property until such time 
as that is repaid.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or carry 
out a forensic analysis of secured loan accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history and 
theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of course, its open to Ms G to 
instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit her account. But that would 
have to be at her expense  though if errors were found to her financial detriment, she could 
complain about them and her costs in discovering them could be taken into account in 
putting matters right. But as things stand, Im not persuaded that Elderbridge has 
mis-managed her loan account.
Ms G has commented on the contact she received from Elderbridge after she stopped 
making her payments and asked whether the second loan was mis-sold. Our rules state that 
a business must be given the opportunity to investigate and respond to any issues first, so 
Ms G should raise these issues as a new complaint directly with the respective business(es) 
if she wants them looked into. 
Finally, Elderbridge has offered to supress the interest on Ms Gs loan and that seems a fair 
offer. Ms G needs to contact Elderbridge to discuss her options, either directly or with the 
help of someone trained to give her free debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens 
Advice. If Ms G was unhappy with the outcome of those discussions with Elderbridge then 
that would be a new complaint she could refer to us at the time (subject to our rules, of 
course). But we cant get involved unless Elderbridge has had a chance to discuss the options with Ms G, and then had the opportunity to deal with a complaint from Ms G about 
those discussions.
Id encourage Ms G to contact Elderbridge (either directly, or via an agency as Ive explained 
above) and have an open and honest conversation about her circumstances and worries for 
both now and the future. Theyll need to work together and that means Ms G will need to be 
frank about her situation. And Elderbridge will need to listen to what she has to say and, 
fairly and sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with her to agree a way forward. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman