DRN-3588745
The complaint
Ms O complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited's decision to 
decline a claim she made on her policy for legal assistance.
What happened
Ms O took out home insurance which included legal expenses cover in 2016. In 2017 she 
made a claim on that insurance and that claim was declined by DAS. At the time DAS 
declined the claim because the service charge dispute started before the date of the policy.
Ms Os claim in 2021 was for legal representation to defend county court proceedings 
brought by the owner of the freehold of her flat for non-payment of amounts towards the 
service charge and major works totalling over £1,400. The claim form is dated 24 May 2021. 
She brought the complaint to DAS on 7 June 2021. 
DAS said the claim couldnt be covered because it didnt come under the contract disputes 
section of cover in the policy or the legal defence cover. It told her this two days after the 
court deadline.
Ms O asked for the decision to be reviewed, and said shed received legal advice that a 
service charge dispute was a legally binding contract and fell under the contract 
dispute/legal defence cover. Prior to taking out the policy, she said she asked the seller of 
the policy whether a service charge dispute would be covered under the insurance and she 
said she had been told it would be.
DAS logged a complaint. It requested a copy of the full particulars of claim as it said only the 
first page had been received. 
Ms O said the court paper sent to DAS was the full particulars of claim received from the 
court. 
DASs final response to her complaint partly upheld it. DAS said the legal expenses section 
of cover in her policy covered certain legal disputes, but it wasnt all encompassing and was 
subject to terms, conditions, and exclusions. For a claim to be covered, it had to be 
established that the event leading to a claim came within one of the insured events set out in 
the policy. The claim didnt come under the contract disputes cover as a lease was a 
contract for land and didnt fall within the classification of either a good or a service. It 
noted she has queried the reference to a service as the dispute related to service charges. 
However, DAS said that was a responsibility under the contract and not the reason for the 
contract. The legal defence cover couldnt assist either. DAS said that even though the 
policy couldnt assist at this stage, a future matter might fall within the cover. And Ms O could 
still use the legal advice helpline.
DAS upheld Ms Os complaint that further enquiries should have been made as to the time 
period to which the claim against her related. This hadnt been clarified by the freeholder, but 
it was thought to relate to service charges for the last financial year. Ms O said she hadnt 
been told in a previous claim made in 2017 that the policy couldnt assist with leasehold 
disputes. DAS said the previous decision could have said that her policy wouldnt be able to 
assist with leasehold claims. It agreed that her claim should have been prioritised because of 
the court deadline and she didnt receive a response to her email of 26 June 2021, which 
had been dealt with in the letter under policy cover. DAS apologised and said that 
compensation of £150 would be paid as an apology. Feedback had been given to the 
department in question.
Ms O remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. She would like the policy to be 
honoured and her claim paid as well as compensation. She also has concerns her claim was 
declined because DAS is the freeholders insurer.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for DAS to have declined Ms Os claim under the contract disputes section of 
cover, because it had to relate to an agreement for the buying or hiring in of any goods or 
services. The investigator also thought that the claim wasnt covered under the legal defence 
cover in the policy. She thought the amount of compensation which DAS offered to pay was 
reasonable as it recognised that there was a delay in coming back to Ms O with the outcome 
of the claim.
Ms O disagreed. She said DAS at first accepted the claim and only didnt appoint solicitors 
as agreed after somebody intervened. She said when she contacted DAS in 2017 it said that 
the only reason it could not accept the claim was because the service charge dispute started 
before the date of the policy which clearly means that if the claim then was after the policy 
date, it would have accepted the claim. DAS is, she said, in breach of the policy as there is 
nothing in the policy wording or exclusions that stated that her claim is not covered, and she 
was told that it was covered. DAS should honour the policy and pay compensation for the 
distress, inconvenience and loss suffered as a result. DASs position that her claim does not 
come under the contract dispute section of the policy is totally baseless. Service charge is a 
contract and the provision of services. The policy wording makes it clear that it covers the 
buying or hiring in of any goods or services. There is no reference to a lease in the policy or 
its exclusions as DAS seems to suggest. 
The investigator issued a second view. She didnt agree that DAS had said it would appoint 
solicitors. She said a letter was sent to Ms O saying: if your claim was covered, the next 
stage was to send it to a lawyer who would assess. DAS then told Ms O that the claim didn't 
come within the cover for contract disputes or legal defence, so it didn't get to the next stage 
where a lawyer would assess whether it had prospects of success. 
The investigator also didnt agree with Ms Os interpretation of DASs letter in June 2017 
regarding her previous claim. She thought it didnt automatically mean that the claim would 
have been accepted if it had related to events occurring after the policy date. She also didnt 
agree that Ms Os claim was covered. She said under the contract disputes cover, the 
dispute had to arise from an agreement for 'goods or services.' But, a lease isn't classed as 
a good or service - the ordinary meaning of a lease is a conveyance or grant of the 
possession of property to last during the life of a person or for a term of years or other fixed 
period, with the reservation of a rent.
Ms O has asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said:
it is the case that DAS accepted the claim and in a telephone conversation it asked 
her whether she wanted it to appoint a solicitor or whether she want to appoint the 
solicitor. She says they agreed that DAS would appoint a solicitor for her. The next 
time she heard from DAS was when the court date to file a defence had elapsed and 
she contacted it again. DAS knew the date required by the court to file a defence, it 
agreed to appoint a solicitor for her over the phone but did not bother. It is totally unreasonable to behave in this manner to say the least. This action by DAS was 
because of an intervention by somebody and she has now found out that DAS has a 
relationship with the freeholder as underwriters which raises serious questions of 
conflict of interest.
her claim should be covered under the policy. She thinks that DAS deliberately cut off 
part of the policy wording in its correspondence and this should speak volumes.
she was told the only reason her claim was declined in 2017 was because the 
dispute started before the policy started. She says this means that the service charge 
dispute is covered, and DAS has always known this. 
when she bought the policy, she was told a service charge dispute would be covered.
My provisional decision
I set out a provisional decision. In it I said:
DAS did not sell the policy so I cannot make any finding about the sale of the policy in this 
decision. The policy was sold to Ms O by another business. Ms O has also brought a 
complaint about that business. This decision is not about the actions of that business and so 
I make no decision about the actions or omissions of that business.
Is Ms Os claim covered under the terms of the policy
Given this is a service charge dispute there are three sections of the policy which are most 
relevant. These are contract disputes, property protection and legal defence.
Looking at these in reverse order. The legal defence section doesnt help Ms O because it is 
concerned with defences relating to an event arising from the insureds work or their 
prosecution for an offence connected with the use or driving of a motor vehicle.
In the property protection section, there is a specific exclusion for:
The enforcement of a covenant by or against you (meaning the enforcement of an 
agreement you have entered into in connection with land you own).
As a service charge dispute will concern the enforcement of a covenant in a lease then this 
exclusion will mean the service charge dispute wouldnt be covered. Even if I was wrong, I 
dont think Ms Os claim would be covered in any event. Ive explained why below.
Ms O thinks she is covered under the contract disputes section of the policy.
This says:
We will cover the costs and expenses for the following:
Your or your familys legal rights in a contractual dispute arising from an agreement 
or an alleged agreement which you or your family has entered into for: -The buying 
or hiring in of any goods or services; or the selling of any goods.
Your legal rights in a contractual dispute or for misrepresentation arising from an 
agreement or alleged agreement which you have entered into for the buying or 
selling of your principal home.
Provided that:
You and your family has entered into the agreement or alleged agreement during 
the insurance period.The amount in dispute is more than £100. 
I read the words provided that as applying to both the sub clauses above. So, for Ms Os 
service charge dispute to be covered Ms O would need to have entered into the agreement 
giving rise to the service charge dispute during the insurance period. The agreement giving 
rise to the service charge dispute is her lease. The insurance period is defined as: The 
period for which we have agreed to cover you. The insurance is an annual insurance policy 
running from April to April and was first taken out in 2016. We know that Ms O had a service 
charge dispute which began prior to the insurance being taken out so the lease must pre-
date the insurance. Therefore, Ms Os service charge dispute is not covered.
I also dont think Ms Os service charge dispute is covered because I agree with the 
investigator that a service charge dispute cant be fairly characterised as an agreement for 
the buying or hiring in of any goods or services, or the selling of any goods. It is primarily a 
property dispute and the service charge element of the lease is clearly secondary to the 
main purpose of the contract which is to convey land.
I think it is arguable that a service charge dispute might be a dispute arising from an 
agreement entered into for the buying or selling of your principal home. But I think the 
requirement that the agreement be entered into during the insurance period means that the 
service charge dispute isnt covered here so I dont need to consider how this clause and the 
clause I referred to above regarding covenants interact.
Taking all the above into account I dont think Ms O is covered and I therefore dont think it 
was unfair of DAS to decline her claim.
The 2017 claim
When Ms O first brought a claim to DAS regarding service charge disputes DAS declined the 
claim saying that the claim began before your policy started and so DAS would be unable to 
assist. DAS has accepted that it could have told Ms O she wouldnt be covered in any event. 
I agree this would have been helpful. I dont agree with Ms O that what DAS said means that 
there were no other reasons for declining the claim. As the investigator explained in detail 
there are stages that have to be gone through before a claim is accepted. I think if Ms O 
read DASs email as saying she would have been covered but for the claim being before her 
policy started then she over interrupted the letter and I dont think I can hold DAS 
responsible for that.
Ms O says that had she been told that she wouldnt be covered for service charge disputes 
when DAS declined her claim in 2017, she would have ended her current policy and taken 
out cover with another insurer. I havent seen anything which makes me think DAS knew that 
she wouldnt have kept her insurance cover if she had known she wouldnt be covered for 
service charge disputes. Ms O could have asked DAS when she made her claim if service 
charge disputes were normally covered and if so, would any future claim by her be likely to 
be covered. I cant see any evidence that she did this. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
against DAS Ms O reading too much into its letter.
Delays in notifying Ms O
DAS has accepted Ms Os claim should have been prioritised. It has offered her £150 which 
Ms O hasnt accepted. She says she was told that DAS would appoint a solicitor for her, and 
she didnt find out one hadnt been appointed until after the court deadline. Ms O has said 
this was very traumatic. I dont think it was likely Ms O was told that a solicitor would be 
appointed. I believe she thinks this, but I think shes mistaken. I do think it would have been stressful to discover DAS didnt respond to the court proceedings in time. Ms O has said her 
case is on-gong so it doesnt seem to have affected the case long-term, but it must have 
been upsetting at the time particularly as she presumably didnt realise it wouldnt have long-
term consequences. In these circumstances I think £300 compensation would be fairer.
Alleged bad faith of DAS
I havent seen anything which leads mean to believe DAS hasnt acted in good faith here. It 
did only include a section of the insurance contract in its correspondence with Ms O but both 
Ms O and I have done the same. All of us have, I think, selected as much of the policy as we 
think we need to explain our point and nothing more. I also havent seen any evidence that 
those involved in looking at Ms Os claim were even aware that DAS might have a 
relationship with the freeholder.
Responses to my provisional decision
DAS had nothing to add to my provisional decision.
Ms O didnt accept my provisional decision. She set out at length why she disagreed with it. 
In summary she said:
Her claim should be covered both under the property protection section of the policy 
and the contractual dispute section.
The policy makes it clear that it will cover her legal rights in a contractual dispute. A 
service charge dispute is a contractual dispute. The policy also states that the 
agreement has to be during the insurance period. The service charge dispute is a 
contract within the insurance period because it is a contract that runs annually from 1 
April each year to the 31 March. She quotes the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 to 
support her view that a service charge relates to services.
A lease is not ownership of land because the leaseholder does not own the land. 
DAS is responsible for the selling of the policy as it gave the business which sold the 
policy actual and ostensible authority.
Cutting off part of the policy wording, as DAS did in its letter of 25 August 2021, is an 
act of bad faith.
She doesnt think I should have said even if I am wrong in my provisional decision.
Ms O says that DASs email declining her claim in 2017 was very clear and there was 
no other reason for declining the claim. If DAS had been up front, then she would 
have closed the insurance straightaway without delay.
She maintains she was told by DAS that a solicitor would be appointed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Is Ms Os claim covered under the terms of the policy?
Ms O says she is covered under the property protection section of the policy. Under this 
section there are a number of specific exclusions One is:
The enforcement of a covenant by or against you (meaning the enforcement of an 
agreement you have entered into in connection with land you own).
Ms O says she doesnt own land. She says she is a tenant and does not own the land but 
pays ground rent. In England land can be owned with a freehold or a leasehold interest. I agree that Ms O doesnt own the freehold interest in her flat. She does, however, own the 
leasehold interest. The fact that she pays a ground rent doesnt negate her ownership of the 
interest. As a service charge dispute will concern the enforcement of a covenant in a lease 
then this exclusion will mean the service charge dispute wouldnt be covered.
One of the other exclusions applicable to the property protection section is for: Any claim 
relating to  A contract entered into by you. As Ms O is the tenant and the claim relates to 
the service charge on her lease then this exclusion would seem also to apply.
So, I dont agree that Ms Os claim is covered under the property protection section of the 
policy. 
Ms O says she is covered under the contract disputes section of the policy. She says a 
service charge dispute is a contractual dispute. Further that it is an agreement entered into 
for the buying or selling of her principle home. And that it is concerned with the provision of 
services. She says the policy states that the agreement by her has to be during the 
insurance period. And the service charge dispute is a contract within the insurance period 
because it is a contract that runs annually from 1 April each year to the 31 March. 
The clause in the policy says however the agreement has to be entered into during the 
insurance period. And we know that she didnt enter into the agreement which led to the 
dispute during the insurance period because she had a service charge dispute which pre-
dated the insurance policy, so Ms Os service charge dispute is not covered.
I also dont think Ms Os service charge dispute is covered because I remain of the view that 
a service charge dispute cant be fairly characterised as an agreement for the buying or 
hiring in of any goods or services, or the selling of any goods. It is primarily a property 
dispute and the service charge element of the lease is clearly secondary to the main 
purpose of the contract which is to convey land.
Taking all the above into account it remains my view that Ms Os claim isnt covered, and I 
therefore dont think it was unfair of DAS to decline her claim.
I appreciate that Ms O says that she was told a solicitor would be appointed by DAS. I have 
listened to the only call recording DAS has been able to provide. In it the DAS call handler 
did say: Are you happy for us to find [a] solicitor to act for you? but he immediately followed 
this up with assuming we can cover you. Unfortunately, I havent been able to listen to any 
other calls between DAS and Ms O. Ive thought about what I would have done if DAS had 
made an error and said that it would appoint a solicitor to act for Ms O. I think given Ms O 
wasnt covered for the reasons Ive set out above that it wouldnt be reasonable of me to 
hold DAS to any such error. I would look to compensate Ms O for the disappointment caused 
by the error but looking at the compensation I set out in the provisional decision I think this 
would remain a fair amount. So, I wouldnt expect DAS to anything more.
Is DAS responsible for the sale process?
I do not agree that DAS is responsible for the sale process. If Ms O was mis-sold the policy, 
it would be the seller who was responsible. Ms O has brought a separate complaint about 
the seller and this will be considered in the decision about the seller.
The 2017 claim
I remain of the view that it would have been helpful if DAS had made it clear that a service 
charge claim wouldnt be covered. But as I dont think DAS had any reason to believe that Ms O would have cancelled her policy if she had known these disputes werent covered, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold DAS responsible for Ms O continuing with the policy. 
Delays in notifying Ms O
I also remain of the view that DAS should have prioritised Ms Os claim. And that the 
compensation it has offered is too low. I think £300 remains fair compensation for the upset 
caused. I appreciate Ms O feels DAS has caused her unnecessary anxiety, trauma and 
stress. As I think DAS wasnt unreasonable to decline her claim I am looking to compensate 
her for the delay in declining the claim rather than for the effect on Ms O of having her claim 
declined. And in that context, I think £300 is fair.
Alleged bad faith of DAS
I appreciate that Ms O maintains that DAS has acted in bad faith particularly when setting 
out parts of the policy in a letter to her. As I said in my provisional decision, all of us DAS, 
Ms O and me, have selected parts of the policy when explaining our points and we have all, I 
think, selected as much of the policy as we think we need to explain our point and nothing 
more. I also havent seen any evidence that those involved in looking at Ms Os claim were 
aware that DAS might have a relationship with the freeholder. I dont think DAS has acted 
with bad faith.
Finally, I am sorry that Ms O was shocked and disappointed that I said even if I was wrong 
in my provisional decision. The point I was trying to make was that a service charge claim 
failed as a result of more than one part of the policy and that I didnt need to rely on the 
words of the property protection section to conclude she wasnt covered. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I think DAS should pay Ms O £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Ms O £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman