DRN-3148537
The complaint
Mrs G brings a complaint about the administration of three whole of life policies by Liverpool 
Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV). These policies were set up for three of her family 
members, her sister Mrs M, and her sons Mr K and Mr W, with Mrs G paying the premiums. 
Mrs G says LV unfairly lapsed the policies without informing her or her family members. 
They now collectively complain that they were not sent correspondence which would have 
allowed them to reinstate the premium payments and carry on their policies until 2020.    
What happened
The policies all began in April 1970. Mrs Ms had a sum assured of £125.40 and a 22p 
premium and Mr K and Mr Ws had a £58.80 sum assured with a 5p premium. 
In July 2020, Mrs G found out that all three policies had stopped. This was after she visited 
her bank to enquire about cancelling the direct debit for Mrs Ms policy. Her bank explained 
that it would not have the authority to cancel the direct debits, so she needed to contact LV.  
After corresponding with LV, it transpired the policies ceased in 2012 after the direct debits 
were returned unpaid in late 2011. Mrs G found the process upsetting during calls with LV, 
as it asked her to enquire about Mr Ws address with her parents, who had passed away 
some years before. Mr W therefore helped her register a complaint.  
In the interim the maturity values were paid - £1,393 to Mrs M and £577 to Mr K and Mr W. 
Mrs G said she wanted to know why the policies were cancelled and why she hadnt been 
notified at the time. She told L&G that she had changed banks but she should have been 
told if the direct debits couldnt be collected.  
LV said arrears letters were sent out to the policyholders and as no responses were 
received, the policies were then made paid up. These values had now been paid to Mrs Gs 
family members. 
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought a complaint to this service. She said none of the 
letters alleged to have been sent were received by her sister or her sons. She also said LV 
had been unable to tell her where the letters were sent. Mrs G also explained how the 
process had caused her a great deal of stress, and she was unsure if any monies were 
owing to her. Finally, she felt LVs call handlers had been rude and unhelpful.  
LV then issued a formal written outcome to the complaint. It said it was not LVs 
responsibility to ensure premium payments were made; its responsibility was to inform the 
policy owners that their policies were in arrears. Its records indicated that it did so. If Mr K, 
Mr W and Mrs M didnt let Mrs G know and follow up with her to ensure premium collection 
had recommenced then this was unfortunate, but it was not the fault of LV.  
Our investigator initially thought the complaint should succeed in part. In respect of Mr K and 
Mr W, he said they had both been sent arrears letters to the addresses held on file for them 
but no reply had been received. However, in respect of Mrs Ms policy, he felt LV hadnt 
followed the same process. He therefore suggested £150 ought to be paid to Mrs G for the 
upset of discovering that a fair process hadnt been followed with Mrs Ms policy lapse.  
LV then sent further information showing Mrs M was sent the same arrears letters in 2011 
and 2012 that had been sent to Mr K and Mr W, also to the address it had on file. 
Our investigator therefore revised his view and said he felt LV hadnt done anything wrong.  
Mrs G disagreed. She said that Mr W did not live at the address stated, her parents did  but 
they had moved from that address in 2002. Mrs G explained that Mr W had lived at a 
different address for the past 46 years. 
She also said Mr Ws postcode being referenced now had an incorrect last letter. She 
maintained that her sister and sons had all confirmed they didnt receive any letters from LV 
in 2011 or 2012; and Mrs G hadnt been sent anything either. 
LV said that on 23 June 2005, Mr K had changed his address and the last letter of his 
postcode had been captured as an R not a B. It could not be sure how this occurred. But, it 
said that this didnt affect receipt of correspondence, as it had the correct house number. It 
knew this because Mr K had been sent a maturity claim form in August 2007. He had 
received, completed and returned it to LV, without changing the incorrect postcode.  
In respect of Mr W, LV said it had been given his address in May 1999, which Mrs G now 
says was his grandparents address. But LV was not at fault for that, or if his grandparents 
no longer lived there. The responsibility to update the address remained with Mr W. Further, 
in June 2005 there had been a request for the premium to be amended to a monthly 
premium as it had originally been set us as four-weekly. LV had agreed to this and wrote to 
Mr W at the address on file as confirmation. Mr W should have expected this letter, and if he 
didnt receive it then it would have expected him to contact it to update his address.  
Our investigator therefore concluded that his second view was unchanged. Though Mrs G 
had been paying the policy premiums, the lapse information was sent to Mrs M, Mr K and Mr 
W at the addresses it held for them  and LV hadnt acted wrongly in doing so.  
Mrs G said she wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She said the four-
weekly to monthly premium change had been at her request and the forms had been signed 
by the policyholders. Either way, she said the paperwork ought to have come to her, not the 
policyholders, especially since she was the payee and the direct debits had stopped.  
LV had no further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I do not believe this complaint 
should succeed. I realise this is a frustrating situation for Mrs G, but I believe the records 
show that LV hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
The policies taken out had sums assured and premiums generated based on the age of the 
policyholders when they took them out. They were then designed to grow by the addition of 
bonuses, depending on investment returns. In the event of premiums stopping, the sum assured would be reduced accordingly and the policies made paid up. 
Though the policy premiums were being paid by Mrs G, the correspondence for the policies 
was sent to the policy owners at the addresses held by LV. I dont see anything 
unreasonable in this  the policies are confirmed in the documentation as each being owned 
by Mrs M, Mr K and Mr W respectively.  
It isnt known exactly why the policy premiums stopped being taken in 2011. Mrs G says she 
changed banks at that time but her direct debits moved across. Be that as it may, LV wasnt 
able to collect the premiums for the policies and therefore payments for all three policies 
stopped after the November 2011 premium was collected.  
I realise that Mrs G feels that documentation wasnt issued but LV has been able to provide 
evidence in its records of the correspondence that was sent to Mrs M, Mr K and Mr W, the 
letters themselves and the relevant dates. They were sent warnings that without action the 
policies would lapse, and requests for payment were accordingly made.  
LV didnt receive any response, so it made all three policies paid up in February 2012 in 
accordance with the policy terms. I believe it was fair and reasonable for it to do so.  
I realise that in respect of Mr K there was an issue with his postcodes final letter being 
wrong. But, I am also of the view that correspondence to the incorrect postcode was likely 
received by Mr K. That is because he was sent a maturity claim form in 2007 to the incorrect 
postcode he received and returned it, though the policy was not surrendered at that time. 
Further, I dont believe LV is liable for updating Mr Ws address. In 1970, it was given as the 
address where Mr W and Mrs Gs parents lived and this remained unchanged. I accept that 
Mr W moved from that address some time before his policy lapsed, and that the address 
was not retained by Mrs Gs family after 2002. But LV couldnt have known this information 
and it was Mr Ws responsibility to tell LV of the correct address if he had moved.  
When the policies lapsed due to unpaid premiums, LV correctly notified the three 
policyholders. Mr W and Mrs Ms letters were correctly addressed, and the vast majority of 
postal correspondence is properly received. Mr Ks letter did have the wrong postcode, but 
Ive seen no objective evidence that LV was at fault for holding this address, notably as Mr K 
returned the maturity form without amending the error, showing that it was correctly received 
in the first place and neither party had identified that it was wrong.  
Where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely on the 
balance of probabilities. LV has evidenced the letters it sent to all three policyholders on the 
relevant dates from its system records. I find it more likely than not that they were sent. 
I also note that LV has record of one direct debit arrears letter being issued to Mrs G on 18 
February 2012. Unfortunately, it has not been able to provide a copy of the letter itself. 
Nonetheless, I believe that the record does likely show LV attempted to make Mrs G aware 
of the direct debit failure. 
In any event, I dont find it unfair that the duty to make up arrears and to notify LV if the 
policies were to be continued fell to Mrs M, Mr K and Mr W respectively. It cannot be said 
with any certainty why no actions were taken in 2011 and 2012, but on balance I am 
persuaded that LV made each of them reasonably aware that the policies would lapse. 
All three of the policies have now been surrendered and the surrender values were 
calculated based on the premiums paid and reduced sums assured. I believe that is the fair and correct process based on policies being reasonably made paid up in 2012.  I cannot ask 
LV to do anything more.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G, Mr K, Mr W 
and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman