DRN-3716108
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited (BHL). 
What happened
In December 2017, Mrs B acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from 
BHL. The car was registered in September 2016, which means it was about a year old and 
had travelled 27,170 miles when it was supplied to Mrs B. The cash price of the car was 
£11,450.65. 
In June 2022 Mrs Bs car broke down and was recovered to a third-party garage. Mrs B said 
she was told the cars engine had failed, so raised a complaint to BHL. Mrs B said she didnt 
think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
In July 2022 BHL issued their final response to her complaint. They didnt uphold it. BHL 
advised that the lack of servicing of the car contributed to the engines failure. BHL said Mrs 
B confirmed she only had it serviced once since she acquired it.
Unhappy with their decision, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service for investigation. In 
her complaint form Mrs B said that she wanted BHL to arrange and cover the cost to have 
the car collected and assessed by the manufacturer. Our investigator recommended that 
Mrs Bs complaint should not be upheld. They felt that the lack of servicing was likely to 
contribute to the failure of the engine.
Mrs B responded to our investigator to say she was told by a mechanic that the faults were 
not related to servicing, and were likely to be as a result of a known issue with that type of 
engine. As our investigators view remained unchanged, Mrs B asked that her complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BHL supplied Mrs B with a used car that had travelled 28,170 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. 
From the information provided I think its likely there was a fault with the cars engine. This is 
apparent from the breakdown recovery report issued on 26 June 2022, which stated that 
they were unable to fix the vehicle and had recovered it to a third-party garage. 
Both parties refer to an issue with the cars engine, the breakdown report doesnt confirm the 
nature of the issue nor have I seen any other evidence of a specific fault; for example in the 
form of diagnostics or an investigation report.  However, BHL have said theyd spoken with 
the third-party garage who confirmed to them there was an issue with the cars engine. 
So, having considered the car had a fault with the engine, Ive considered whether it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs B. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement, in section 4.2 it 
says: you must have the goods serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations and any applicable warranty. The servicing record and registration 
document must be kept up to date and in your possession.
Mrs B confirmed in her complaint form, and during a phone call to our investigator that shed 
had the car serviced once since she acquired it. Mrs B said that was due to the restrictions 
around Covid-19. I recognise the unprecedented challenges that were faced by consumers 
during the Covid-19 pandemic.
However, in reference to the institute for government, the restrictions around Covid-19 in 
England, started in March 2020 and lasted, with varying levels of severity, for around 12 
months. In consideration that Mrs B had use of the car for over four years before it broke 
down, Im persuaded she would have had the opportunity to service her car more than once, 
and in line with the manufacturers guidance. 
According to the manufacturers servicing recommendations, Mrs B should have arranged for 
her car to be serviced on about four occasions. 
BHL provided us with the service record for Mrs Bs car. This shows the car was serviced on 
29 September 2017 prior to being supplied to Mrs B, while it had 28,170 miles. It was 
serviced again on 14 August 2020 when it had 44,700 miles. So since being supplied the car 
it was serviced after about three years and after it had travelled 16,530 additional miles. The breakdown report confirmed the car broke down in June 2022 with a mileage of 55,803. 
So up to the point of the breakdown, Mrs B had use of the car for 22 months and had 
travelled 11,103 miles since it was last serviced in August 2020. 
As part of a cars service, essential checks are carried out on certain components to ensure 
theyre working as well as they should be. In general, a cars service can impact engine 
performance and efficiency. 
The manufacturers service recommendations for Mrs Bs car is for a service to be carried out 
every twelve months or 10,000 miles whichever is sooner. This is confirmed on the 
manufacturers website and also in BHLs final response. 
BHL didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint as they felt the lack of servicing on the car had directly 
impacted the failure of the engine. From the evidence provided, and in consideration of how 
important servicing is for a cars performance and lifespan. Im persuaded the engine failure 
was impacted by the lack of servicing.  
I recognise Mrs Bs strength of feeling that the failure was linked to a known issue with her 
brand and type of car. However, BHL advised the particular issue Mrs B raised concerns 
about, was only present in cars manufactured between 2012 and 2015. And having checked 
the manufacturers website, I couldnt see that Mrs Bs car had a recall in relation to that 
issue. 
In addition, Mrs B hasnt provided any specific evidence about why she believed the engine 
has failed, for example in the form of a diagnostics or inspection report confirming the cause 
of the engines failure.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require BHL to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman