DRN-2115512
The complaint
 Mrs H has complained about the manner in which Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled 
her claim under her property insurance policy following damage caused by a burst water 
pipe. 
What happened
 Mrs H has set out her complaint clearly, comprehensively and in chronological order and the 
full details are not therefore repeated in this decision. The key facts and events are as 
follows however.
Mrs H owns a property, which was once her family home and which is now a holiday let. She 
insured her property with Aviva. In early March 2018, Mrs H was alerted by neighbours that 
there was an escape of water at the property, caused by a burst water-pipe in the loft. This 
incident caused extensive water damage to the property, possibly over a few days, before it 
was addressed.
Mrs H stated that the team which were appointed by Aviva were extremely thorough and 
careful and carried out their work patiently until the end of April 2018. At the beginning of 
May however, the workmen discovered asbestos in the lounge wall and this led to a 10 week 
hiatus. Following the discovery of the asbestos, it also became clear that there were inherent 
damp problems and rotten ceiling joists at the property and work was again delayed while 
the logistics of carrying out each element of work were resolved.
Mrs H felt that Aviva should have taken charge of the situation and kept her better informed. 
She also considered that Avivas response was slow, that they prevaricated, did not co-
operate with damp specialists appointed by Mrs H and that the service was poor following 
departure of a key link officer from the organisation. Mrs H said that she carried out many 
visits to the property to carry out supervision that Aviva should have carried out.
Once work had been carried out, Mrs H raised questions regarding a large number of 
snagging issues including wrongly located equipment, a poor standard of workmanship and 
damage to valuable furniture which she acknowledged were beautifully restored in due 
course. 
Work to Mrs Hs property was eventually completed in relation to the insured works at the 
end of February 2020.The large majority of the financial claims were also settled, to include 
an amount towards loss of holiday-let rent, although Aviva noted that the policy technically 
only covered the policy-holder for losses in relation to confirmed bookings.
Mrs Hs claim is therefore in relation to the element of delay, trouble and upset caused by 
Avivas failings during the course of the handling of this case. Aviva acknowledged certain 
failings and initially offered compensation in the sum of £200 to Mrs H. Mrs H rejected this 
offer. The Services Investigator subsequently considered the matter and he upheld Mrs Hs 
complaint. He reached the view that a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, in the 
light of the Services published guidance in relation to compensation, would be £300.
Mrs H considered that this sum was insulting and initially requested that the recommended 
amount of £300 be paid to charity instead. Mrs H subsequently changed her mind and asked 
for a final decision on this matter and I have therefore looked at this matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Let me first of all address the issue of what compensation for distress and inconvenience is 
intended to reflect. I understand that Mrs Hs financial claims have been settled and that Mrs 
H is now seeking additional compensation to compensate her for the way in which Aviva 
handled her claim.
I can appreciate the shock and distress which Mrs H suffered when she first learnt of the 
water burst and then of the damage which this had caused to her property, a property which 
is very close to her heart. 
I can also appreciate the stress caused by the extensive remedial, repair, electrical and 
decorative work which then had to be undertaken as a result. This was made worse due to 
the frustration caused by the length of time it took to deal with all of the issues. Essentially, it 
took a period of two years and a large number of unforeseen issues had to be resolved. Mrs 
H felt that the process had ruined her life during this extended period, at a time when she 
had been suffering from ill-health.  
Whilst I completely sympathise with what Mrs H has been through as a result of the water 
burst in 2018, I cannot say that all of this distress and inconvenience has been caused by 
failings on the part of Aviva.
The discovery of asbestos often causes considerable delay to building and repair projects 
due to the serious health and safety issues which it may pose. In addition, the discovery of, 
what appears from the photographic evidence, to be quite significant inherent damp and rot 
problems at the property, will have caused considerable delay and work-scheduling issues. It 
further appears that access for the contractors was a recognised problem at this property. 
Aviva have accepted however that it could have handled matters better and that there were 
delays, issues in relation to communication and issues as to standards of workmanship in 
this case. I agree, that this matter has been on-going for longer than it should have, although 
it was certainly not a straightforward project. Even accepting that a good deal of the delay 
was not of Avivas making, some of it was. I also agree that communication had been lacking 
in certain instances and that some work had to be re-done. 
I can understand how Mrs H became frustrated by the lack of progress caused by the 
various factors. Mrs H has therefore clearly been caused some trouble and upset which is 
additional to the trouble and upset caused by the incident itself and additional to the 
unforeseen problems which were outside of Avivas control. It is also clear that when work 
has to be redone, an element of distress and inconvenience will occur.
The Services approach to compensation is explained in the published guidance on its 
website and Mrs H considers that the distress and inconvenience was substantial or severe 
in accordance with that guidance. I appreciate that in relation to an insurance claim of 
several thousands of pounds in value, the compensation levels indicated in our guidance 
may seem relatively low. I agree with the Investigator in this instance however, that for the 
additional trouble and upset caused to Mrs H by Avivas failings, £300 would be a fair and 
reasonable amount for Aviva to pay in compensation.Putting things right
 In all the circumstances, I consider that £300 in compensation would be a fair and 
reasonable sum in respect of the distress and inconvenience its service failings have caused 
Mrs H. 
My final decision
  For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require 
Aviva to pay £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience caused in this case.
Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman