DRN-3770948
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that NewDay Ltd reported missed payments to his credit file when he was
on an agreed payment holiday.
What happened
Mr O found himself in financial difficulty and struggling to meet the contractual minimum
payments required on his NewDay credit account. Mr O explained his situation to NewDay
who agreed to a three-month payment holiday on Mr Os account. However, when the
payment holiday finished, Mr O noticed that NewDay had reported some missed payments
to his credit file which because of the payment holiday he didnt feel should have been
reported. So, Mr O raised a complaint.
NewDay looked at Mr Os complaint. But they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by making the
reports to Mr Os credit file that they had, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O
wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that NewDay had made it
clear to Mr O as to when he needed to make a payment to his account following the end of
the payment holiday so as to avoid the missed payment markers that NewDay reported.
Because of this, our investigator felt that NewDay should remove the missed payment
markers from Mr Os credit file and make a payment of £100 to Mr O as compensation for
the trouble and upset that Mr O had incurred.
NewDay didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 September 2021 as follows:
On 18 October 2020, NewDay sent a monthly account statement to Mr O which 
confirmed that a minimum payment of £141.47 was due on the account which would 
be applied for by direct debit on 12 November 2020. This statement also explained 
that Mr Os account was £75.71 over the agreed credit limit, and that a repayment of 
this amount to bring the balance back within the agreed credit limit was due 
immediately.
On 23 October, shortly after receiving the account statement, Mr O made a manual 
payment of £75.51 towards the account as requested. This left a balance of £65.76 
due to be taken by direct debt on 12 November. However, when NewDay applied for 
the £65.76 on that date, the direct debit was returned because they werent sufficient 
funds in Mr Os current account to enable it to be paid.
This meant Mr Os account fell into a position of arrears at that point, and this was 
confirmed by the November 2020 account statement which explained that a minimum 
payment of £221.50 was due to be taken on 11 December 2020 and that this balance 
consisted of £155.74 as the contractual minimum monthly payment due as well as 
the £65.76 arrears on the account carried over from the previous month. This 
statement also confirmed that Mr Os account was over the agreed credit limit once 
again, this time by £115.58.
On 20 November 2020, Mr O contacted NewDay and explained he was experiencing
financial difficulties. As a result, NewDay agreed to a three-month payment holiday 
on the account during which time no fees or interest would be charged and during 
which Mr O wouldnt be required to make a payment towards his account. However, 
because of the arrears that were already present on Mr Os account, his account was 
reported to the credit reference agencies as being in a position of arrears at that time. 
And, given what Ive explained above, this seems both reasonable and accurate to 
me.
During the payment holiday, Mr O did make a payment towards his account of 
£115.58, which he made on 15 January 2021. However, as per the November 2020 
payment  issued before Mr O requested the payment holiday  the amount due on 
his account at that time was £221.50. And while the payment of £115.58 was 
sufficient to bring the overall balance of the account back within the agreed credit 
limit, a further £105.92 was required to clear the arrears that had accordingly accrued 
on the account up to that time.
Notably, when Mr O was first granted the payment holiday, NewDay sent him a letter, 
dated 20 November 2020, which explained the terms of the payment holiday. This 
included that if there was any amount due at the time the payment holiday started  
which in this case there was  that Mr O would have to pay this immediately when 
the payment holiday ended.
NewDay also sent Mr O a letter dated 5 March 2021, shortly before the payment 
holiday was due to end, which also confirmed that any payment that was due before 
the payment holiday began would be due immediately upon the payment holiday 
ending.
Finally, when the payment holiday ended on 16 March 2021, NewDay sent an 
account statement to Mr O which advised that the next payment that would be 
requested by direct debit on 12 April 2021 was £144.92, but that this included arrears 
of £105.92 that were due immediately.
Considering the above, I feel that NewDay did clearly explain to Mr O that the arrears 
on his account would become due immediately once the payment plan came to an 
end. And as such, given that Mr O didnt make a payment to clear those arrears, but 
allowed them to remain present on the account fort a month  until the direct debit 
payment scheduled for 12 April 2021 was made  it doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me that NewDay would report a missed payment for March 2021 to Mr Os credit file. 
And this is because NewDay reporting a missed payment seems to me to be an 
accurate reflection of what actually took place.
Mr O may contend that he acted in good faith by allowing the direct debit payment to 
resume following the end of the payment holiday, and I note that NewDays 
correspondence to Mr O referenced above do include the statement that if Mr O 
doesnt have a direct debit set up on his account  which Mr O did  that he should 
call NewDay to make payment.But in all three instances referenced above, NewDay specifically stated that any 
amount that had already been due on the account before the payment holiday started 
would become due immediately once the payment holiday ended. These included the 
16 March account statement, which confirmed both that the £105.92 arrears were 
due immediately and that a direct debit payment wouldnt be attempted for a further 
month. As such, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr O to have contacted NewDay 
immediately and to have cleared those arrears if he was able to do so.
Like all credit providers, NewDay have an obligation to make accurate reports to the 
credit reference agencies. In this instance, while I can appreciate how Mr O might not 
like to have missed payments reported to his credit file, it seems to me that the 
missed payment reports that NewDay have made to Mr Os credit file are accurate. 
And as per the above, Im also satisfied that NewDay did explain the need to 
immediately clear the arrears on the account once the payment holiday ended to    
Mr O.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that NewDay have acted unfairly 
towards Mr O as he feels is that case here, and it follows from this that my 
provisional decision will be that I will not be upholding this complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr O and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I issued a final 
decision. 
Neither Mr O or NewDay responded to my provisional decision, and so I see no reason not 
to issue a final decision on the same basis as that explained above. And I confirm that my 
final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman