DRN-2240965
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund two disputed 
transactions.
Both transactions were completed by Mr S, one on his current account which is held jointly 
with Mrs K and the other on a credit card held in Mr Ss sole name. For simplicity, Ill refer to 
Mr S throughout. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr S was looking online for a flight and was contacted by someone who said 
they were a travel agent working for a travel company. They provided Mr S with the name of 
a genuine travel company that provides access to discounted flights, hotels etc. They 
convinced Mr S to purchase his flight ticket from them, using his debit card on his Santander 
account. Mr S paid £480 and received a flight ticket confirmation by email.
In August 2019 Mr S paid £500 to the same travel agent this time on his Santander credit 
card for another ticket  which he received by email again. Shortly after Mr S checked the 
tickets with the airline named as the flight provider and became aware that the tickets didnt 
exist and that hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr S contacted Santander asking them to refund him for both payments. Santander declined 
to refund either payment saying that a One Time Passcode (OTP) was sent to Mr Ss phone 
with each payment, and by using that passcode he authorised the payments. And while they 
raised a chargeback it wasnt successful as the funds had gone to a third party money 
transfer service and not to the merchant directly.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
 
A representative for Mr S told us that Mr S was vulnerable due to his age and as English 
isnt his first language, and that Santander hadnt taken that into account.
 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they felt the 
payments werent unusual enough in appearance to have warranted any further checks 
being done by Santander before processing them. And that even if Santander had contacted 
the third party money transfer service as soon as they were aware of the scam, its unlikely 
they wouldve been able to recover the funds for Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
 
Mr S feels that Santander shouldve protected him and stopped him from making these 
payments or shouldve got his money back for him as he was genuinely scammed.
Its clear that Mr S was the victim of a sophisticated scam. A fraudster contacted him using 
the information of a genuine company who provides access to flights and holiday bookings. 
But the fact that Mr S was genuinely the victim of a scam doesnt mean that Santander is 
automatically responsible for returning Mr Ss money to him.
Santander does have a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate a customer is at risk of fraud. And, in some circumstances, make 
additional checks before processing a payment, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr S used his debit and credit cards to make the 
transactions and completed the One Time Passcode authentication process to authorise the 
payments. 
From what Ive seen the transactions didnt stand out as being particularly unusual or out of 
character based on Mr Ss previous account use for his current account or his credit card.
 
Mr S had made card payments on his current account in previous months for around the 
same amount or slightly higher than the amount of the disputed transaction. And at least one 
was to another travel company also paid for with his debit card and for a very similar 
amount. Also, these two payments were made on two separate accounts, just over a month 
apart and didnt significantly alter the balances on the accounts. While I appreciate that the 
credit card was new, and this was the first transaction completed on it  that by itself isnt 
enough for me to fairly say Santander shouldve undertaken more checks.
Santander cant be reasonably expected to check all payments made by customers, and in 
this case Im not persuaded there was enough about these two payments that shouldve 
suggested to Santander that Mr S mayve been a victim of a scam. I appreciate that Mr S 
has told us he was particularly vulnerable due to his age and English not being his first 
language. But it appears that Mr S has used similar companies previously to book travel and 
paid by debit card, so I cant see that in this situation Santander shouldve taken any 
additional steps prior to processing these payments for Mr S.
Ive also thought about whether Santander did enough to try and retrieve the funds for Mr S 
once they were made aware of the scam.
 
From what Ive seen Mr S didnt contact Santander until five days after hed made the 
second payment to tell them hed been a victim of a scam. Santander contacted the third 
party money transfer service requesting the return of any funds they still held. Unfortunately 
Santander didnt get a response, and they are reliant on the other company to respond. But 
based on what Ive seen previously I think its unlikely that any funds wouldve still been held 
five days after they were sent, as usually fraudsters will withdraw the funds immediately as 
theyre aware that the fraud could be identified and reported at any time.I also considered Santanders actions around the chargeback. There are specific 
chargeback reasons that Santander would be required to use, and if they think theyll be 
successful theyll submit the claim. But they arent obligated to raise or pursue a chargeback 
if they dont think they have a reasonable chance of success, or if they dont think it meets 
the requirements of a chargeback claim under the schemes rules. Based on what Ive seen I 
dont think Santander has acted unreasonably in not pursuing a chargeback for Mr S in 
these circumstances.
 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has done what I would expect in trying to recover the 
funds for Mr S. And although I appreciate that Mr S will be very disappointed, I wont be 
asking Santander to refund him for either of the payments he made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman