DRN-4353370
The complaint
Mr Is complaint is about a claim he made on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr I is unhappy about how Aviva handled this claim.
All references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr I made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim in 
respect of his property. After seeking further information, Aviva appointed a firm of Solicitors 
to consider the claim in accordance with the policy terms.
The Solicitor expressed doubts about Mr Is claim being proportionate to pursue so Aviva 
funded the appointment of a Barrister to advise on the likely sums hed recover if the claim 
was pursued. The Barrister advised the claim wasnt proportionate to pursue and suggested 
Aviva might want to consider offering him the likely amount he would recover if he litigated 
the matter, which amounted to £1,000 on the higher end of the scale. Aviva agreed and 
made the offer to Mr I accordingly. Mr I wasnt happy with this. He thought that Aviva had 
spent more on lawyers fees than was being offered to him and that it was possible he could 
recover more if the claim was pursued.
Mr I was also unhappy with the level of service he received from Aviva. He referred to delays 
and poor claims handling generally. Aviva accepted that there were some delays in dealing 
with his claim, so offered Mr I £100 for the distress and inconvenience this would have 
caused him.
Our investigator considered Mr Is complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr I 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why below.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding and is 
proportionate to pursue. Mr Is policy is no exception. That means his claims needed to have 
over 51% prospects of succeeding in order for Aviva to cover them and be proportionate to 
pursue. 
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that the amount, they
might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. The Solicitors advice was that although the 
claim appeared to have reasonable prospects of success, it was unlikely to be proportionate 
to pursue. 
Because the Solicitor didnt quantify the likely value Mr I could recover if the claim was 
funded to conclusion, Aviva authorised the Solicitor to instruct a Barrister to do this. The 
Barrister advised that it was less likely than not that Mr I would recover more than £1,000. 
Given the costs of the claim were likely to run to considerably more than that, Aviva offered 
Mr I £1,000 in settlement of his claim. But Mr I didnt accept this. He thought Aviva had spent 
this amount on instructing the Barrister alone, so their offer felt too low. He also felt the offer 
didnt take into account the time it took Aviva to reach this conclusion.
Im satisfied that the Solicitor and the Barrister were experienced in the area of law Mr I was 
asking for help with and theres nothing that suggests their advice was based on factual 
mistakes. I appreciate Mr I feels the Tribunal he wanted to bring his claim in has a wide remit 
and can make larger settlements than the amount the Barrister advised he could expect to 
achieve at trial- but that doesnt mean that Aviva wasnt entitled to rely on the advice they 
received. In the absence of a contrary legal opinion from a legal professional of equal 
standing and experience to the Barrister instructed by Aviva, I cant say Aviva did something 
wrong by declining to cover his claim. Aviva wasnt obliged to offer a payment to Mr I in this 
case but did so with a view to bringing matters to a proportionate end. It is of course Mr Is 
prerogative to decline that offer but that doesnt mean Aviva need to pursue the matter 
further on his behalf.
Ive taken on board Mr Is comments about the level of legal costs Aviva has spent on both 
the Solicitor and the Barrister and the fact that these likely outweigh the offer he was made, 
which he says is unfair. As the investigator explained, the level of legal costs Aviva might 
have spent on establishing the merits and proportionality of a claim arent connected to an 
offer to settle it.  And as I said above, Aviva werent obliged to offer to settle Mr Is claim at 
all. They could have simply declined to cover it without doing so.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, Ive reviewed the delays and poor service Mr I has 
referred to in Avivas handling of his claim. They are not significant, such that they wouldve 
impacted negatively on his claim or him, other than causing some distress and 
inconvenience. For that reason, I agree that the sum of £100 offered by Aviva is reasonable 
in the circumstances.
If Mr I wishes to now accept Avivas offer to settle his claim of £1000 as well as the 
compensation payment of £100, he should contact Aviva directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman