DRN-2735450
The complaint
Mr K complains that Credit Karma UK Limited has included information about his brother on 
his credit report. 
What happened
Mr K uses Credit Karma to view data which a credit reference agency (CRA) that I will call 
T holds on him. Mr K discovered that his credit report contained information about his 
brother.
Credit Karma apologised for the error and said that it had locked Mr Ks account. After this 
service became involved, Credit Karma offered £100 compensation. The investigator 
thought that Credit Karmas offer was reasonable, but Mr K didnt agree.
Mr K says that the fact that his brothers data appeared on his credit report has negatively 
affected his credit score. Mr K is concerned that other people with similar names might also 
have access to his data. Mr K says that he has wasted his time for many months. He doesnt 
think £100 is enough for such a big data breach. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ks sense of anxiety about his data. It mustve been very concerning to see 
his brothers data when he viewed his credit report through Credit Karma. 
I should explain that this service doesnt supervise, regulate or discipline the businesses that 
we cover. My role is not to punish or penalise businesses for the way in they conduct their 
business  thats the role of the regulator  in this case the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO). 
My role is to look at the problem faced by the consumer and in this case, see if Credit Karma 
has done anything wrong. If it has, we try and put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation if 
we think its fair and reasonable.
Credit Karma accepts that it made a mistake. Mr Ks brothers data shouldnt have appeared 
on his report. It seems likely that it happened due to the similarity between their names.
Credit Karma has confirmed that the problem with Mr Ks brothers data appearing on its 
report is limited to Credit Karma and not T. As any prospective lender would use a CRA and 
not Credit Karma to carry out checks, I cant say that the problem with Credit Karma would 
impact on a lenders decision-making process. The same goes for Mr Ks credit score as this 
is calculated by T, not Credit Karma. So, Mr Ks score with T shouldnt be affected by his 
brothers data appearing on the report that Credit Karma provided. 
T told Mr K that his brothers data doesnt appear on his credit report and offered to send him 
a complimentary copy of his report to confirm this. If Mr K hasnt already done so, it seems 
like a good idea to request this report to double-check. 
As the investigator has told Mr K, the data breach really relates to his brother as there has 
been no suggestion that Mr Ks data appears on his brothers credit file. Credit Karma says 
that Mr Ks data doesnt appear on anybody elses report. I know that Mr K is concerned 
about this but without evidence that this has happened, I cant require Credit Karma to pay 
more or take further steps. If Mr K remains concerned about his data appearing elsewhere, 
he can raise his concerns with the ICO. And if Mr K finds evidence of a breach by Credit 
Karma in the future, he can raise a fresh complaint.
As Im not persuaded that Credit Karmas mistake has affected Mr Ks ability to obtain credit, 
I dont consider that hes suffered a financial loss. This service awards relatively modest 
awards for trouble and upset. So, putting everything together, I think what Credit Karma has 
offered is fair and reasonable.
Credit Karma still hasnt resolved the problem with Mr Ks credit file, so it remains locked. If 
this causes Mr K inconvenience in the future, I dont see why he couldnt bring a fresh 
complaint but for the moment, I find that £100 is enough to put matters right.
Putting things right
Credit Karma UK Limited should pay Mr K £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Credit Karma UK Limited to pay £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman