DRN-1623711
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Avant Credit of UK, LLC (trading as Avant Credit) provided an 
unaffordable loan to him in June 2017. Hes said he was already overstretched with debt 
commitments at this time and so this loan was affordable.
Background
Mr M approached Avant Credit for a loan in June 2017. Mr M was provided with a loan of 
£8,170.00 (although administrative fees of £430 were added to the loan balance) and this 
was to be repaid over 36 monthly instalments of £313.42.
One of our adjudicators looked at what Avant Credit and Mr M said. She thought that it was 
unfair for Avant Credit to have provided this loan to Mr M. Avant Credit disagreed and as it 
did so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
The regulatory framework
Avant Credit lent to Mr M while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
 
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
 
This sets out the rules which apply to providers of consumer credit like Avant Credit.     
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from 
the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of 
the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must consider:a. the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which 
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
b. the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. 
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability.
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes on to say:
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
a. without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
b. over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period; andc. out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
a. it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
  
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
If I determine that Avant Credit didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Avant Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations in place when Avant Credit lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay his loan in 
a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The affordability check had to be borrower-focused  so Avant Credit had to think about 
whether Mr M would be able to repay the loan sustainably. In practice this meant that Avant 
Credit had to have enough in order to be able to reasonably conclude that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Avant Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Avant Credits checks reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought about what Avant Credit has said, I dont think that its checks did go 
far enough. Id like to explain why I think that this is the case.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. 
Mr Ms loan required him to make payments of around £320 for three years. At this point, it 
might be helpful for me to explain that bearing in mind Avant Credits regulatory obligations 
as well as good industry practice, a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need 
for verification, is only really likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in circumstances 
where the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial situation is stable 
and they will be indebted for a relatively short period.
But, in circumstances  such as here - where the borrower is being expected to maintain 
payments for a longer period of time, the cost of the credit is high and the purpose of the 
loan is to consolidate existing debt, I think that any affordability assessment needs to be more detailed and contain a greater degree of verification and scrutiny, in order for it to be 
fair, reasonable and proportionate.
Mr M was asked for details of income and was asked to provide a payslip to verify this. 
Avant Credit also carried out a credit search on Mr M. And Avant Credits credit search 
flagged up that Mr M already had a significant amount of existing debt  in the region of 
£35,000.00. But instead of asking Mr M what he was paying towards these existing 
commitments, Avant Credit instead decided to estimate that Mr M was paying £1,800 a 
month towards them even though he declared total monthly expenses of £1,650. The 
application also suggested that Mr M was renting but that he paid £0 towards rent or a 
mortgage.
I also think Avant Credit ought to have taken steps to establish which debts, if any, Mr M 
would actually be consolidating with this loan. By failing to do so, Avant Credit ran the risk of 
increasing Mr Ms debts unsustainably. Id also question how could it possibly have worked 
out what Mr Ms disposable income would be going forward without having any idea of which 
credit commitments hed still be left with after he was given this loan.
Taking all of this into account, I think that Avant Credit needed to get a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ms financial position. So as well as asking Mr M about the details of his 
income and expenditure, I think that Avant Credit needed to take steps to verify what it was 
being told by Mr M and scrutinise the information received.
As theres no evidence that Avant Credit did properly scrutinise the information on the credit 
check, the purpose of the loan or the information it obtained from Mr M, I dont think it 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Avant Credit that Mr M would 
have been unable to sustainably repay the loan?
As proportionate checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would have told Avant Credit that it was unfair to offer this loan to Mr M.
Mr M has provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
the loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve 
shown up in any checks Avant Credit mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything 
else from Avant Credit showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly 
fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ms 
financial circumstances were likely to have been at the time.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that, in my view, Avant Credit was required 
to establish whether Mr M could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether 
the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this could be an indication that a consumer 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And, in my view, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided in light of this.
The information Ive been provided with shows Mr M had taken on significant amounts of 
new debt in the months leading up to this loan. Mr M was repeatedly taking out short-term 
loans and was barely able to make the minimum payment on his existing commitments.
So all of the information Ive seen shows that Mr M was already in a difficult financial 
position. And, in these circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would have alerted Avant Credit to the fact that Mr M was already struggling financially and 
so he simply wasnt able to make the payments to this loan without experiencing financial 
difficulty and/or borrowing further. And so it follows that he wasnt in any sort of financial 
position to sustainably make the repayments to this loan.     
Did Avant Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Avant Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some 
other way. 
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
three of this decision, I think that Avant Credit unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr M with 
this loan because it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its more 
likely than not that such checks wouldve shown Avant Credit that Mr M wouldnt be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. So Avant Credit shouldnt have provided the loan to Mr M.
As Mr M ended up paying (or is being expected to pay) interest and charges on a loan 
proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown hed be unable to sustainably 
repay, I think that he lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong. So Avant Credit 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive carefully thought about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. Avant Credit 
should ensure that Mr M pays back no more than the amount he was originally lent. I 
understand that the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan was sold to a third party debt 
purchaser. So Avant Credit should either:
buy back the debt from the third party; AND
 
remove all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ms loan from the outset by either 
itself or the third party debt purchaser. So Avant Credit need to reduce Mr Ms 
starting balance to the amount that he was lent;
 
the payments Mr M has already made should then be applied to the new starting 
balance;
 
Avant Credit should then contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the 
remaining balance
OR
 
make a payment to the third party debt purchaser to ensure that the debt is reduced 
by the amount of all interest and charges applied to the loan from the outset.
 Whichever method Avant Credit chooses to use, it needs to make sure that the total Mr M 
has to pay (to it and/or the third party debt purchaser) doesnt exceed the £8,170.00 he 
actually received when he was provided with this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Avant Credit of UK, LLC 
(trading as Avant Credit) should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020. 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman