DRN-4240061
The complaint
Mr I complains that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) declined a claim he made on his 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr I purchased a Rolex watch from a high street store. He also purchased 
an insurance policy to cover the watch for such things as loss and damage; the policy cost 
around £1,000.
In October 2022 he reported the watch stolen to the store he purchased it from. He also 
reported it to the police who gave him a crime reference number.
Mr I says his insurance claim was declined. Even though he was told he was covered for 
accidental damage, loss, and theft. Mr I says he is out of pocket for over £7,000 for the 
watch, plus over £1,000 for the insurance policy. 
Mr I wants Chubb to refund the policy premiums and to replace the watch. Because Mr I 
wasnt happy he complained. 
Chubb said when Mr I reported the watch stolen he completed a claim form. And in the claim 
form he said his, ex-wife took the watch without consent along with other personal 
belongings. Chubb said the policy doesnt cover the disappearance of the insured item in 
circumstances that do not involve theft. The policy also doesnt cover theft from a building, 
unless the building is occupied or secured, and the insured item is stolen by someone who 
has entered the building unlawfully. Chubb said the claim form was signed by Mr I to declare 
he understood that the answers to the questions would be the basis of consideration for the 
claim. So Mr Is complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr I referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things for him 
but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest anyone 
entered the building unlawfully, and so Chubb had declined the claim correctly and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr I didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im genuinely sorry that Mr I has suffered this loss. I cant imagine how upsetting it 
would have been for him to find his watch was missing. And I can see hes in a difficult 
position.
Mr Is jewellery insurance policy covers loss or damage arising from certain situations 
including, but not limited to, theft. 
My role isnt to determine whether or not a theft occurred. My role here is to look at whether 
Chubbs declination of the claim was fair and in line with the terms of the policy. I have read 
the policy terms to understand the cover provided 
The relevant clause in the terms is in the section what is not covered by this policy, theft: 
from a building (unless the building is occupied or secured, and your insured item is stolen 
by someone who has entered the building unlawfully).
Theft is defined as, your insured item being taken unlawfully from you or from anyone using 
or storing your insured item with your permission. 
I have considered whether there was an insured event which would be covered under the 
policy. In doing so Ive started from the general principle that where a policyholder makes a 
claim for loss, the onus in the first instance is for them to show theres been an insured 
event. In this case, Mr I needs to show that, on balance, a theft has occurred. Since Chubb 
isnt satisfied hes done so, it declined the claim. 
Mr Is evidence at the time the claim was reported was that, following a domestic dispute, he 
left his house on 31 January 2022 and didnt return.  His watch and various other high value 
items went missing from his home, where his ex-wife still lived, sometime between January 
2022 and October 2022. 
In order for Mr I to receive a payment under the policy he will need to show that the house 
was entered unlawfully. But there is nothing to substantiate that. It isnt definitively known if 
the watch was stolen, by whom, or when this happened. And in the absence of any evidence 
I cant say its fair to ask Chubb to pay the claim. And I cant say its unreasonable for Chubb 
to decline the claim on that basis. 
The policy also says it doesnt cover the item in certain circumstances, specifically, the 
disappearance of your insured item in circumstances that do not involve theft and you are 
unable to recover it. 
Mr I left his house in January 2022 and the theft wasnt reported until October 2022. I 
understand the circumstances Mr I was in at the time, and I dont doubt his honesty and 
sincerity in reporting what happened. But it is for the person making the claim to show an 
insured event has occurred and I havent seen anything that persuades me that it did.
The information provided to Chubb to support the claim has been limited. As Mr I didnt 
return home between January 2022 and October 2022 he has no clear account of what 
happened and when. Whilst Mr I reported the matter to the police, from what Ive seen, no 
action was pursued by them. 
Mr I insists he didnt tell the insurer his ex-wife took the watch at the outset of the claim. But 
whether he did or didnt isnt the issue here. The issue is there is no evidence an insured 
event has taken place. 
Im very sorry that Mr I no longer has his watch. I know it was expensive and also had 
sentimental value. So I appreciate how disappointed he will be by my decision. But from 
what Ive seen, he hasnt shown that, on balance, a theft occurred. I dont think it was unfair 
for Chubb to conclude there is insufficient evidence to show an insured event took place. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman