DRN-3885776
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B have complained about the service provided by One Call Insurance Services 
Limited (One Call) in arranging a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr B had been arranging purchase of a home insurance policy through their 
insurance broker, One Call. The policy was due to renew automatically in July 2022 and Mrs 
and Mr B contacted One Call before the renewal date to clarify certain matters. This query 
needed to be referred to the underwriter. One Call didnt act on this request and, at renewal 
the underwriter made the decision not to offer cover. One Call recognised service failings 
and offered compensation to Mrs and Mr B in the total sum of £150.
Mrs and Mr B were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and referred it to this 
service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that One Call 
acknowledged certain mistakes, however, he considered that One Calls offer of £150 was 
fair. The investigator noted that Mrs and Mr B wanted further compensation to reflect the 
difference between the price of the policy originally quoted and the policy they ultimately 
purchased. He thought that there was no guarantee that Mrs and Mr B would have 
purchased the policy if the underwriting referral answer wasnt favourable to them. As to the 
ongoing cost difference, he considered that new premiums applied every year in any event.
Mrs and Mr B remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. In the circumstances, the 
matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As One Call has acknowledged its service failings, the key issue for me to determine is 
whether the £150 compensation provideed a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs and Mr Bs 
complaint. I consider that it does, and Ill explain why.
Turning to the parties submissions, Mrs & Mr B believed theyd been provided with a poor 
service by One Call and that the £150 compensation was inadequate. Mrs B described the 
background events. She said shed called One Call and achieved a reduction in the quoted 
price but asked for clarification only on one aspect. She was adamant that this wouldnt have 
affected the quoted price or her acceptance of the policy. The agent was to call her back but 
failed to do so. She followed up the query, but the question hadnt been referred to the 
underwriter as promised, and the policy had lapsed. 
Mrs and Mr B said that the agreed price had been around £250 and then jumped up to over 
£500. They obtained a policy elsewhere to ensure cover and aimed to sort the problem in 
the cooling off period only to find the renewal information was incorrect which stated 9+ 
years no claim when I had actually had an escape of water in 2020, Mrs B said that she 
didnt recall the two-year-old claim until advised by the new insurance company. Mrs and Mr 
B considered that One Call had created a detriment which they wanted it to remedy by 
honouring the agreed price. As well as the additional cost, Mrs B thought that One Call had 
caused a slight against me and were obstructive when trying to raise the complaint. She 
thought that an impression had been given by One Call that I lied to the new insurer. Mrs B 
said that One Call paid £75 for quoting the incorrect no claims discount and a £75 goodwill 
payment due to its errors in not referring the query to the underwriter and reverting to Mrs B.
In summary, Mrs and Mr B thought that £150 didnt adequately cover the detriment caused 
in the current year and ongoing years. Mrs B said that shed paid well over £150 extra for her 
new policy but with reduced cover. Mrs and Mr B wished to be put back in the position they 
would have been in if One Call had acted as it should have. They considered that 
appropriate recompense would be the difference in cost between the original and the current 
policy, together with the on-going cost difference. They also expected further compensation 
for the service errors and failure to maintain accurate records. Finally, they expected 
compensation for the many hours wasted in dealing with the matter as well as the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
Turning to One Calls submissions, it recognised its errors, apologised to Mrs and Mrs B, 
and felt the compensation fairly recognised this. It also accepted that it had missed the point 
in relation to the renewal documents reference to 9 claim-free years, despite a claim having 
been made in 2020. It was looking into how this occurred but couldnt immediately explain 
the error. It said that the original quote for approximately £250 was based on the insurer 
accepting the cover at that time and that even if Mrs and Mr Bs query had been immediately 
referred, it wasnt guaranteed that the insurer would have offered the same price after 
checking the details. It said that the issue which Mrs and Mr B had wanted to check was 
whether the underwriter covered accidental damage for phones or laptops as standard or 
whether they would need to look to offer additional cover on such items. They also wished to 
check any exclusions for such items as this may increase the premium.
Ive carefully considered each point of complaint made my Mrs and Mr B. Firstly, they 
complained that One Call had made an error by not contacting the underwriter for 
clarification of certain matters as requested and also by not phoning Mrs and Mr B back. 
These errors were fully accepted by One Call. Under the services guidelines for 
compensatory awards, service errors of this nature would ordinarily attract a modest award 
of compensation and an apology. Im satisfied that One Call apologised appropriately for its 
errors and that compensation of £75 for this element would be at the level which this service 
would expect for such administrative errors.
Mrs and Mr B have also stated that One Call had made an error in providing a quote 
referencing 9 years no claims. I note that One Call has been unable to explain this error. 
Nevertheless, responsibility falls to both parties to ensure that information upon which a 
quote is based is accurate and Mrs B candidly accepted that shed forgotten about this 
claim. Ive noted that One Calls correspondence included the usual advice for customers 
that its important to read all information contained in a renewal invitation to check that its 
accurate and up to date. Again, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that compensation of £75 
for this element would be at a level which this service would expect to be paid in this respect.
Mrs and Mr B also considered that One Call should refund the difference in cost between the 
price they were quoted and what they paid, as well as for the on-going cost difference. Ive 
no reason to doubt that Mrs and Mr B would have accepted the policy, whatever the answer 
to the point of clarification. However, once a dialogue is commenced by policyholders or their 
brokers with an underwriter, that dialogue will often elicit further information and affect the 
quote. My decision on this element of the claim, based on the available evidence and on the 
balance of probabilities, It is likely that the price would have changed in any event following Mrs and Mr Bs request for clarification. This would be the case even if One Call had 
diligently pursued Mrs and Mr Bs request and provided correct details of the previous claim. 
The only way to have guaranteed price would have been for Mrs and Mr B to have accepted 
the quote on the basis on which it was given, with the no claims discount which was then 
applied. 
As for the on-going cost difference, underwriters will review criteria and risk on an annual 
basis, and it is unlikely that insurance premiums remain static. As above, Ive concluded that 
it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for One Call to decline to pay for the difference in cost in 
2022. Furthermore, it wouldnt be appropriate to award compensation for any assumed on-
going cost difference as the matter would be revisited annually.
Finally, Mrs and Mr B consider that theres an on-going element to One Calls failure and 
inaccurate records and that the impact of this hasnt been considered. Ive made a finding 
above as to policies being revisited on an annual basis and prices cant be guaranteed. As to 
the impact of failure to record the correct no claims period, Im satisfied that correcting any 
inaccuracy would be necessary and shouldnt be seen as an on-going detriment. If a policy 
is taken out based on incorrect information, it can invalidate cover and its clearly in the 
interests of all to ensure that such errors are identified and corrected. As to being a slight on 
Mrs Bs honesty and integrity, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that any underwriter had 
taken such a view. I dont consider that this therefore merits any further award of 
compensation.
In conclusion, whilst I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mrs and Mr 
B, Im satisfied that the offer of £150 compensation by One Call represents a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation in response to the complaint about its service failings. 
Our guidance on awards of compensation for distress and inconvenience typically expects 
modest compensation to be paid where there has been more than one administrative error 
and where stress and disappointment has been caused or where expectations have not 
been met as in this case. I conclude that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome Mrs 
and Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint about One Call 
Insurance Services Limited and I dont require it to do anything else in response other than 
to ensure that the compensation sum of £150 has been received by Mrs and Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman