DRN-2394214
The complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr I took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time, he took out a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP), which included PPI cover.
Mr I paid a monthly premium for the PPI, which covered his monthly mortgage payments 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. The PPI would have paid Mr Is monthly 
mortgage payments for up to 24 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Is case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time that's passed, Halifax no longer has copies of all the documents that Mr I 
signed when he took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think that's surprising or 
unreasonable, given that the sale took place so many years ago.
Ive taken into account what we know about how Halifax sold these policies around this 
time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance, I'm satisfied that the 
paperwork would have made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Mr I would have 
been asked which elements of the TMPP he wanted to take, after discussion with 
Halifax. And Im satisfied hed have been asked for his consent to the cover.
So with the limited information I have available to me I think its most likely that Mr I knew 
the policy was optional, and that he agreed to take it, knowing he had a choice. But I can 
understand how he may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Halifax says it would have recommended the PPI to Mr I. And from what weve seen of 
the way these policies were sold at the time, I think thats likely to be right. This means it 
had a responsibility to check that it was suitable for him. And it looks as if it was suitable, 
based on what I've seen of Mr Is circumstances at the time.
Mr I's told us hed have been entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if hed been off sick. But the policy would have paid out for up to 
24 months per successful claim. Thats significantly longer than hed have been entitled 
to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if he'd made a successful 
claim for unemployment. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Mr I received from his employer. So he could have used those to meet other 
day-to-day expenses.
I acknowledge that Mr Is told us that he wouldnt have been affected by redundancy. He 
says hed have been put into a redeployment pool before any redundancies would have 
been made. And he says its never happened. But I think its unlikely that he could have 
guaranteed that hed never be made redundant. Ive also borne in mind that the 
mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr Is property, 
and the consequences of not keeping up with his mortgage payments could have been 
serious. So I think the PPI would have given him valuable peace of mind.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr I chose to take the 
PPI. So I think he wanted this type of cover, even if hes forgotten this now, so many 
years later. And based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr I 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, unusual 
working arrangements or existing medical conditions). 
It may be that Halifax could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr I 
couldnt afford it. And since he was paying for the cover monthly, he could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost if his circumstances changed, or if he decided 
he no longer wanted it.
So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
policy would have put Mr I off taking it out. This means I dont find that the PPI was mis-
sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman