DRN-2906486
The complaint
Mr S complains on behalf of his brother Mr AS that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) have 
rejected a cheque three times and not communicated the reasons why.   
 
What happened
Mr S and his wife Mrs S hold power of attorney (POA) for his brother Mr AS who is in a care 
home. 
Mr ASs flat was sold and in December 2020 the proceeds of the sale were paid into Mr ASs 
BOS account. Mr S then transferred it to a BOS savings account. 
Mr and Mrs S opened an account with a building society for Mr AS and on 29 December 
they paid in a cheque from the BOS current account for the value of the house sale. The 
cheque was returned unpaid. 
BOS customer services advised that the cheque was returned because the funds were not in 
the current account when it was presented. They advised Mr and Mrs S to represent the 
cheque. 
On 4 January the cheque was presented again and was again returned unpaid. On this 
occasion they were advised it had been returned because Mrs S did not have POA. She was 
told to take the POA down to the local branch. 
On 6 January the cheque was presented for a third time and again was returned unpaid.  On 
this occasion BOS advised Mr S it was because the cheque was from an old cheque book. 
They also advised they did not hold a copy of Mr Ss signature on the mandate. 
On 7 January Mr S went into branch and performed an electronic transfer of the money 
instead.  
Mr S complained to BOS about what had happened. In particular he complained that BOS 
didnt notify him of the reason the cheque was returned the first time. He also queried what 
makes a cheque out of date, why they had different advice from different members of staff 
and why they didnt hold his signature when he had been POA for many years. 
On 9 February 2021 BOS issued a final response.  They agreed that Mr S had not been 
given the correct advice and paid him £75 compensation. They clarified that the cheque was 
returned on the first occasion because of insufficient funds and on the second occasion 
because it was flagged for an extra security check due to the age of the cheque book. BOS 
agreed that they should have contacted Mr S after the second time the cheque was returned 
to get authorisation but didnt. They said that the POA had been registered with them since 
2013 but it didnt appear that there was a signature registered on the mandate for Mr S.  
After further queries raised by Mrs S, BOS also clarified that Mr S was the only POA listed 
on the account and that the signature issue was not picked up on a previous occasion in 
2018 because the systems for checking were different then and the cheque was validated in 
branch. There is now an automated process for cheques, and because of the rise in fraud, 
additional checks are in place. Thats why the cheque was flagged on this occasion. 
Mr and Mrs S were still unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. They 
asked a number of questions and raised some complaints. These were:
Why was Mrs S not on the account when she is on the POA?
If she wasnt authorised why did they discuss the account with her on the phone?
Why was cheque book issued if there was no mandate?
Why were they not informed when the cheque bounced?
Why was the cheque bounced?
Why was Mr AS sent a letter to his care home?
Why did a previous cheque in 2018 not bounce?
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She thought that BOS had provided 
explanations for each of the queries raised, and that £75 was sufficient to cover the distress 
and inconvenience caused.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. Mr S 
was not satisfied about the explanation of why the cheque was returned unpaid.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I can see from the bank statements provided that on the first occasion the cheque was 
presented it was returned because of insufficient funds, and so BOS havent done anything 
wrong there. BOS have told us that the second and third time it was returned was because 
their processes flagged the cheque as needing extra security checks because of the age of 
the cheque book and there being no signature on the mandate they held. 
It is important that all financial institutions take fraud prevention measures, particularly in 
relation to vulnerable customers, and it is up to the individual bank to decide which 
processes they want to perform extra checks on. BOS have followed their own process 
correctly in this situation, and I am unable to interfere with or comment on the process as the 
decision about when to undertake checks is a business decision.
 
However, I can look at whether BOS communicated with Mr S properly and assisted him in 
sorting the issue out. 
I consider that this is where BOS fell short of providing a reasonable standard of service. 
They failed twice to provide the right information to Mr S about the rejected cheque which 
resulted in a few days delay in getting the funds cleared into the building society account and 
therefore caused additional inconvenience for Mr AS. BOS have accepted that their 
communication was less than should be expected and offered £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered. 
I find that this offer of £75 is sufficient. The inconvenience was only for a few days and was 
able to be resolved by a bank transfer in the end. I appreciate that it will have been 
frustrating to be given incorrect information and to have needlessly presented the cheque 
twice, but I think £75 is adequate compensation for this. There are other questions that have been raised in the complaint which Mr S does not feel 
that BOS have answered. However, I am satisfied from the documents that I have seen that 
they have provided a response to these issues where appropriate as follows:
BOS have advised that they did not retain a copy of the original POA, but the account notes 
did say it had been seen, and authorised Mr S to act as a POA. Mrs S is not mentioned in 
the account notes, and in the absence of the original document BOS were not authorised to 
take instructions from her in relation to the account. 
BOS havent responded to why they discussed the account with Mrs S on the phone, but 
whether there is a breach of GDPR would be a question for BOS to consider and report to 
the Information Commissioners Office if appropriate. I think that given that Mrs S did actually 
have POA in this situation, even though BOS didnt have it on record, this is unlikely to be 
considered a data breach.   
Cheque books are issued automatically, and as Mr S is authorised as having POA, there 
was no reason not to issue a cheque book. The cheque was flagged correctly for extra 
checks because of the size of it, and there being no signature on the mandate. These 
checks are part of the banks process and not specific to Mr S. 
BOS have explained the reasons why the cheque was returned and apologised and 
compensated for the poor information. They have also explained the change in processes 
since 2018 which explains why this cheque was flagged when a previous one wasnt.   
Mr S has expressed concern that BOS wrote to Mr AS at his care home. But Ive been 
unable to consider this as part of this complaint because it was not raised in Mr Ss initial 
complaint to BOS, or addressed in their final response.  
I understand that the £75 payment offered by BOS has already been paid into the account, 
and as I think this is sufficient, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc do not need to do 
anything further.     
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman