DRN-3081127
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) has unfairly 
declined her claim. 
What happened
Mrs R has a personal sick pay policy through LV which pays a benefit if she is too unwell to 
work. 
At the beginning of 2020, Mrs R was involved in an accident and was unable to work. She 
made a claim to LV but it declined the claim as it related to neck and back issues. It said it 
would have applied an exclusion for neck and back issues had Mrs R declared her previous 
back issues when she bought the policy. Mrs R agreed to the exclusion but didnt agree that 
her claim related to neck and back issues. She said she had been off work due to 
depression and anxiety. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but 
didnt think LV had done anything wrong as the medical evidence it had obtained showed 
that Mrs R was off work due to neck pain. Mrs R disagreed and provided evidence to show 
that she had suffered from anxiety since May 2020. But our investigator said LV hadnt 
received that information when Mrs R made her claim - as that evidence wasnt available 
until a later date.
Mrs R said she had tried to unsuccessfully log her claim with LV and had explained all of her 
symptoms at the outset and so LV should have known that she was claiming for her mental 
health issues. She said she sustained physical injuries but also emotional trauma which she 
has been dealing with since the accident. An agreement couldnt be reached.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Firstly, Ive considered the following exclusion applied by LV as a result of a 
misrepresentation made by Mrs R when she took the policy out:
We will not accept any claim for any disease or disorder of the back, neck or spine 
including the supporting muscles, ligaments, joints or discs of the spinal column or 
related nerves including sciatica.
LV applied the exclusion retrospectively in line with The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012. I think the exclusion was applied fairly as Mrs R had a 
history of back-related issues which she forgot to declare when taking the policy. The 
exclusion was accepted by Mrs R. So I wont comment on that any further. 
Turning now to the crux of the complaint, Mrs R is unhappy that LV has declined her claim 
on the basis of the above exclusion. She says she was off work as a result of her anxiety 
and depression and not back or neck related issues. And that she had explained her 
symptoms to LV when she initially called to make her claim. 
Although Mrs R says she told LV about her symptoms, the medical evidence would need to 
show that she was suffering from those symptoms and they were the reason for her 
absence. Ive reviewed the medical evidence which was available to LV at the time Mrs R 
made the claim. This shows Mrs R was signed off due to pain following RTA until the end of 
April 2020. From May 2020, her fit notes changed to anxiety following RTA. From June 
2020, this changed to depression-anxiety.
So, in summary, when LV requested and reviewed Mrs Rs GP records in February 2020, 
they showed reference to neck pain following the RTA. The records showed entries up to the 
end of February. A hospital letter dated January 2020 was also included which included a 
diagnosis of a neck muscle injury. There is no evidence that Mrs R was suffering from 
depression or anxiety at the time LV declined the claim. So I dont think it has done anything 
wrong. 
In addition, LV has confirmed it will consider any further evidence if Mrs R makes a further 
claim. She has evidence from May 2020 and September 2020 where she was diagnosed 
with mental health issues. Mrs R will need to provide this evidence to LV and make a new 
claim for it to consider. I think this is reasonable. And so I wont be asking LV to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman