DRN-1095175
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
During a meeting in 1999 Mr and Mrs D took out a loan with Halifax. At the same time they 
were sold a regular premium PPI policy to protect their repayments. Although the loan was in 
joint names the policy was in Mr Ds name only.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited their needs.  
Mr and Mrs D disagree, they say they didnt need the policy. So the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Mr and Mrs D applied for a loan during a meeting with Halifax. Halifax had to make it clear to 
Mr and Mrs D they had a choice in taking the policy. Mr and Mrs D havent provided any 
specific details about what happened when the policy was sold to them but given the length 
of time that has passed, I wouldnt expect them to have a detailed recollection of what was 
discussed. So Ive given more weight to what the documents from the time of the sale show.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds loan agreement. I can see on the loan agreement that 
the costs of the loan and PPI are set out separately on the right. Mr and Mrs D have signed 
just to the bottom left of the agreement. I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve read the agreement 
that they signed and understood they were taking out PPI with the loan. And I dont think that 
PPI wouldve been included on the agreement if there hadnt been a discussion about PPI 
and Mr and Mrs D hadnt agreed to take it. 
So I think its likely that Halifax did make it clear the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs 
D chose to take PPI at the time of the sale.
This was an advised sale. What this means is that Halifax not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs D could 
make an informed choice about buying PPI. They also had to make sure that if they were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D for the following reasons:
Mr D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr D says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but had 
no other means of making their repayments if they couldnt work. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay and for potentially longer covering their repayments 
for up to 60 months if Mr D was too sick to work and for up to 12 months if he lost his 
job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs D in their 
circumstances.
  
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs D at the 
time and if they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it.  
 
I also need to consider whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that cost of the policy was shown on the loan 
agreement but I dont know if Halifax gave all of the information as they shouldve.
For the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs D has told 
us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
theyd been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means Mr and Mrs D arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman