DRN-3422758
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) provided incorrect advice about an 
account overdraft.
What happened
Miss T held a student account with Santander. The account had a £2,000 interest free 
overdraft attached to it. After Miss T graduated in July 2018, the account changed to a 
graduate account with an interest free overdraft until August 2020. 
Following this Miss T called Santander in May 2019 and says she explained that she would 
be starting a post-graduate degree in September 2020. Miss T says that Santander advised 
her to take proof that she was starting a post-graduate degree to one of its branches and her 
account would be changed back to a student account. Miss T said she did this but was told 
email confirmation wasnt sufficient. 
Due to the implications of the Covid-19 pandemic, Miss T couldnt visit a branch and so she 
called Santander in May 2020 following receipt of a letter from Santander explaining her 
account would be changing to a current account, which would incur overdraft interest. During 
the call, she says she asked how she could provide proof to Santander that she was starting 
a post-graduate degree. However, Santander explained it didnt offer a student account for 
post-graduate degrees. So Miss T complained to Santander and said she was incorrectly 
advised that her current account would revert to a student account when she started her 
post-graduate degree.
Santander issued its response to Miss Ts complaint and said it couldnt listen to the call that 
Miss T had with it in 2019, in which she said she was provided incorrect information. So it 
said it took her word for this. It also said it didnt offer the student account it had didnt cover 
post-graduate courses anymore. And so it said it couldnt change the account back. It said 
the charges had been correctly applied, but it credited her account with £250 to cover some 
of the charges she may incur.
Miss T referred her complaint to this service in August 2020. She said the £250 Santander 
had paid her would only cover her overdraft fees for around three months. She said it should 
pay her the overdraft fees she would incur for the two years she was led to believe she 
would have an interest free overdraft. She also said as a result of the incorrect information 
Santander had provided her about the account, her credit file had negatively been impacted. 
Since the complaint has been referred to this service, Miss T has repaid the overdraft. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he felt the £250 that Santander had 
offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This was because Miss T was only 
charged a total of £175.86 in overdraft charges for the five months after July 2020. He said 
Miss Ts credit file was impacted as she was over her agreed overdraft limit. And Santander 
had already reimbursed her for the interest she paid. So he didnt think Santander needed to 
pay any further amounts to Miss T and neither did he think it should amend her credit file.
As Miss T remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Santander has said no call recording is available for the call Miss T made it in 
May 2019. Due to this, it accepts it provided Miss T with incorrect information about her 
account being reverted to a student account when she started her post-graduate degree. In 
light of this, what I need to decide here is whether Santander has fairly compensated Miss T 
for the incorrect information it provided. And if not, what, it needs to do to put things right.
Ive considered what Miss T would have likely done if Santander had provided her with 
correct information in May 2019 and told her that her graduate account wouldnt have 
reverted to a student account when she started a post-graduate degree. 
Having done so, I think its more likely than not, that Miss T would have kept her Santander 
account even if she had been provided with the correct information in May 2019. I firstly say 
this because Miss Ts graduate terms which still provided preferential terms, were due to run 
until August 2020 anyway. I dont think she would have moved providers at this stage as she 
was unlikely to be able to receive such terms with another bank at that time, because she 
wasnt due to start her post-graduate studies for another year.
Furthermore, when Miss T was provided with the correct information in May 2020, she still 
had around four months before she started her post-graduate degree. Given she knew she 
couldnt get a student account with Santander, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Miss T to have obtained a student account with a provider which provided them for post-
graduate studies or explore her options elsewhere, in an attempt to mitigate her loss. 
However, she didnt do this and continued to use the account after she started her post-
graduate degree. 
I can see that Santander has already paid Miss T £250 to put things right. I understand the 
incorrect information caused Miss T distress and inconvenience when she was told by 
Santander it was incorrect in May 2020. Ive listened to call recordings in which Miss T told 
Santander about her personal circumstances at the time. However, because I dont think 
Miss T would have likely done anything different even if she had been provided with the 
correct information by Santander in May 2019, I think the £250 its already paid Miss T is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. And so it follows that I dont think it needs to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman