DRN-2972279
The complaint
Miss B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card and later increased the credit limit. 
What happened
In May 2018 Miss B applied for a credit card with Vanquis over the phone. During the 
application, Miss B said she was employed with an income of £12,000 and a total household 
income of £24,000. Vanquis completed a credit search and says it found around £3,900 of 
other unsecured debt. Vanquis says it found a defaulted debt that was over three years old 
at the point Miss B applied but didnt find any other adverse credit. The application was 
approved with a credit limit of £1,000. 
In August 2018 Vanquis increased the credit limit to £1,500. Vanquis says Miss Bs credit 
card had been managed efficiently and it didnt find an increase in her overall borrowing with 
other lenders or new adverse information on her credit file. 
In March 2020 Vanquis increased the credit limit to £2,500. Vanquis has confirmed it had 
previously refunded a late payment fee but that Miss Bs account had been maintained 
overall. In addition, Vanquis says Miss Bs overall outstanding credit had reduced by around 
£500 and that there was no other new adverse information recorded on her credit file. 
Miss B went on to complain that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly and has explained shes 
concerned that despite making payments for several years the balance remains. Vanquis 
didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Vanquis had dealt with Miss Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Miss B asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Vanquis had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss B could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
When Miss B first applied, Vanquis took her personal and financial circumstances into 
account, in line with the information provided during the application. I can see Vanquis found 
default information on Miss Bs credit file but it was over three years old. Vanquis has 
confirmed it accepts applications with some low level adverse credit and Im satisfied it was 
aware of Miss Bs default. Vanquis says it applied its lending criteria and approved the credit 
card. I note the credit limit was £1,000 and Miss B owed around £3,900 to other lenders. 
Im satisfied Vanquis did complete proportionate checks when it approved Miss Bs credit 
card application and that its decision to do so was reasonable. 
Vanquis increased the credit limit by £500 a few months after the application was approved. 
Vanquis says it carried out another credit check and found Miss B owed around the same 
amount as when she applied. Vanquis has confirmed it took Miss Bs income and 
circumstances into account and approved the credit limit increase, taking it to £1,500. At this 
point, I think it was reasonable to rely on the information contained within the original 
application. In my view, Vanquis did complete proportionate checks before it increased 
Miss Bs credit limit to £1,500. Im satisfied Vanquis lent responsibly. 
The final credit limit increase took place around 18 months later. Vanquis has provided 
evidence to show the information it found when it looked at Miss Bs credit file. Overall, the 
outstanding unsecured credit reduced and there was no new adverse credit, including 
defaults. Vanquis also says Miss B had made her payments and administered the account in 
line with the terms, generally paying more than the minimum. 
I note Vanquis also used income and expenditure figures to estimate Miss Bs overall budget 
before it increased the credit limit. Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied Vanquis 
completed proportionate checks before it increased Miss Bs credit limit to £2,500 and its 
decision to do so was reasonable. I havent found that Vanquis lent irresponsibly. 
If Miss B is experiencing financial difficulties, she has the option of discussing her credit card 
with Vanquis to see whether it can provide assistance. Miss B can also contact third party 
organisations that provide advice to consumers. Full details of the organisations that may be 
able to help can be found on this services website. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but as I havent found that Vanquis lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card or increased the credit limit, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman