DRN-1423957
 
The complaint 
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Miss S. AXA didn't actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss S was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Miss S has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Miss S filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you 
make by signing in a box. Miss S has said she just signed where she was told to, and no 
explanation was given of the PPI. But I think the form does set out information about the PPI, 
and a customer has some responsibly to check what they are signing. I would need good 
evidence that AXA was trying to mislead Miss S before I could say the PPI was mis-sold in 
this way. And I don't have that strong evidence.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Ss 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss S to decide whether it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Miss S clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself didn't go into enough detail. And Miss S has said she wasn't 
given any other information about the PPI. But in Miss Ss circumstances at the time, I don't 
think the missing information is likely to have made a difference to whether she took PPI. I 
say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than her full 
employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or 
redundancy pay. Also its not clear she had many alternative means to pay her living 
expenses and credit account for long, if she lost her income; and even if she did, she could 
have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, further information wouldn't have 
made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman