DRN-2787283
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited cancelled his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in error, leaving him unable to make a claim on the policy 
when the need arose. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr M contacted Assurant to make a claim on the policy. However, Assurant 
told him that the policy had been cancelled due to his bank sending notification in March 
2019 that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled. Mr M says he was unaware that 
the policy had been cancelled.
Assurant has provided a copy of a letter that it sent Mr M in March 2019, confirming that the 
policy had been cancelled. However, there was an error and the letter incorrectly stated that 
it was Gadget Insurance that had been cancelled as opposed to a PPI policy, although it did 
contain the correct policy number. The last premium payment taken from Mr Ms bank 
account was on 1 April 2019.
Our adjudicators view was that Mr M was not aware that the policy had been cancelled, 
even though no premiums had been taken out of his account for a year and that it was likely 
that an error occurred when Mr M was in the process of changing bank accounts. As the 
letter that Assurant sent to Mr M in March 2019 was incorrectly worded, our adjudicator 
didnt think that would have been good enough to alert Mr M to the PPI policy being 
cancelled.
Our adjudicator explained to Mr M the options that might be open to him. It was explained 
that, if this service found in his favour, Assurant could be asked to assess the claim. 
However, in that case, Mr M would have to pay all of the premiums from when the policy was 
cancelled. Alternatively, rather than the policy being reinstated and the claim assessed, 
Assurant could be asked to make a payment to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in relation to the wrong letter being issued. Mr M said he would prefer a payment for 
inconvenience and not have the policy reinstated. Our adjudicator then recommended that 
Assurant should pay Mr M £150 compensation.
Assurant disagrees with the adjudicators view, saying that an apology should be enough, 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there are some slight discrepancies in the evidence provided by Assurant in terms 
of the date that it received the direct debit AUDDIS notification from Mr Ms bank, overall I 
am satisfied that Assurant did receive it and therefore it was not at fault for cancelling the 
policy. However, I agree with our adjudicator that the letter that Assurant sent Mr M in March 
2019 was insufficient to make him aware that the PPI policy had been cancelled. When Mr M 
wanted to claim on the policy in April 2020, it would have been upsetting for him to be told 
that he was unable to do so, and he then had to go to the trouble of making a complaint.
Putting things right
On balance I consider that £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr M for his 
distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained about, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £150 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman