DRN-2920008
The complaint
Ms D has complained Sainsburys Bank plc wont refund her for transactions she didnt 
make.
What happened
On 17 May 2020 Ms D contacted Sainsburys to complain about transactions she didnt 
recognise.
Ms D discovered numerous transactions amounting to over £1,600 had been made to 
PlayStation after 5 May 2020. She asked Sainsburys to refund these as she had not 
authorised these transactions. Ms D was concerned her account had been hacked as she 
didnt believe her son  whod downloaded initial games  could be responsible for spending 
so much money. She was also concerned at the financial situation this left her in during 
Covid when she was concerned about money and her job security.
Sainsburys wouldnt refund Ms D. They believed the transactions had been authorised as 
Ms D had taken no steps to cancel the link between her credit card and the PlayStation 
account.
Ms D brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened based on the evidence from both Ms D and 
Sainsburys. He also noted what the Payment Services Regulations stated about apparent 
authority. Although he saw Ms D hadnt taken steps to stop her card being used, he felt 
thered been plenty of opportunity for Sainsburys to identify the unusual transactions and 
intervene. He asked Sainsburys to refund transactions from 12 May onwards. 
Sainsburys disagreed with this outcome. They felt the fact Ms D had authorised the 
transactions outweighed their responsibility to check transactions and intervene where 
possible.
Our investigator didnt believe Sainsburys was correct. Ms Ds complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Sainsburys and 
Ms D. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 3 June 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. Theres also detailed background about the BSI 
Code which our investigator, and I, will take into account when deciding what a fair and 
reasonable outcome is.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Ds complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. 
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Ms D can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Ms D needs 
to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
Sainsburys. In other words, Ms Ds genuine card was used to make them with the required 
checks carried out.
Turning to consent, I think all the evidence suggests Ms Ds son was using his PlayStation 
and making in-app purchases. I dont really buy the idea that Ms Ds account was hacked. 
Theres no benefit there, as far as I can tell, to a third party.
Sainsburys has said Ms D would have received emails and messages from PlayStation to 
confirm the number of transactions which were taking place. Ms D has said she didnt 
receive anything otherwise shed have been able to stop the transactions earlier.
Unfortunately we have no evidence from Sainsburys about what checks they carried out to 
verify that Ms Ds credit card was linked to a PlayStation account. But Im prepared to accept 
what theyve said on this. Ms D has also confirmed that her credit card was linked to her 
sons PlayStation account. I can see there were PlayStation transactions in the previous 
couple of months for small amounts which have not been disputed.
I also have limited data about the timing of transactions which may have assisted in 
checking that these were in fact carried out by Ms Ds son. Ms Ds son may well know he 
shouldnt be racking up transactions but experience of this and similar cases show that the 
pricing is not always as transparent as one would expect.
Our investigator suggested Ms D was providing apparent authority to her son to make the 
PlayStations transactions. This can be as simple as linking a card to an account, as I 
believe happened here. Apparent authority can be withdrawn or annulled by the payment 
service user (Ms D in this context) but Ive not seen anything to support Ms D had done so. I 
appreciate Ms D believes she cant have authorised transactions she was unaware of and I 
sympathise with her. But I believe overall Ms D had provided apparent authority for the 
disputed PlayStation transactions.
But this doesnt end here. There are further considerations for me to apply to this case. 
Specifically whether Sainsburys could have done more to stop the disputed transactions and 
protect Ss account?Could Sainsburys have done more?
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the PSRs and the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the 
bank shouldve identified any unusual or out of character transactions that could involve 
fraud or financial abuse. There is industry guidance on this in the 2017 BSI Code of Practice 
on Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. Our 
investigator went into more detail about the specific sections. I see no reason for me to 
repeat these.
I believe Sainsburys was on notice that something unusual was happening on two bases. 
Firstly the vast number of transactions that were being processed. Ms Ds statement for 
these transactions amounted to 10 pages whilst her previous statements barely stretched to 
four pages past the required information. And then that these transactions were highly 
unusual for Ms Ds account. Even though there had been previous authorised PlayStation 
transactions, there are five transactions on 6 May and another on 8 May then another 45 
transactions on 11 May. At this stage I believe Sainsburys should have taken action.
So overall and on balance, I think its fair and reasonable to say Sainsburys ought to have 
done more. They could have contacted Ms D or blocked transactions from 11 May onwards. 
Im confident that if theyd got in touch with Ms D, shed have confirmed these should be 
stopped.
Putting things right
I believe that Sainsburys should have taken proactive steps to protect Ms D. And this factor 
overrides any apparent authorisation that existed. I know Sainsburys believes otherwise but, 
as our investigator highlighted, the BSI Code exists to protect the customer whether the 
transactions are authorised or not.
What that means is that Sainsburys must reimburse all disputed transactions that are on 
Ms Ds statement from and including 12 May 2020. Its unclear whether Ms D has repaid her 
credit card account but if she has, Sainsburys will need to add 8% interest to the 
transactions from the date Ms D repaid them until the date of settlement.
Ms D has complained about how she was treated by Sainsburys. A great deal of her 
concern is about the impact this complaint has had on her during a period when she had 
more than plenty of other things to worry about. Ive thought about this carefully. Overall I 
can see Sainsburys has given her £125 and offered her a further £75. I believe this is still 
available to her. I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to:
Refund all disputed transactions Ms D lost to PlayStation mentioned on her 
statement on and after 12 May 2020; 
Add 8% simple interest to the refund for the value of those transactions from the date 
Ms D repaid that debt until the date of settlement; and
Pay a further £75 compensation to Ms D as already proposed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman