DRN-2893530
The complaint
Ms A has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) actions in connection with her 
breakdown cover insurance policy.
Ms A is the policyholder but in bringing this complaint shes been represented by her 
husband. But, for ease of reading, I'll refer to both of their comments and actions as 
being Ms As.
Ms As policy is branded in the name of a well-known recovery service. But as the policy is 
underwritten by UKI it remains responsible for complaints about actions covered by the 
policy. So Ill refer to UKI rather than the recovery service throughout this decision.
What happened
In 2018 Ms As car wouldn't start and she called UKI. It sent out one of its local recovery 
service providers, which Ill refer to as A. A told Ms A her car needed a new battery, which it 
sold to her for around £87.
Around a year later Ms As car wouldn't start again. UKI sent A out to her again. It said her 
battery needed charging so she should run the engine for a while in order to do so. Ms A did 
that but soon after her car wouldn't start again. She took it to a local garage, which Ill refer 
to as S. It replaced the battery A had supplied and charged her around £123 for doing so.
Ms A complained to UKI, which looked into it. As part of that process A told UKI it had since 
collected and tested the old battery after S replaced it. A said the battery wasnt showing any 
faults. But, as a goodwill gesture it said it would refund Ms A the price shed paid for it 
(around £87).
UKI didn't uphold Ms As complaint. It told her that as A had sold her the battery UKI wasnt 
responsible for that transaction. It also confirmed that the recent call-out wouldnt affect her 
premium.
Ms A brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 22 June 2021. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's been some debate between Ms A, UKI, and A about whether or not the battery A 
supplied was faulty and what might have caused that. Similarly UKI said that Ms A hadn't 
given it the opportunity to look into that before she instructed S to replace the battery. But, in 
terms of the cover Ms As policy offers I don't think that debate was helpful.
Ms A clearly thinks that if A sold her a faulty battery then, as agents for UKI, UKI should be 
responsible for the costs of the replacement battery and any additional related expenses. 
But I don't think A was acting as UKIs agent at the point it sold Ms A the battery.
When UKI replied to Ms As complaint it told her that her policy doesn't cover costs agreed 
between Ms A and the recovery service. Specifically the policy says: 
If you use a repair garage for anything, they'll be your agent, acting on your behalf. We're 
not responsible for anything they do, or any problems they cause.
And, when A replaced the battery that was an agreement made directly between Ms A and A 
as a repairing garage. So under the terms of her policy in selling her the battery A was acting 
as agent for Ms A and not for UKI. So UKI isn't responsible for anything connected with the 
batterys sale, including if it later turned out to be faulty. In fact UKI bears no more 
responsibility for the sale or condition of the battery than if Ms A had bought it from a 
high-street retailer or any other battery supplier with no connections to UKI. And this is a 
common term in roadside assistance and breakdown recovery policies, so I don't think UKI 
was under any obligation to highlight it.
It follows that I don't think UKI is responsible for any costs Ms A incurred because she 
decided to replace the battery, regardless of whether or not the battery was faulty. 
That said, I can see that UKI did try to help. And it liaised with A which resulted in A 
refunding Ms A the original cost of the battery. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances and I don't think UKI needs to pay Ms A compensation.
Developments
UKI didn't have anything further to add. Ms A said that as UKI doesnt take responsibly for 
repairs carried out by its agents its marketing is misleading. She said that UKI advertises its 
service as being equivalent to other well-known roadside assistance companies which, she 
says, do accept responsibility for their engineers. So she said UKI should be obliged to 
disclose that it offers an inferior service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Ms As commented on how UKI markets its roadside assistance activities in comparison with 
other roadside assistance providers. I haven't investigated the differences in cover offered 
between UKI and other roadside assistance providers. But I think its worth noting that UKI 
would be responsible for its service providers actions while they are acting as UKIs agents. 
But it won't be responsible for any action when service providers are acting directly for Ms A. 
And as thats set out in its policy, and its a common term in such policies, I think thats fair.
Further, how UKI advertises its service wasn't a complaint Ms A has put to it previously. So it 
hasn't had the chance to address those concerns. Similarly, it wasn't a matter Ms A put to us 
initially; so it's not something we investigated when looking at Ms As specific complaint. In 
those circumstances it's not something I intend to comment on here. And as neither UKI nor 
Ms A has provided any other objections to my provisional decision I see no reason to depart 
from it. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman