DRN-4387258
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited are reporting query markers to his credit file.
What happened
Mr J felt Vanquis were incorrectly reporting the balance of his account on his credit file and
queried this with them. Vanquis placed query markers on Mr Js credit file while they
investigated the matter.
But while Vanquis did find in Mr Js favour and updated the credit file reporting moving
forwards to the correct amount, they didnt update the incorrect reporting theyd already
made and left the query markers for that incorrect reporting on Mr Js credit file. Mr J wasnt
happy about this as the query markers were adversely affecting his credit score. So, he
raised a complaint.
Vanquis responded to Mr J but didnt feel they were acting unfairly by making the reports to
Mr Js credit file that they were. Mr J wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so he referred
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel it was fair that the query
markers should remain on Mr Js credit file after the query had been resolved in his favour,
so recommended that Vanquis should remove them. Vanquis didnt agree, so the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 September 2023 as follows:
It seems clearly and obviously unfair to me that Mr J should incur the potentially adverse 
effects of having the query markers on his credit file, given that the query he raised was 
found in his favour meaning that Vanquis reporting was incorrect.
Additionally, Vanquis are obliged to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies.
This means that if the balance that they were reporting was incorrect  as Mr J successfully
queried that it was  that Vanquis should correct the historical reporting for the queried
months so the balance for those months is reported as it should have been.
Additionally, once the query had been resolved in Mr Js favour, and the necessary
corrections to the incorrect historical reporting had taken place, then there would be no need
for the query markers to remain on Mr Js credit file  because the query was resolved and
because the corrected reporting was no longer being queried.
All of which means that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Js favour and
instructing Vanquis to amend the incorrect historical reporting  for the months that Mr J
queried  to the correct reporting, so that its as it should have been had it been reported
correctly. And Vanquis must also remove the query markers from Mr Js credit file.
Finally, its also clear and obvious to me that Mr J has incurred a degree of upset and
frustration here because of Vanquis failure to make accurate reports to the credit reference
agencies but to instead continue to report amounts that are now known to be incorrect
alongside query markers for a query that is no longer in place. And because of this Im also
instructing Vanquis to pay £250 to Mr J as compensation for the trouble and upset that hes
unfairly and unreasonably incurred here.
In arriving at this compensation amount, Ive considered the impact of these events on Mr J,
including as per the testimony of Mr J himself, alongside the general framework which this
service uses when assessing compensation amounts  details of which can be found on this
services website. And having done so, I feel that £250 is a fair amount.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr J and Vanquis the opportunity to respond 
and provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I 
moved to issue a final decision. Mr J confirmed that he was happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Vanquis did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here upholding this complaint in Mr Js 
favour on the basis described above. And I therefore confirm that my final decision is that I 
do uphold this complaint in Mr Js favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Vanquis must amend the incorrect historical reporting  for the months that Mr J queried  
so that its as it should have been had it been reported correctly. And Vanquis must also 
remove the query markers from Mr Js credit file.
Vanquis must also make a payment of £250 to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman