DRN-3682528
The complaint
Mr N complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
WPS Financial Group Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to WPS.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ns employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ns employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr N was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to WPS 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr N was 47 years old. He had accrued almost 30 years worth of service with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ns BSPS was approximately 
£365,804. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr N earned around £30,000 and lived in a home he owned almost outright. He had 
around £3,000 in savings.
Mr N was contributing to a new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme which had 
been recently started as a consequence of the BSPS being closed to new 
contributions. This pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
WPS set out its advice in a suitability report in November 2017. In this WPS advised Mr N to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. WPS said 
this would allow Mr N to achieve his objectives. Mr N accepted this advice and so transferred 
out in 2018. In 2022 Mr N complained to WPS about its advice, saying he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out to a personal pension but WPS didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr N then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, WPS said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr N had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be informally resolved, it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, WPS didnt initially agree it had done anything wrong. However, in the 
interest of bringing complaints like this to a close, WPS has recently said it would be willing 
to accept the investigators view and run a calculation to see if the pension transfer had 
incurred any loss for Mr N. 
WPS has used a BSPS-specific calculator established by the regulator for this purpose. Ive 
noted it took Mr Ns transferred pensions current value and inputted this into the calculator 
together with all his personal details. And the calculation shows there has been no financial 
loss incurred as a result of Mr N transferring away, back in 2018.
For the avoidance of any doubt here, Ive still looked at Mr Ns case and his points of 
complaint in great detail. I have particularly looked at the transfer analysis carried out in 
2017 by WPS, the fact-find detailing all Mr Ns circumstances, and the suitability report. 
Having done this, I agree with the points made by our investigator who comprehensively set 
out why he thought the complaint ought to be upheld. Im also sorry that its taken so long for 
Mr Ns complaint to reach this stage  I understand the distress and inconvenience caused 
by him having to bring the complaint at all.
However, because WPS has recently informed us that it is willing to accept the investigators 
view that the advice wasnt right for Mr N, and that a calculation has been carried out as 
required by the regulator, Im not going to go into the level of detail I normally would about 
why the complaint should be upheld. I can also see that weve explained to Mr N, the 
complexities about his former DB pensions value. We have also explained its relationship 
with both market forces in general, and specifically, with bond yields. So, these things help 
explain why no overall financial loss has been incurred in this situation. Weve also checked 
that the inputs that were put into the BSPS-calculator are correct.
In summary then, I dont think the advice given to Mr N back in 2017 was suitable. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. And I dont think 
there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I 
therefore think WPS ought to have advised him against transferring away from the BSPS. 
As I dont think I need to consider this in any further detail, Ill now focus on the redress 
methodology.Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr N back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. WPS has carried out a calculation using a BSPS-specific 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by WPS which are personal to Mr N. These 
include Mr Ns personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ns case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr N 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
Our investigator recommended that WPS should pay Mr N for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr N in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a relatively large amount. In his situation I think 
the thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr N. So I agree the 
recommended payment of £300 for distress and inconvenience. WPS should pay Mr N this.
I think the calculation carried out by WPS is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress 
for financial losses is due to Mr N. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require WPS Financial Group Limited to pay Mr N a sum of £300 
for the distress and inconvenience he says this matter has caused him. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman