DRN-2953666
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax gave her wrong advice when 
she asked about eligibility for a bonus payment in a Help to Buy ISA scheme.
What happened
Ms T had a Help to Buy ISA product with Halifax. In October 2020, she contacted Halifax to 
ask if the property she was looking to buy was within the London postcode area. The Help to 
Buy ISA had a government bonus. Buying a property within the London postcode region had 
different eligibility criteria. This meant she could buy a property with a higher purchase price 
and still be eligible for the bonus payment.
Ms T said that she was told by the Halifax that the property was inside the London postcode 
area. She said she proceeded with the purchase on the basis of this information. She said 
this was because the Government bonus would go towards the deposit on the house.
She said that after she had exchanged contracts, and five days before completion, she was 
told by her solicitor that the Help to Buy bonus had been declined. She said this was 
because the property she was buying was outside of the London area.
She said that she had to find the funds from elsewhere to avoid losing the house at this late 
stage. She said that she would have lost her deposit of more than £50,000, would have 
become homeless as she and her partner had ended their rental agreement, and she would 
have been liable for additional fees.
She complained to Halifax, asking that they compensate her for the loss of £4,000.
Halifax admitted that theyd given Ms T wrong information on the call, and offered her £150 
to apologise for the trouble and upset this had caused her.
They also told her they were not liable for the bonus amount, as they provided the Help to 
Buy ISA, but were not responsible for the eligibility criteria. They provided her with a link to 
information about Help to Buy ISAs on the governments website. They said this showed 
there were steps throughout the purchase period where other parties were responsible for 
checking the eligibility criteria.
Ms T wasnt happy they were passing the blame onto estate agents and solicitors, so she 
complained to this service.
Our investigator said that Halifax shouldnt have given advice on eligibility, but she didnt 
think it was fair to ask them to pay the bonus amount to Ms T. She said this was because 
under the Governments rules, she wouldnt have been eligible for the bonus. 
She also said that she felt the £150 Halifax had offered for the trouble and upset caused was 
fair.
Ms T disagreed. She said the amount didnt reflect her financial loss or the amount of stress 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.
 
Halifax has admitted they gave Ms T incorrect information. She called them to ask if the 
property she was wishing to purchase was within the London area specified in the 
Governments guidance. Halifax gave her the wrong answer and that is not in dispute.
So the issue I have to consider is what does Halifax need to do to put matters right.
The Help to Buy ISA was launched by the Government in 2015 to help first time buyers save 
for their first home. The scheme offered a Government bonus of 25%.
The Help to Buy ISA scheme has a set of Rules that set out the way in which the ISA 
Scheme will work. This includes explanations of who may open a Help to Buy ISA, who may 
manage a Help to Buy ISA, and what Help to Buy ISA savers need to do to qualify for the 
bonus. The rules also set out the eligibility criteria.
 
The rules confirm that to be eligible for the bonus payment the purchase price of a property 
located in London must be no more than £450,000, or £250,000 if the property is located 
outside London.
Schedule 9 of the scheme rules list the London boroughs that the property must be located 
in to qualify for the increased property price eligibility criterion.
 
The rules also define the role of the ISA Manager, in this case Halifax, and the role of the 
Eligible Conveyancer.
Ive read the scheme rules and the role of the Halifax appears to me to be to make 
information available to ISA holders, including information about the eligibility criteria.
The role of the Eligible Conveyancer is to verify that the ISA Holder, in this case Ms T:
satisfy the criteria set out in these Scheme Rules for the purposes of making 
applications for Bonus payments.
The scheme rules also say that the conveyancer shall not claim the bonus until it is satisfied 
that, amongst other things:
the Purchase Price for the Eligible Interest in Land is: 
(1) if the Eligible Interest in Land is situated in London, not more than £450,000; or 
(2) if the Eligible Interest in Land is situated outside London, not more than £250,000.So Im satisfied it was not the responsibility of the Halifax to confirm Ms Ts eligibility for the 
Government bonus. I understand why it was disappointing for Ms T to discover late in the 
house purchase process that Halifax had provided her with wrong information. But Im 
satisfied it wasnt their role to verify that Ms T had met the eligibility criteria.
I also dont think it would be reasonable to ask Halifax to compensate Ms T for the bonus 
amount she says she lost out on. This is because, under the scheme rules, she didnt qualify 
for the bonus. Those rules were set by the Government and are not something that Halifax 
has any discretion over.
Im satisfied Halifax took reasonable steps to resolve Ms Ts complaint. While the amount 
theyve offered is not what Ms T thinks it should be, I think its a fair reflection of their 
contribution to the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms T.
She has highlighted the financial loss she suffered, and the wider impact of having to find the 
bonus amount she believed she was going to receive in addition to the amount shed saved 
in the ISA. This was a difficult time for Ms T, but she wasnt eligible for the government 
bonus, and I dont think it was the role of Halifax to confirm whether or not she was eligible 
for that bonus. 
It's for these reasons I wont be asking Halifax to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint about Bank of Scotland plc  
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman