DRN-2965415
The complaint
Mr H complains about the repairs that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made to his car after a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
UKIs approved garage made repairs to Mr Hs car following an accident. Mr H said that 
when the car was returned to him, he noticed that the central locking system wasnt working. 
But UKI said this wasnt accident-related but due to wear and tear. Mr H was also unhappy 
that the rear parking sensors worked intermittently. 
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
more likely than not that a fuse had blown whilst the car was being repaired, and this caused 
the central locking to stop working. 
Mr H provided a report from a garage showing that the parking sensors werent working. UKI 
said this would have been checked before the car was returned. But the investigator thought 
this hadnt been fixed properly. She recommended that UKI should pay Mr H £100 
compensation to cover the cost of the fuse repairs and his trouble. She also thought it should 
deal with the parking sensor repairs.  
UKI replied that the fuse could have blown at any time in the week before Mr H reported it. It 
thought the repair cost was excessive. But UKI agreed that it was responsible for the parking 
sensor fault. It offered for Mr H to return the car to its repairer for rectification, or for him to 
provide a quote for its consideration. Mr H was unhappy with this, and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to UKI on 20 July 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr H said he noticed the fault with the central locking system a week after the car was 
returned by the repairing garage. He said the fault wasnt there previously. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
UKI first contacted the repairing garage which said a fault with the drivers side lock was 
noticed when the car was first checked in and this was a common fault and due to wear and 
tear. I didnt see the sign in sheet that the garage referred to or when it was completed. But I 
could see no reason not to rely on the file notes provided by UKI. 
Mr H thought the wiring may have been knocked during the repairs. And so UKI consulted its 
engineer who said that this was unrelated to the accident as the car had been hit in the rear 
and the rod for the central locking was in the drivers door. He thought the issue was due to 
wear and tear. 
Mr H then took his car to his own garage for a diagnosis of this fault and a new problem hed 
noticed with the parking sensors. The garage found that the locking problem was due to a 
blown fuse. Mr H thought this had occurred when the cars battery had been disconnected. 
UKIs engineer then said,
If a fuse had blown I'm confident the repairer would have addressed this simple issue which I
can only guess this has blown after repairs complete as fuses can blow at any time. In my opinion 
disconnecting the battery does not generally blow fuses.
But the garage hadnt dealt with the issue when it signed in the car and noticed the problem. 
And it hadnt told Mr H about this. So Mr H was left thinking the fault was caused during the 
repairs. He had to raise a complaint and take his car to his own garage to identify that a 
blown fuse was the cause. I thought this was poor service. And I thought UKI should 
reasonably compensate Mr H for this. 
UKIs engineer thought £66 to replace a fuse was excessive. But this cost was for the 
inspection of the car and the fuse. So I didnt agree that it was excessive. The investigator 
recommended that UKI should pay Mr H £100 compensation for the repair and his trouble. 
But I didnt think that was sufficient. I thought £150 covered the costs of the report he 
obtained and his trouble. Its what Id require in similar circumstances. 
UKI has accepted that the faults with the parking sensors were accident-related and should 
have been repaired. Its offered for Mr H to return his car for rectification, but Mr H is 
reluctant to do this. Its also offered for Mr H to obtain his own quote for its consideration. 
This doesnt mean that Mr H should just have the car repaired and present the invoice to 
UKI. I thought that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to consider a quote before agreeing to 
authorise it. Mr H was concerned that it wouldnt accept a quote if it wasnt reasonable. But I 
thought it was for Mr H to decide which of these two options best suited him.
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or UKI, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to require U K Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
1. Pay Mr H £150 to reimburse him for the cost of an engineers report and to compensate 
him for his inconvenience.
2. Deal with the repair of the parking sensors, as its already agreed to do.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H replied that he had nothing further to add. UKI replied that its engineer had made Mr H 
aware of the problem with the door lock when the car was first inspected. The engineer said 
that the problem with the door lock was mechanical and common for this make of car. He 
said this wasnt accident-related. 
I accept that UKI made Mr H aware that there was a problem with the door dock. But the 
report that Mr H has provided shows that the fault with the door lock wasnt due to wear and 
tear, but because of a blown fuse. This wasnt identified by the repairer as UKIs own 
engineer thought it should have been. And Mr H then had to take his car to his own garage 
to have the fault diagnosed and repaired. 
I think UKI should reasonably reimburse Mr H for this cost and compensate him for his trouble. So I still think that £150 in total compensation is fair and reasonable for the reasons 
given above.
 Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr H £150 to reimburse him for the cost of an engineers report and to compensate 
him for his inconvenience.
2. Deal with the repair of the parking sensors, as its already agreed to do.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman