DRN-4354334
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited (Esure) unfairly settled a third partys motor 
insurance claim and decided he was at fault for an alleged accident. 
What happened
Mr A had a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Esure.  
In April 2023, Mr As policy with Esure ceased when he switched insurance providers. 
Shortly afterwards, the new insurer wrote to Mr A to say hed provided incorrect claims 
information when he took the policy out. It said it had become aware that hed been in an at 
fault vehicle collision on 8 July 2022. It increased Mr As premium by £150. 
Mr A said he had not been involved in an accident and had not received any 
correspondence from Esure about any accident. Esure said that it had been notified that Mr 
As vehicle had collided with a stationary car and damaged it. It was alleged that the person 
driving Mr As car had not stopped, but a witness had made a note of the registration 
number. 
Esure said that it contacted Mr A by telephone and then by email to find out what happened, 
but it was not able to get in touch with him. As it could not contact Mr A, Esure settled the 
third-partys claim. 
Mr A later accepted that Esure had emailed him but said the message had gone into his junk 
folder and he did not see it.  He said Esure should have done more to contact him and so he 
complained to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said the policys terms and conditions allowed Esure to settle the claim in the way it had. As 
it couldnt get in touch with Mr A, our investigator said Esure could not have defended the 
claim. 
Mr A did not accept our investigators view and so the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know Mr A is adamant that his vehicle was not involved in an accident and that the third 
partys claim was fraudulent. I want to be clear that it is not my role to decide whether an 
accident took place or who was at fault if it did. I have to look at whether the actions of Esure 
were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr As policy say that Mr A is required to provide 
information, documentation and any help Esure may need to investigate a claim. The terms 
also say that Esure can settle a third partys claim made under Mr As policy how it sees fit.
When it received the third partys claim, I understand that attempts were made by Esure to 
telephone Mr A. An email was also sent to him requesting further information. I know Mr A 
says he didnt receive this message at the time, but I understand it was sent to the correct 
email address and Mr A was eventually able to locate the message. 
Mr A thought Esure should have sent him a text message. I accept that it may have been 
possible for Esure to have contacted Mr A that way. But I think trying to get in touch with him 
by telephone and email was reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand the third partys claim was based on information provided by a witness who had 
allegedly seen Mr As car collide with the third partys vehicle. As Esure didnt have any 
information from Mr A about what allegedly happened, I cant say it was unreasonable for it 
to settle the claim in the way it did. 
I know Mr A said he wanted the alleged accident to be removed from the record and to have 
his no claims bonus reinstated. By that, I understand he means that he wants the accident to 
be removed from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database. But I understand an 
insurer must record any incident it is made aware of and the value of any claim that has 
been paid. That means I couldnt tell Esure to remove the accident from the database. 
I do understand how strongly Mr A feels about this case and in particular that there was no 
accident at all. But after considering all of the information before me, I cant say Esure acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. It follows then that I havent upheld Mr As complaint and I 
dont require Esure to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about esure Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman