DRN-4111759
The complaint
Mr M complains about a subscription service he took out with Experian Limited.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties, so I am covering them briefly here  instead I will 
focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr M took out a subscription service with Experian and cancelled it. He complains that he 
was due to receive a £10 refund but had not got it back for many months. He thought that 
Experian had issued it to an account he had since closed.
In order to resolve matters Experian offered Mr M an Acquirer Reference Number so that he 
could trace the £10 refund. It also paid him £10 in additional compensation for what had 
occurred. 
Our investigator thought Experian had acted fairly and noted it had pro-actively contacted Mr 
M in regard to the original refund. Mr M did not think Experian had acted fairly. In summary 
he says that he was the one who contacted Experian in September 2022 asking for a refund.
The matter has come to me to look into and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties I will not be commenting on it 
all  only matters I consider most relevant. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects 
my role resolving disputes informally.
I think there is no dispute here from any party that Experian made an error in not refunding 
Mr M £10 when he cancelled his subscription in August 2022. I too can see that it made a 
mistake from the evidence presented here. However, when considering what is an 
appropriate way to put things right I have thought about the impact on Mr M from the error 
and the actions of Experian to date. Its actions might include things which are non-monetary.
When noting the impact on Mr M I am not convinced that he was aware he was due a refund 
before Experian contacted him. It appears that Experian pro-actively recognised Mr M was 
owed £10 as part of an internal review. This is backed up by a persuasive email from 
Experian dated 23 March 2023 explaining the situation to Mr M. I can see that it appears to 
be the receipt of this email which prompts Mr M to then make a complaint to Experian by 
email the day after. In this email he doesnt mention chasing the matter for 
months/contacting Experian about it before  only that he was unhappy that the amount 
should have been refunded months ago.
Since our investigator issued her view Mr M has said he had contacted Experian about a 
refund in September 2022 by email (which he provided). However, I am not sure why Mr M 
would not have provided this information originally. It also appears to be made out to an 
incorrect email address for Experian while in any event Experian has confirmed it has no 
record of Mr M chasing this payment prior to it identifying the issue to him in March 2023. 
Overall, I dont find Mr Ms latest submission to be persuasive in light of the other evidence 
available (including Mr Ms response to Experian identifying the error to him in March 2023).
I accept it would have been frustrating for Mr M once he found out he was owed money, but I 
think this frustration has likely not been over the period of time he claims. It appears Mr M 
likely first complained to Experian in March 23 and the matter was quickly responded to by 
Experian that same month where it provided him with a reference number to trace the 
payment and an additional £10 compensation. 
The additional £10 paid to Mr M is not a lot of compensation but when deciding what is fair 
here I have also considered that compensation is not the only way to put things right in 
situations like this. I note Experian not only reached out to Mr M to identify its own error, but 
also to say sorry (the title of its email and body includes an apology). It then apologised 
again once Mr M had complained about the matter and was prompt in explaining the 
situation. I think this apology is sincere and goes some way to mitigating the situation here.
In coming to my findings here I also note that Mr M has not provided any persuasive 
evidence of wider financial loss as a result of Experians error that would warrant further 
redress.
Considering the overall circumstances I have described, including Experians apology and 
the way it promptly handled Mr Ms concerns after it identified the error to him I dont think 
that additional compensation is due here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman