DRN-1534645
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that their Virgin Money plc mortgage product switch application 
took longer than expected, which meant they went onto the standard variable rate (SVR) for 
a month.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage with Virgin Money was on a preferential rate until 30 June 2019. 
They were told for a rate switch to take effect from 1 July theyd need to have applied, 
received the mortgage offer and for Virgin Money to have received the signed acceptance of 
the offer back by 18 June.
Mr and Mrs D applied for the rate switch on 11 June via a mortgage broker. Theres a note 
on the application in response to the fact Virgin Moneys index-linked valuation system gave 
an estimated property value of £248,190. The note states Valuation amended because: 
Because the clients bought the property below market value to start with and have spent 
money developing it. The clients have had 3 separate estate agents value it at £270,000 
within the last month.
As the index-linked valuation figure wasnt high enough for Mr and Mrs D to qualify for the 
product they wanted, and they thought their property was worth £270,000, Virgin Money 
instructed an independent valuation on 18 June.
The valuation was carried out on 5 July, and the report was received by Virgin Money on 
8 July. Despite the valuation coming in lower than Mr and Mrs D thought  at £260,000  it 
was enough for them to qualify for the product and so Virgin Money issued the product 
switch mortgage offer on 11 July. Mr and Mrs D signed and returned the offer acceptance 
form on 17 July. Virgin Money received it and processed it on 18 July; the deadline for the 
product switch to take effect from 1 August.
Mr and Mrs D say because of the delay they had to pay SVR for a month. Virgin Money 
acknowledged there was a two working day delay when it first received the application and 
apologised for that. It also offered £50 compensation to try to resolve things. But other than 
that it said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought Virgin Moneys offer was fair. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware my summary of the background above doesnt include every contact between the 
parties. I confirm Ive read everything provided by Mr and Mrs D. Theyve made detailed 
submissions in support of their complaint. Ive taken note of everything theyve said, but I 
wont be responding to each and every point, or in as much detail. No discourtesy is 
intended by this; it simply reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Mr and Mrs D have said We believe we are being totally reasonable as we only want to be 
put back into the same position, as if the case had completed in time. I look forward to you 
working on our behalf to get this settled. Were independent and impartial; we dont work on 
behalf of either party to a complaint. We can only put Mr and Mrs D back in the position 
theyd be in if the case had completed when originally anticipated if we were satisfied it was 
Virgin Moneys fault it didnt happen. If we dont think it was Virgin Moneys fault that 
Mr and Mrs D went onto the SVR then we wouldnt order it to do anything.
Having looked at everything, and keeping in mind normal industry practice, Im not 
persuaded (as I must be if Im to uphold this complaint) that it was Virgin Moneys fault the 
rate switch application wasnt completed by 18 June.
Mr and Mrs D talk about Virgin Moneys errors, but there was only one error and that was the 
initial delay of two working days. Had Virgin Money not had that delay then the valuation 
would have been instructed on Friday 14 June rather than Tuesday 18 June. Im satisfied 
that if the valuation had been instructed on Friday 14 June there was simply no way 
everything could have been done in time for Virgin Money to receive the signed offer 
acceptance back on Tuesday 18 June.
I understand Mr and Mrs D blame Virgin Money for its index-linked valuation system giving a 
lower figure, which meant a valuation was needed. But thats not Virgin Moneys fault as that 
data comes from external sources and Virgin Money is entitled to rely on it. Mr and Mrs D 
have said it was inaccurate, but thats unfair bearing in mind the note I mentioned earlier 
saying the property had been bought at below market value and had been developed since 
then. Without someone seeing the property those things cant be considered as an 
index-linked system (which many lenders in the industry use, not just Virgin Money) doesnt 
know the specific details of every single property in the country. It bases the figure on factors 
such as what the property was last bought for, and how much (on average) properties have 
changed value by in that area since that transaction took place.
Virgin Money cant use figures given by estate agents, for the reason weve seen here in that 
the estate agents over-estimated the value of the property (which, again, isnt at all unusual 
in the industry). As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the index-linked valuation figure that was 
generated in line with normal industry practice then Virgin Money did the fair thing in 
instructing an independent valuation to be undertaken.
The two-day delay by Virgin Money isnt the reason Mr and Mrs D went onto the SVR. It was 
an unfortunate fact that Mr and Mrs D applied too close to the deadline for a valuation to be 
carried out, and a valuation was needed. If a valuation hadnt been needed, then I see no 
reason for the application not to have been completed in time. As Ive already explained, it 
wasnt Virgin Moneys fault that a valuation was needed, so it follows that I cant hold Virgin 
Money liable for the month Mr and Mrs D spent on the SVR.
That said, Virgin Money admitted there was a two-day delay and it apologised for that, 
offering £50 compensation. Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do 
is consider what the impact of that two-day delay was, if anything. I also look at the awards 
of compensation weve made in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense I consider Virgin Money plc made a fair offer. I 
leave it to Mr and Mrs D to decide if  on reflection  they now wish to accept that offer 
directly with the business. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman