DRN-3727954
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold a 10 year fixed rate product on 
his mortgage.
What happened
Mr W had a variable rate mortgage with Nationwide for approximately £195,000. In 2018 he 
wanted to take a further advance and discuss fixing his interest rate, having seen a 
promotion for Nationwides 10 year fixed rate. So, he contacted Nationwide. Following 
conversations with Nationwide, it recommended he borrow an additional £75,000 and fix 
both parts of the mortgage for 10 years at a rate of 2.59%. The recommendation was for 
approximately 33 years, on a capital repayment basis. Mr W agreed to take that mortgage.
Mr W says Nationwides adviser didnt discuss, explore or highlight any of the risks with him. 
He says he wasnt told that he would be locked in for a long time with significant penalties to 
exit if interest rates were to fall. And, he says the adviser didnt offer alternative terms. Mr W 
also complains that Nationwide has not explained the level of the cost to exit the product and 
how that cost is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the cost and risk taken by Nationwide. 
So, he complained to Nationwide.
In its final response letter dated 25 October 2021, Nationwide concluded it hadnt acted 
incorrectly. It said advice was provided to Mr W which took his preferences into account prior 
to recommendations being made. It also said the mortgage offer document explained that 
the amount repayable for early redemption would range from 7% to 1% of the amount 
redeemed depending on when the redemption happened. The letter also explained, on a 
basic level, what is taken into consideration when it sets its early redemption charge.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint, Mr W asked us to consider it. Our 
investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong.  He said the mortgage 
agreement set out what the early redemption charge may be and gave cash examples. And 
he said, from listening to the calls between the adviser and Mr W, he was satisfied 
Nationwide ensured the product was suitable for Mr W. He also said, from information 
provided by Nationwide, he was satisfied the early redemption charge applicable to Mr Ws 
mortgage was calculated fairly and in a reasonable way.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, if the level of the early redemption charge had been discussed 
and the five year fixed alternative had been presented for consideration, he would have 
opted for the five year product.
As Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ws complaint, Ive thought about whether Nationwide recommended a 
suitable product for Mr W and whether Mr W was informed of the charge that might be 
applied on early redemption of his mortgage. Ive also thought about whether Nationwide 
had set its early redemption charge fairly.
Nationwide has supplied a call recording of the mortgage interview between its adviser and 
Mr W. The call was over approximately two hours. The adviser took time to understand what 
Mr W needed the additional borrowing for. They then spoke at length so that the adviser 
could understand Mr Ws financial circumstances. Mr W explained his current role and also 
explained that he used to be a financial adviser. And then Nationwides advisor explored    
Mr Ws potential plans for starting a family and any other potential significant changes to his 
circumstances.
Nationwides adviser asked Mr W why he was interested in the 10 year fixed rate it offered. 
Mr W explained that he had considered historical interest rates, what was happening 
politically and research about the governor of the Bank of England carried out by 
economists. He said hes also thought about inflation, Brexit and interest rate rises in 
America. Mr W outlined his thinking about the 10 year fixed rate and it was clear that hed 
thought it through thoroughly and was certain about what he wanted. He also outlined his 
understanding that Nationwide would apply a charge if he redeemed the mortgage before 
the end of the fixed rate term. He also said he may make overpayments but wouldnt be in a 
position to make overpayments in excess of the 10% that would be allowed each year 
without being charged for early redemption.
I agree with Mr W that a lender should ask questions and provide information to establish 
that the product it goes on to recommend is suitable in the circumstances of the borrower. 
But, given that all borrowers are different and have different circumstances, I wouldnt expect 
the mortgage interview to follow the same pattern in each instance. In this case the 
mortgage adviser asked questions that encouraged Mr W to volunteer information about his 
circumstances. I think Mr Ws responses would have shown Nationwides advisor that he 
was confident about the product he wanted based on the thorough research he appeared to 
have done. 
Given that Mr W appeared so confident that the 10 year fixed rate was right for him and that 
hed supported that confidence with an explanation of the research hed carried out, I dont 
think there was a need for Nationwides advisor to discuss other products. I think, if it had 
done, Mr W would still have opted to take out the 10 year rate given he clearly had such a 
strong preference for it. And I think it was reasonable, given the responses he received from 
Mr W that a 10 year fixed rate was suitable for him.
During the mortgage interview, Mr W said that he understood a feature of the fixed rate 
product was that hed need to pay a redemption charge if he redeemed his mortgage early. 
The possible amounts payable in the event of early redemption were outlined in the 
documentation provided to Mr W  illustrations and the mortgage offer. The mortgage offer 
shows early redemption charges illustrated as percentages of the amount redeemed from 
1% to 7%. And it showed specifically what different percentage applied to each different time 
window of the fixed rate period. For example, it showed that from 1 May 2024 to                   
1 May 2025, 4% of the amount redeemed would be charged. And it gave cash examples for 
some of those time windows. 
Given Mr Ws clear understanding during the mortgage interview that redemption charges 
would apply throughout the fixed rate term and the detailed illustration of what charges might 
apply when, I dont think Nationwides adviser needed to explain any more to Mr W. I dont 
think he could have said anything to add to Mr Ws existing knowledge and the detail the mortgage offer provided him with that is likely to have influenced him to change his mind 
about the product he wanted.
The mortgage conduct of business rules (MCOB) say early redemption charges on 
mortgages must be a reasonable pre-estimate of costs incurred to the lender as a result of 
the borrower repaying the mortgage back early. But it also says that estimate of costs can be 
calculated across a group of mortgages of a similar type. That means the cost doesnt have 
to be specific to the actual mortgage being redeemed. Calculating the estimated cost over a 
group of mortgages allows a lender to tell a borrower in advance  at the point of sale   
specifically what it will charge if their mortgage is redeemed at a given point within the early 
redemption period (usually coinciding with the fixed rate period).
Weve asked Nationwide to supply details of how it calculated the early redemption charge 
and it has supplied us information to allow us to assess that. I know Mr W would like us to 
share details of Nationwides calculation so that he can satisfy himself of its fairness. But that 
information is commercially sensitive, so I am unable to share that with him or go into any 
detail about the calculation. Instead, our approach is to consider the information provided to 
decide whether we think the early redemption charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of 
Nationwides costs. Having done so Ive seen that Nationwides pre-estimate of the costs it 
would incur for early redemption are higher than those it would charge Mr W for early 
redemption. So, I think the early redemption charges, as outlined in Mr Ws mortgage offer 
letter, are fair. 
Overall, I think Nationwide recommended a product that was suitable for Mr W, given what 
he told the adviser. And it supplied enough information for Mr W to have a clear idea about 
the potential cost to him of redeeming early. I also think the early redemption charge 
applicable to the product taken by Mr W was based on a reasonable pre-estimate of 
Nationwides costs and was therefore fair. That means I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman