DRN-1552928
The complaint
Mr V complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr V was sold a PPI policy in 2002 in connection with a mortgage during a meeting. The PPI 
would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr V was off work sick or lost 
his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Vs complaint should be upheld. Mr V didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Vs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr V was eligible under the policy. Based on his age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mr V was eligible for the 
policy. 
BoS had to make it clear to Mr V that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Vs account. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And BoS no longer have all the 
documents from the time of the sale. However, I am aware of BoS sales process around the 
time of the sale and have an understanding of how PPI would have been presented during 
this process. And my understanding is that PPI would have been presented as optional and 
only applied to the account if Mr V chose to take it out. 
Of course its possible that BoS may have done something differently during this sale. 
However, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that they did deviate from 
their normal process of presenting PPI as optional. I appreciate that Mr V in response to the 
adjudicators view said that he wasnt given a choice about taking PPI and that it was 
presented as compulsory. However, previously he has also stated in his PPI questionnaire 
that he wasnt aware PPI had been applied to his account. 
So all in all, based on my understanding and the information available to me, I cant say that 
its more likely that BoS didnt present the PPI as optional and/or that Mr V didnt consent to 
taking it out.
BoS say they advised Mr V to take PPI. This means had to check if the PPI was suitable for   
Mr V. I cant say that BoS checked all the things they should have but I do think the PPI was 
suitable for Mr V. I say this because:
- Mr V has told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But the PPI would 
have made out in addition to this and for a much longer period of time. It would also 
have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr V would have been entitled to. 
- Mr V doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. For 
examples, terms relating to certain medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for 
Mr V.
- Mr V could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially.
BoS also had to give Mr V clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, 
benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr V wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in 
itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr V this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman