DRN-3645661
The complaint
Ms N complains that Sky UK Limited (Sky) unfairly asks her to repay lending it provided her 
for goods she says she didnt receive.
What happened
On 1 September 2021 Ms N entered into an interest free fixed sum loan with Sky to finance 
the purchase of a mobile device, which was also to be supplied by Sky. 
Ms N says that a package was delivered the next morning, but when she opened it later that 
evening, she found that the device was missing. She raised the issue with Sky that day. 
Sky said it had looked into what had happened by speaking to the departments involved in 
the fulfilment process as well as the courier used to deliver the package. Ultimately, it was 
persuaded that the device had been delivered to Ms N.
Ms N referred the matter to this service. She maintained that she had not been provided with 
the device shed been provided lending for.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Sky had provided evidence to 
show that the device in question had been used to download mobile data using Ms Ns SIM 
card, on 18 June 2022. They were persuaded, on balance, that the device had likely been 
delivered to Ms N. 
Ms N disagreed. She provided evidence that she had ported away from Skys mobile 
network to another provider and purchased a new device. She also said that after raising her 
complaint with Sky, she began to receive calls from her own number. She questioned how 
she could call herself and suggested that someone with intelligent software must have the 
device and is using it to taunt her.
As Ms N asked for an ombudsmans decision on the case, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sky provided Ms N with a fixed sum loan to finance the purchase of a mobile device. It was 
also the supplier of the phone, so it was responsible for its delivery. As well as giving Ms N a 
fixed sum loan to cover the cost of the device, Ms N had an additional contract with Sky for 
the supply and use of the phone, as well as associated services.
Ive seen that the terms of Ms Ns fixed sum loan was linked to the other contract for the 
supply of the device. Given this, and as it appears that both contracts were sold as one 
package, in my view the contracts were intrinsically linked - the credit agreement actually 
sets out that it is a requirement for Ms N to also enter into a contract for the supply of 
equipment. As a result, Ill consider both contracts together in determining whether Sky has 
treated Ms N fairly. 
Ms Ns fixed sum loan has terms which seek to stop her setting off a claim under one 
contract against the other. This might apply in a situation where Ms N seeks to make a claim 
about the failure to supply the goods to her under the linked contract for goods and services. 
Ive thought about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says about contract terms, 
and Im also aware that it is for a court to decide if a term is unfair, but Im required to take 
into account relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable.  
Having carefully considered this, I dont think it would be fair to exclude Ms Ns right to set off 
a claim under one contract against the other. I think we can consider Ms Ns claim that Sky 
breached its contract with her by not supplying the goods. In any case there is a regulated 
credit agreement, under which Ms N is being charged for the goods, so I can consider 
whether Sky is acting fairly by asking Ms N to pay where there is a dispute about delivery
As a result, Im able to decide whether I think, on balance, that the device in question was 
delivered to Ms N.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as it is in this case), I make
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties in this case accept that a package was successfully delivered to Ms N. Ms N 
says that the device she purchased using lending from Sky wasnt inside that package. 
Skys provided a picture from its courier which seems to show that the package hadnt been 
accessed by the point it was delivered. From what shes said, I think Ms N agrees that the 
outer package hadnt been obviously accessed. She contends that the inner box was 
missing a security seal as well as the device. Ms N has suggested that the device was most 
likely removed prior to the package being given to a courier. 
Sky has gone into detail regarding the fulfilment process it follows in fulfilling an order like Ms 
Ns. That includes receiving the device directly from the manufacturer and then employing 
various security measures, such as factory surveillance, anti-tamper measures as well as 
logging a digital record of the whereabouts of packages. Its not provided any specific 
evidence about the journey Ms Ns package took, but given the process its explained as well 
as the level of security measures it seems to have employed, on balance, Im persuaded that 
the device in question was likely in the package which Ms N received.
Additionally, Sky has provided evidence  in the form of a system screenshot  which it says 
shows that the device was used with Ms Ns SIM card in it, on 18 June 2022. The 
screenshot shows that a device with the same IMEI as the device in question was used with 
a SIM card which has the same telephone number as the one which Ms N gave this service. 
I find that evidence to be persuasive and I think it points towards the device having been 
successfully delivered to Ms N. 
Ive carefully considered the points Ms N has made about receiving calls from her own 
number and it pointing towards a third party having software which might mimic her number. 
However, Ive not been persuaded thats likely the case by way of the evidence Ms N has 
provided. Additionally, I dont find that suggestion as plausible and persuasive as that which 
has been presented by Sky  in particular what its told us about its fulfilment process, as 
well as the evidence its given us of the device being used with Ms Ns SIM card. 
Given all of the above, Ive not been persuaded that Sky failed to provide Ms N with the 
goods it was obliged to. So, I dont think its acted unfairly by asking Ms N to repay the 
associated lending.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman