DRN-3787892
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage current account (MCA) reserve facility, an overdraft, 
Mr A held with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) alongside a joint mortgage with Mrs A. 
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy the balance was higher than they expected it to be in 2019. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2008. At the same time, Mr A opened an 
MCA with an overdraft facility. Mr and Mrs A say they have always been up to date with their 
contractual monthly payments (CMPs) on their mortgage and an additional loan, so they 
dont understand how they accrued an outstanding balance of around £65,000 on the MCA. 
And, they say Barclays has been unable to demonstrate how this happened since they 
raised their complaint.
Mr and Mrs A asked for historical statements to show how this balance came to exist as they 
dont believe they have ever used an overdraft facility. As such, they think a further advance 
they took out for around £65,200 in March 2019 was incorrectly used to clear the 
outstanding balance on the overdraft when it should have been paid directly to them. They 
say they were also asked to pay a sum of £750 before the application went through, but they 
were unsure what this was used for.
Barclays looked into Mr and Mrs As concerns and said its records confirmed Mr and Mrs A 
took out the further advance in March 2019 to repay the outstanding balance on their MCA. 
Barclays didnt agree that the funds should have been paid directly to Mr As personal 
current account for this reason. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy, so the complaint was referred to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr and Mrs As concerns, but they didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs A disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Id like to confirm that an ombudsman has previously considered Mr and Mrs As 
complaint about whether the MCA should have been set up when the mortgage was first 
applied for in 2008. The ombudsman explained that their complaint about this was out of 
time under the rules we have to apply, so I cant comment on this further. 
This service has also considered a complaint about whether the further advance Mr and 
Mrs A took out was incorrectly paid to the MCA, when it should have been paid to Mr As 
personal current account. Again, Im unable to comment on this further as that complaint has 
already been looked into by an investigator under a different reference.
In this complaint, my role is to decide whether the balance on Mr and Mrs As MCA was 
correct before it was cleared by their further advance. 
Barclays has provided copies of its internal records for Mr As MCA. The records include 
notes taken by the mortgage adviser who arranged Mr and Mrs As further advance in 
March 2019. The notes clearly say the further advance was to be used to repay the overdraft 
facility on the MCA, as Mr and Mrs A intended to restructure their lending. The notes also 
say this was because Mr and Mrs A wanted to make their lending secure and guarantee the 
amount they owed would be repaid by the end of the term. This suggests Mr and Mrs A were 
aware there was an outstanding balance on their MCA at the time.
Mr and Mrs A say they dont understand how the balance on the MCA got to around 
£65,000. So, Ive reviewed the MCA statements which show they withdrew large sums on 
multiple occasions as follows:
14 October 2013  £20,000 transferred to Mr As personal current account
21 January 2014  £5,000 withdrawn from a branch
4 February 2014  £5,000 withdrawn from a branch
24 March 2014  £5,000 withdrawn from a branch
21 July 2014  £5,000 withdrawn from a branch
19 November 2015  £1,650 transferred to Mr As personal current account
24 February 2017  £5,000 withdrawn from a branch
27 July 2018  £5,000 transferred to Mr As personal current account
So, the transfers were credited to Mr As personal current account, and the cash withdrawals 
were taken out at Barclays branches. Looking at the branches cash was withdrawn, I can 
see that all of them took place in branches located in, or close to, the area Mr and Mrs A live. 
So, I think its more likely than not Mr A made the transactions.
Mr and Mrs A now accept that they made the transfer for £20,000, but they say the 
transactions for £5,000 following this were to withdraw the same £20,000 from Mr As 
personal current account, not from the MCA. But the statements Ive seen show that wasnt 
the case, the £20,000 was transferred to Mr As personal current account, but the 
withdrawals for £5,000 were separate, additional, withdrawals Mr A made. If the transactions 
were completed on the wrong account, I think Mr A more likely than not would have noticed 
his own personal account balance hadnt reduced, so I would have expected Mr and Mrs A 
to complain about that much sooner.
Ive also seen copies of Mr As personal bank account statements which show the £20,000 
was credited to the account and that the funds were used for other means, separate from the 
£5,000 withdrawals. The balance reduced over several months as multiple smaller 
withdrawals were made. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A have had the benefit of all the 
transferred sums and withdrawals. Mr and Mrs A have been provided with their historic 
statements on both accounts to demonstrate this, so I dont think theres anything further 
Barclays can do to confirm that.
Barclays has explained that the £750 Mr and Mrs A were asked to pay was the remaining 
sum needed to bring the MCA overdraft to £0. This accounted for the additional interest 
Mr and Mrs A would be charged on the balance of the MCA before it was paid off in full. 
While I cant know what was discussed, I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs A 
understood what this was for at the time. So, I also think its more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs A were aware they were incurring interest on the MCA balance, which made up the 
remaining balance of the MCA before it was repaid in full.So, Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs A have said, but Im satisfied Mr A used the 
overdraft facility of the MCA to borrow funds on multiple occasions. The total funds 
transferred or withdrawn from the account, along with the added interest over the years, 
resulted in an outstanding balance of around £65,000 in 2019. It follows, I dont think 
Barclays need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman