DRN-4273655
Complaint
Miss G has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to her. She says that the loan was irresponsibly lent.
Background
118 118 Money provided Miss G with a first loan for £1,000.00 in July 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £60. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss G and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss G unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Miss Gs complaint be upheld. Miss G disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Miss G could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money provided Miss G with a loan for £1,000.00 in June 2021. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 instalments of just under £60. 118 118 Money says it agreed to Miss Gs 
application after she provided details of her monthly income and some information on her 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
and all of this information showed Miss G could to comfortably make the repayments she 
was committing to. On the other hand, Miss G has said she was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss G and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided the output of Miss Gs 
application. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Miss G had had historic difficulties 
with credit  there was a historic existing default. But Miss Gs active commitments at the 
time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Miss Gs 
unsecured debt total at the time of the application was low in comparison to her income too. 
I accept that Miss Gs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information 118 118 Money obtained. Equally I accept that if 
118 118 Money had gone into the depth of checks Miss G appears to be saying it should 
have  such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider would  it 
may have reached a different answer. 
But the key here is that 118 118 Money wasnt providing Miss G with a mortgage. It was 
providing a loan for a small sum with low monthly payments. Its only fair and reasonable for 
me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended further. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Miss G - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found 
out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Miss G unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing for Miss G. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman