DRN-3841715
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost when 
he fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Barclays is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. As Mr P authorised these payments, 
albeit tricked by a scammer, the starting position is that he is liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Barclays failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it 
liable.
The records Ive seen show Barclays didnt complete any additional checks on these 
payments. So Ive considered whether the nature of the payments meant it should have 
done  i.e. whether they should reasonably have flagged as a fraud risk. 
I appreciate that, overall, Mr P lost a significant amount of money to the scam. But this 
wasnt paid in one single large and uncharacteristic transaction. It was spread over a few 
payments which, in my judgment, wouldnt have appeared particularly unusual or out of 
character when compared with Mr Ps spending history, such that they ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a 
scam.  
For example, the payments didnt significantly escalate. The first two were for a similar 
amount and the second two were for lower amounts. And there were gaps between the 
payments; they werent made on the same day, and most had gaps of a few days in 
between. 
 
Mr P also had a history of making higher-value payments, around a similar level  or more 
than  the disputed payments. As our investigator pointed out, he made payments of just 
over £6,000, and £4,500, in the months leading up to the scam. The highest disputed 
payment was £5,100. Given Mr Ps account use, the value wouldnt have appeared 
particularly unusual for him.
Ive taken into account that the disputed payments were made to a cryptocurrency provider, 
whereas the other larger payments went to different types of recipients. Im aware that 
scams involving cryptocurrency are becoming increasingly prevalent and well-known to 
banks. But, at the time these payments were made, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to 
take into account a range of factors when deciding whether to make further enquiries of its 
customer about a particular payment. And, based on these factors, I consider it reasonable 
that Barclays didnt view the payments as suspicious. 
I also agree with our investigator that Barclays couldnt have done more to help recover the 
funds once Mr P raised his complaint about the payments being allowed go to through. The 
chargeback scheme offers some protection for payments made using a debit or credit card, 
as these were, but only for certain disputes about the merchant paid directly.
Here, the funds were paid to a a legitimate crypto-exchange platform before they were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. Mr P therefore wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim because the service would be considered provided (i.e. the 
purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Barclays acted unreasonably by not 
pursuing a chargeback claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman