DRN-3166160
The complaint
Mr S complains that Jones Sheridan Financial Consulting Limited trading as 1825 delayed 
giving him advice about taking his pension.
What happened
Mr S appointed Jones Sheridan as his financial advisers. He says it has been advising him 
for over 30 years. 
In November 2017 Jones Sheridan was acquired by Standard Life Aberdeen Group and 
changed its trading name to 1825. 
Mr S had a personal pension policy with P. He says he first asked Jones Sheridan to give 
him advice about taking his pension benefits in 2015. At that time he says Jones Sheridan 
told him he could get a better deal than the one being offered by P. He says Jones Sheridan 
told him it would shop around and let him know the outcome. He says his adviser then 
went on leave and he heard nothing further. 
On or about February 2017 Mr S says he had his annual review with Jones Sheridan. He 
says the adviser told him he would get quotes from other providers to see how they 
compared to what he was being offered by P. Mr S says he heard nothing further. 
By September 2017, Mr S says his health had deteriorated and he decided to fully retire in 
October 2017. He says he urgently needed advice about what to do with the benefits from 
his policy with P. He contacted Jones Sheridan and an appointment was made to speak with 
its adviser in November 2017. At that meeting Mr S says the adviser didnt have details of 
the policy with P. During the meeting Mr S says he had to contact P to get his pension 
forecast. He says the adviser told him he couldnt get a better deal than the one being 
offered by P. He told him to go ahead and take the benefits being offered by P.
Mr S telephoned P. It recommended that he speak to its own adviser. Mr S agreed to do this. 
He says Ps adviser gave him different advice and he got a better deal. 
He complained to Jones Sheridan about what happened. He said Jones Sheridan had 
delayed giving him advice about taking his pension benefits. As a result hed lost out 
financially because he would have to live beyond 90 years of age to access all of the money 
in his pension pot.
Jones Sheridan looked into his complaint. It said the funds in his pension plan with P had 
been invested in line with Mr Ss attitude to risk. It thought the performance of his pension 
plan had been in line with normal parameters for his risk profile. It said its contact notes 
indicated that Mr S had discussed taking his pension benefits at meetings with his adviser 
but hed told it that he didnt want to take the benefits as he continued to work part-time.
Jones Sheridan also commented on what Mr S said about the age he would need to reach 
before he could access all of his benefits. It said that annuity rates were set having regard to 
a number of factors including age, health, gilt yields and the type of annuity selected. 
Jones Sheridan acknowledged it had taken longer than might have been expected to 
respond to his complaint. It offered to pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced as a result. Mr S was not satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought Mr S hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of what happened. He said Mr S had told us that in April 2016 he 
wasnt in a position to take his pension benefits. So, there was no evidence he would have 
brought his pension into payment at that date even if Jones Sheridan had given him 
alternative quotes. It wasnt until October 2017 that Mr S decided to retire. Our investigator 
thought that was the first point in time when he wouldve acted to take his pension benefits. 
Although there was a short delay before Jones Sheridan had met with him there was no 
evidence hed lost out financially as a result.
Our investigator thought £200 was fair and reasonable compensation for the delay in dealing 
with Mr Ss complaint.
Our service did not receive any response from Mr S and we closed our file. But Mr S did 
contact us subsequently. He said he hadnt received the correspondence our investigator 
had sent to him. He said hed tried to contact the investigator but hadnt been able to 
because the investigator had left our service. He said he didnt agree with what our 
investigator had said and he asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is that Jones Sheridan shouldve told him to take the benefits 
from his policy with P much earlier  either when he was aged 65 or at least in 2015. He 
says the advice he got in 2017 from Jones Sheridan was that there was no need to shop 
around and the best option was to take the maximum tax free lump sum and the annual 
pension P was offering him. He says if hed been told that in 2015, when he asked for 
advice, he couldve started the process much earlier. As it is now, he says hell have to live 
until hes more than 90 years of age to be able to access all the money in his pension pot.
Ive looked firstly at what Mr S says about what happened in the period between 2015 and 
November 2017. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mr S was actively seeking advice 
about his policy with P during this period. Ill explain why below. 
Ill also consider, separately, whether it would have been fair and reasonable to expect 
Jones Sheridan to have advised Mr S to take his benefits from P much earlier, even though 
Ive decided he wasnt actively seeking advice about that matter.
Did Jones Sheridan fail to provide advice about taking benefits from the policy with P?
Ive considered the notes that Jones Sheridan have provided and Ive also taken into 
account Mr Ss recollections of the various meetings that were held. 
The notes indicate that at annual reviews in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 Mr S informed 
Jones Sheridan he was continuing to work part-time and he didnt plan to retire until he was 
aged 70. Ive copied out extracts from the notes below and commented on what was 
recorded:18 February 2013  P annuity policy matures 65th birthday. Would like to explore 
options available before deciding whether to take benefits now or defer
20 February 2013  Gave Mr S example quotesalthough considerably higher than 
P.. agreed that as he did not need the income now he would defer for at least 12 
months
April 2014  [Mr S] explained he had deferred taking his state pension as he keeps 
working and again will look at options re the P plan next year when the legislation is 
known.
April 2015  Mr S explained he is still deferring his state pension and does not 
expect to retire until age 70. 
He wants to look at the options available to him with the P pension .Explained 
changes in pension rules and talked about plans in the future for retirement so he 
could have a think about how much income and capital he would need.
Updated current expenditure and agreed to get back when we have more info on the 
P plan.
So, at all of these meetings the plan with P was discussed. But, theres nothing in the notes 
to suggest that Mr S was actively planning to retire or that he wanted to immediately bring 
the benefits under his policy with P into payment  even though alternative quotations which 
were considerably higher had been provided to him in 2013. On the contrary, Mr S told 
Jones Sheridan each year that he wanted to defer taking his benefits from the policy with P. 
In 2015, the adviser did say she would come back to Mr S with more information on the 
policy with P. She phoned a couple of weeks later to say this wasnt ready yet. Jones 
Sheridan did update its records on 20 May 2015, to make a note of the guaranteed pension 
amount P was offering at that time. The guaranteed pension was £1,170.80 per annum. And 
although theres no note to indicate that Jones Sheridan shared this information with Mr S at 
the time, theres also nothing to indicate that Mr S was actively pursuing it for updated 
information. Thats consistent with what hed repeatedly told the adviser about not wanting to 
retire until he was 70. Theres also nothing to suggest the adviser told Mr S she would seek 
quotations from other companies.
The next meeting was in April 2016. That was the last meeting with Mr Ss adviser before 
she went on extended leave. The notes state:
Mr S still deferring his state pension and does not plan to retire until age 70. 
enjoying part-time work and would prefer to do this now rather than retire 
completely.
Advised  may not be available for next review.. they said they were happy to wait 
until I was back from leave.
So, in April 2016 there was nothing recorded to indicate that Mr S had changed his mind 
about the date when he wanted to retire fully. Theres also nothing to suggest Jones 
Sheridan had offered to shop around for better deals or that Mr S was actively requesting 
this information. 
Ive then considered the meetings that took place in 2017. The notes are not as detailed as 
for previous meetings. There was a meeting in February 2017 with a different adviser. Jones Sheridan produced a 
Portfolio Report at that time. This included details of the policy with P. But, although there 
was an updated valuation (dated 6 February 2017) the guaranteed pension amount had not 
been updated. Theres no record of any discussions about the policy or any queries being 
raised by Mr S about the policy. I can see that Mr Ss wife did contact Jones Sheridan in May 
2017  but that was about an unrelated matter. 
Mr S told us he started to experience serious problems with his health in September 2017 
which meant he decided to stop working and to retire completely in October 2017. He says 
that by this stage he was desperately seeking information about what to do because he 
needed to replace the income from his part-time work. He contacted Jones Sheridan again 
and its adviser (a different adviser again) arranged a meeting for 24 November 2017.
The notes of this meeting are included in a report entitled Your information. Ive been 
provided with an unsigned copy of this report. The report includes the following notes:
Profile Notes
24/11/17 Review meeting  discussed move to 1825 and issued terms of business. 
Explained that a new adviser will be taking over next year and they will take the 
clients through the PSR engagement process. Clients were happy with this and will 
contact me in the meantime if they have any questions.
Next step notes
24/11/17  [Mr S] may elect to take his P pension at age 70. He intends to take the 
maximum tax free cash and may look to use the funds to top up his ISA in current tax 
year.
The report includes an updated valuation of the policy with P at 21 November 2017 - 
£78,327. The guaranteed pension amount has not been included or updated.
Mr S says he was advised at this meeting to go ahead and take what he was being offered 
by P  which was the maximum tax free cash lump sum and a guaranteed pension for a 
single life with no spousal benefits. Mr S says that because of this he decided to go direct to 
P to tell it he wanted to take the benefits as offered and it was only then that he got 
alternative advice from Ps own adviser.
I asked Mr S if he could provide a copy of the advice he says he was given by Ps adviser  
but he hasnt been able to provide that due to the passage of time.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said, but having done so, I havent found any evidence to 
support what hes said about Jones Sheridan advising him there was no point shopping 
around and instead to take what he was being offered by P. The notes dont record any 
advice being given about the policy with P or about Mr Ss change in health and his decision 
to retire from October 2017. 
So, having considered everything Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to say that 
Mr S was actively seeking advice about taking the benefits of his policy with P or that Jones 
Sheridan offered to provide quotations from other providers to him in the period after 2015, 
and then failed to do so.
Should Jones Sheridan have advised Mr S to take his benefits under the policy with P 
earlier?Mr S was paying Jones Sheridan an annual fee to provide him with advice. So, Ive 
considered whether it should have been proactively advising him to bring the benefits of the 
policy with P into payment after the date it matured (March 2013).
As noted above at each of the annual reviews the subject of the policy with P was discussed. 
In 2013, the adviser did provide Mr S with quotations from other providers and the notes 
indicate these were considerably higher than what P was offering by way of guaranteed 
pension. But, despite that, Mr S indicated he wanted to defer the matter as he did not need 
the income.
The policy was discussed at each subsequent annual review and each time Mr S indicated 
he wanted to defer the matter. No further quotations from other providers were obtained.
Mr S says he shouldve been advised not to defer the matter. He says he shouldve been 
told to bring the pension into payment and he would then have had a better chance of being 
able to access all of the money in his pot during his lifetime.
I can understand why Mr S is concerned that he now has a shorter period of time to draw the 
benefits from his pension policy  but that doesnt mean he wouldve been able to draw more 
if hed brought his pension into payment earlier. When determining the amount of pension an 
insurer takes into account a range of factors including age at the date when the pension 
commences. In general terms, the amount of pension available will be greater if someone 
retires later in life. 
It is also the case that whilst Mr Ss policy continued, it would have had the potential to grow 
in value  depending on performance in investment markets. 
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that Jones Sheridan delayed providing 
advice to Mr S about taking his pension benefits or that it is fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have advised him to take his pension benefits earlier when he told it on a number of 
occasions he wanted to defer retirement until age 70. 
Complaint handling
Jones Sheridan offered to pay Mr S £200 because it said it had taken an extended timescale 
to investigate his complaint. Mr S hasnt accepted that offer. 
Under the rules which apply to our service, we cannot look into complaints which are solely 
about how a business handled a complaint. Thats because complaint handling is not itself a 
regulated activity. It means I cant tell Jones Sheridan what to do in this respect  although I 
would hope it honours the offer it made, if it hasnt done so already. Mr S should contact 
Jones Sheridan directly if he now wishes to accept its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Jones Sheridan Financial 
Consulting Limited trading as 1825.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman