DRN-1812118
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F applied for a mortgage in 1999 and bought a PPI policy at the same time. 
Lloyds says the sale took place in a meeting at a branch.
The policy gave Mr and Mrs F a joint benefit (Mr F having 59% of the benefit and Mrs F 
having 41%). It wouldve covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim they made.
Mr and Mrs F say the policy wasnt suitable for them because of their good workplace 
benefits. More recently theyve also said they mustve felt under some pressure to take it out 
because theyd never taken out PPI on their previous mortgages.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Fs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs F 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Lloyds needed to make it clear Mr and Mrs F had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Mr and Mrs Fs loan assessment form has been ticked by the Lloyds adviser 
who filled it in to say they wanted PPI. Their signed mortgage application form has also been 
ticked to say yes to PPI  while there was an equally clear option to say no. And Mr and 
Mrs F signed a separate application form for the PPI as well as a separate direct debit 
mandate. The PPI application form is quite detailed and includes the rather unusual policy 
benefit split Mr and Mrs F had and that Ive already mentioned.
All of this makes me think its likely Mr and Mrs F discussed their insurance needs with 
Lloyds at the time and they agreed to have PPI because they wanted it. I know Mr and Mrs F 
dont have detailed recollections of the sale  which I dont think is surprising given how long 
ago it was. Theyve said they mustve felt under some pressure to take it out and that the 
sales patter at the time mustve been persuasive because they didnt have PPI on earlier 
mortgages. But I havent seen any evidence that Lloyds put unfair pressure on Mr and Mrs F to buy the cover  and what Mr and Mrs F say about it now, so many years down the line, 
isnt enough for me to think its likely Lloyds didnt give them a real choice about taking it out.
Mr and Mrs Fs main complaint point, though, is that the PPI wasnt suitable. Lloyds says it 
advised Mr and Mrs F to buy the cover, so it needed to make sure it was right for them. I 
dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this. And I should say the policy document Lloyds 
has given us post-dates the sale of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F by some months. But I think its 
likely the policy terms weve got are broadly the same as those that actually applied to Mr 
and Mrs Fs cover. Taking these into account, along with the information Mr and Mrs F have 
given us about their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable for them. I say 
this because:
Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the cover. Although Mrs F wasnt working full-time at 
the time of the sale, information Ive got from Lloyds shows she was working 30 
hours a week. And it doesnt seem Mr and Mrs F were affected by any of the policys 
main exclusions or limitations  for example for existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment arrangements. So it seems there was nothing to stop either of 
them making a successful claim on the policy.
Mr and Mrs F say they had good sick pay, enhanced redundancy packages and also 
access to pension schemes if they needed to retire because of disability. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each successful claim they made. This 
wouldve been on top of their sick pay and it wouldve lasted for longer than their full 
sick pay did. If either of them lost their jobs or had to retire due to ill health, having 
PPI wouldve meant any redundancy pay-out or pension income couldve been used 
for some time to pay other necessary living expenses, rather than paying the 
mortgage. So, despite their workplace benefits, I think the PPI still gave Mr and Mrs F 
useful additional protection. I say this especially bearing in mind their mortgage was 
a long-term and significant financial commitment and their home wouldve been at 
risk if they fell behind with their mortgage repayments.
I havent seen anything to make me think Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford the cover. So I 
dont think its cost made it unsuitable for them.
Mrs F has made a number of other points about the sale. She thinks they shouldve been 
told at the outset that Mr F wouldnt have been eligible to claim from 2013 onwards, when he 
retired. But this isnt a policy term Id have expected Lloyds to highlight to them at the time. 
Mrs F also says that, since a letter from the time refers to them being sent the full policy 
terms and conditions after their PPI application had been accepted, they werent in 
possession of all the facts when they bought it. Lloyds did need to give Mr and Mrs F all the 
clear information they needed to be able to make an informed choice about whether they 
wanted the cover. And its possible Lloyds didnt make some things as clear as it shouldve. 
But, as Ive already said, I think Mr and Mrs F agreed to the PPI and it was right for them. So 
I think clearer information, if it were needed, would only have confirmed this to them and 
wouldnt have changed their decision to go ahead with it.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs F the PPI. This 
means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to them.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman