DRN-3792160
The complaint
Mr F, on behalf of the estate of Mrs F, complains about the poor service provided by NRAM 
Limited on the late Mrs Fs mortgage account.
What happened
On 1 February 2022, Mrs F called NRAM to discuss what to do with her mortgage account 
because shed received sad news of a terminal illness. Mrs F asked NRAM to discuss the 
process with Mr F. Mr F says the call wasnt handled well and NRAM failed to provide the 
service expected. Sadly, Mrs F passed away on 17 February 2022. Mr F complained to 
NRAM on behalf of the late Mrs Fs estate about the poor service.
NRAM upheld the complaint, acknowledging the service provided during the call wasnt to 
the level it would have expected. NRAM offered £100 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mr F remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator considered 
the complaint but didnt think NRAM needed to do anything more as they didnt think the 
estate of Mrs F could have been caused any distress. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 20 October 2022, in which I set 
out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
NRAM has accepted it provided poor service on the call of 1 February 2022 and has 
apologised. So what is left for me to decide, is what the fair way to put things right is and if 
the compensation offered by NRAM was adequate and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I currently dont think it was, Ill explain why.
When Mrs F called, she had recently received the sad news of her terminal diagnosis and I 
think it was reasonable for her to want to find out what steps she needed to take to get her 
affairs in order.
Whilst I note the majority of the conversation was undertaken by Mr F, it is clear listening to 
the call Mrs F could hear and understand the issues Mr F was trying to resolve. I have no 
doubt that seeing Mr F get frustrated with the lack of empathy and understanding during the 
call would have caused her distress too.
NRAM only clarified the information Mrs F wanted in the final response, which was sent to 
her on 16 February 2022. But sadly, Mrs F passed away the following day, so I think it is 
unlikely she received this information. I think it is clear this would have been of significant 
concern for her during this time, I say this because NRAM were told by Mr F in the call what 
her worries were about the mortgage being in her sole name.
So it follows, I dont think the £100 offered by NRAM so far in respect of this goes quite far 
enough. Mr F has told us how this affected Mrs F and I dont doubt what hes said  I think 
this would have been the last thing that she would have wanted to worry about and its 
understandable how this had a direct impact on her. And its clear she could have been 
given clearer information in the call to ease some of her concerns. So, I think increasing this 
offer by a further £150, would be a more fair and reasonable way to address the distress and 
upset caused here to her at the time.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision and he was happy it was provisionally upheld, but 
he also said another business had made a higher award for a similar issue.
NRAM also responded to my provisional decision and said it accepted the conclusions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having done 
so, I have reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. 
Ive thought about what Mr F has said since my provisional decision, Id like to assure him 
Ive looked at the information provided by both parties, and Ive listened to the call with 
NRAM. I have to come to my decision based on the information and evidence in relation to 
this complaint and I still think increasing the total compensation to £250 is a fair way to 
address the upset caused at the time.  
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint against NRAM Limited. 
NRAM limited should pay The estate of Mrs F £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman