DRN-3225705
The complaint
Mr F complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance.
  
What happened
 Mr F was abroad when he left his mobile phone in the glove compartment of a locked car. 
On his return he found that the doors were unlocked and the phone (amongst other items) 
had been stolen. He reported the theft to the local police and obtained a reference number in 
addition to a report. 
He also reported the theft to his mobile phone provider and Assurant. During the claims 
process, Assurant believed that Mr F had given it incorrect information regarding the date of 
the theft and its usage. 
Further, Assurant asked Mr F to provide evidence from an official body who could indicate 
how the theft was carried out - as there was no evidence of forced entry into the car. 
Assurant believed that the car had been left unlocked by Mr F. Ultimately, Assurant declined 
the claim as it said, that it seemed more than likely that the car wasnt locked when the items 
were stolen. It also said that as there was no cover for that situation under the policy, the 
claim remained declined, due to Mr F not taking reasonable care.
Mr F wasnt happy and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered the 
complaint and upheld it. He said Assurant had been unreasonable to decline the claim as Mr 
F had complied with the policy terms and conditions. Mr F provided not only the police 
reference number but also a police report  which wasnt required under the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He said that the minor errors made by Mr F, could easily be made 
by anyone in these circumstances and those give Mr F no advantage, in his claim with 
Assurant. 
He concluded that Assurants requirement of a further report from an official body was 
unreasonable and unfair and no policyholder in Mr Fs circumstances would be able to 
obtain it, and its not mentioned at all in the policy document. So, he recommended that 
Assurant continue to assess the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. As well as 
pay Mr F £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr F accepted the view, Assurant did not. It said that as Mr F hadnt complied with the policy 
terms (as there was no evidence of how the car mightve been accessed) and didnt take 
reasonable care, so his claim was fairly declined. Assurant asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. I hope my findings go some way in explaining 
why Ive reached this decision.
Mr F held mobile device insurance with Assurant, this covered his mobile phone for theft 
amongst other things, including if his phone was abroad. Mr F was abroad when his phone 
was stolen from the glove compartment in a car that Mr F said was locked. The main issue 
of this complaint is whether Assurant fairly declined Mr Fs claim, in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Assurant has also mentioned that there were discrepancies made by Mr F 
during the claim.
I have considered the policy terms and under the section of Actions you will need to take on 
the loss, theft, breakdown or damage to your mobile device. The policy outlines what the 
policyholder needs to do if their phone is stolen. First, they must tell their mobile phone 
provider, second, they must report the theft to the police, which is further qualified in that 
policyholders who are abroad, have to report it to the relevant authorities and obtain a 
reference number.  
From what I can see, Mr F complied with all the requirements as outlined in the policy. 
Indeed, he also obtained a report from the police and gave that to Assurant, which according 
to the terms and conditions, Mr F didnt have to do.   
 Assurant wanted Mr F to obtain a further statement from what it said was an official body 
who it said could investigate how the car mightve been entered. But I dont think this is 
something that Mr F wouldve been able to obtain nor was it listed within the policy terms 
and Ill explain why.  Mr F would not have been in the position to direct the police or any 
other official body, in how it conducted the investigation of the theft of the phone. His only 
obligation was to tell the police of the theft of his phone. And Im satisfied that he did just 
that.  Consequently, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Assurant to decline the claim 
on the basis that Mr F couldnt produce a further report, that dealt with how the car was 
accessed.    
Assurant said that there were discrepancies made by Mr F. It said that Mr F had given them 
the incorrect date of the theft. I have listened to the call recordings and it is correct that Mr F 
mentioned another date. But, having read the police report, it states that Mr F reported the 
theft, the day after the phone had been taken. Assurant had the report which also confirmed 
that the theft had taken place the day before. So, Im satisfied that this was a genuine 
mistake rather than false information being provided.  
Assurant initially pointed out that the phone had stopped being used around a week before it 
had been stolen. But Mr F provided evidence to show that the phone had been in use until it 
had been stolen. Accordingly, I think this error made by Assurant, ought not to be held 
against Mr F, as the evidence shows that he had provided accurate information. 
Taking all the above into consideration, I do think that Assurant were unreasonable and 
unfair to decline Mr Fs claim. I find that Assurant didnt fairly apply the policy terms and were 
unreasonable in asking for a further report from an official body, which isnt a requirement 
under the policy. 
In addition, Im satisfied that Mr F wouldve suffered from an amount of distress and 
inconvenience because of Assurant unfairly declining his claim. As well as the unnecessary 
delay since the claim had been made. And I think its fair that this is reflected in 
compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Putting things right
I direct Assurant General Insurance Limited to put things right as I set out below. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to:
Replace the mobile phone, as per the policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mr F £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
Assurant General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman