DRN-2414341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) handled their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs K contacted NFU as a stop cock had split, causing water damage 
to their home. NFU paid to repair some structural damage and appointed a company 
(Company A) to remove and dry four oriental carpets that had got wet. The carpets were 
later sent to a specialist carpet cleaner (Company B). Mr and Mrs K say the carpets are now 
in a worse condition than when they were taken from their property and want NFU to accept 
their claim for damage to the carpets. NFU asked another specialist carpet restorer 
(Company C) for their view on the condition of the carpets and the owner of Company B was 
asked to give his view as well. Mr and Mrs K later paid another independent carpet expert 
(the carpet specialist) to look at the evidence and provide a report. NFU accepted thered 
been a delay in resolving the claim and offered £75 for that. But it didnt believe the damage 
to the carpets was caused by either the escape of water or the restoration process, and it 
declined the claim. 
Our investigator thought NFU had unfairly declined the claim for two of the carpets, but not 
the other two. She didnt think there was enough evidence to say NFU had acted unfairly in 
declining the claims for the Persian carpet or the Kashmir machine woven carpet. But she 
said the report from the carpet specialist said there had been significant colour change to the 
Afghan carpet, which was consistent with inexperienced cleaning and seemed to have 
occurred while in the possession of Company A. Our investigator also thought Mr and Mrs K 
had provided enough evidence to prove their claim for damage to the Indian Kashmir carpet. 
So, she recommended NFU pay a total of £6,800 for those two carpets (subject to any 
excess), plus the £75 already offered, which she thought was fair compensation for the delay 
in considering the claim. 
Mr and Mrs K also asked NFU to consider several costs theyd incurred. Our investigator 
thought NFU should reimburse them for the £30 cost of seeking an experts opinion, but not 
for the costs involved in approaching a solicitor, or for the costs theyd incurred in presenting 
evidence to NFU.
NFU didnt agree with the investigators view as it didnt think the evidence supported it. The 
complaint has therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances
Afghan carpet
This carpet was only wet in one corner when it was collected from Mr and Mrs Ks home by 
Company A. Ive seen photographs of the carpet before it was collected and Ive compared 
those to photographs of the carpet taken in Company As warehouse. Mr and Mrs K said the 
colours had faded and the carpet had become orange and patchy compared to the original 
rich wine colour. And the photographs support that description. What I need to decide is how 
and when that fading happened.
NFU accepts the evidence from the specialists that the fading on the carpet is consistent 
with inexperienced cleaning. But it said the specialist commissioned by Mr and Mrs K was 
under the mistaken impression the carpet was cleaned by Company A, when that was not 
the case. It said Company A only dried the carpet and it must have been cleaned before the 
escape of water in Mr and Mrs Ks home. It said the specialist at Company B had suggested 
that if the carpet had either got wet historically or had been poorly cleaned at some point in 
the past, the fade wouldnt have been immediately apparent and might not have been 
noticed by Mr and Mrs K.
The evidence isnt conclusive. But having carefully considered all the evidence available to 
me, Im more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks account of whats most likely to have happened 
to this carpet. Photographs were taken at the time the carpet was collected by Company A 
and there seems to be a marked difference in colour between the carpet at that time 
compared to the later photographs taken when in the possession of Company A. I cant 
speculate on what happened to the carpet in between times but, on balance, I think its more 
likely than not the carpet was damaged after it was collected by Company A. So, I think NFU 
should take responsibility for the damage caused to the Afghan carpet.
Indian Kashmir carpet
The photographs taken in Company As warehouse show damage to one corner of this 
carpet, and patchy colouring in some areas. Theres one photograph of this carpet on the 
day it was collected. Mr and Mrs K say the photo shows that all four corners of the carpet 
were undamaged at the time and the colours were clean and even. So, they believe the 
carpet was damaged while in the possession of Company A.
Ive looked very carefully at the photograph taken on the day this carpet was collected, but I 
dont agree you can see all four corners. One of the corners is folded over and the other 
corners arent clearly shown. I also note that one of the specialist restorers thought the 
damage to the corner was historic and consistent with having been chewed by a dog (even 
though Mr and Mrs K said theyve not had a dog for a number of years). While the specialist 
at Company B thought the damage might have been caused by the continuous use of a 
vacuum cleaner. Taken together, I dont think theres enough evidence to fairly conclude the 
damage to the corner of this carpet was caused by Company A. 
In the photographs presented by Mr and Mrs K theyve highlighted the colour variations in 
this carpet and I agree there seems to be a difference between the carpet pre and post 
collection from their home. There does seem to be some patchy areas in the initial 
photograph but this appears to be worse by the time photographs were taken in Company 
As warehouse. The specialist at Company C thought the cleaning and restoration process 
had simply highlighted pre-existing colour variations, which are often seen in carpets of this 
type. While the specialist at Company B didnt think the carpet had been damaged by the 
escape of water and said the variation in colour could be pile crush from normal use or 
fading caused by sunlight. 
On balance, and having considered all the information available, Im again more persuaded by the arguments put forward by Mr and Mrs K. The evidence suggests the carpet wasnt 
damaged by the escape of water and instead that the changes in colour occurred after the 
carpet had been collected from Mr and Mrs Ks home. And while I can understand how the 
cleaning and restoration process might have highlighted the pre-existing colour variations, I 
dont think that explains why the condition of the carpet changed so markedly when in the 
possession of Company A, who say they didnt clean the carpets. Again, I cant speculate on 
what happened but, on balance, I think NFU should take responsibility for the damage to this 
carpet. 
Persian carpet (Bidjar) and Kashmir machine woven carpet
Mr and Mrs K believe the colouring of the Persian carpet has changed since it was collected 
from their home, having become inconsistent and patchy with a difference in colour between 
one end of the carpet and the other. The photographs taken in Company As warehouse 
show the variations in pattern and colouring. But the only photograph taken at the time of 
collection doesnt show the full carpet - as it had been rolled up. So, I cant see whether 
theres been any change to the carpet. The specialist at Company B highlighted various 
reasons why the clarity and colour depth of carpets of this nature can look different when 
looking at it from different angles. And, on balance, I dont think theres enough evidence 
here to say it was unfair for NFU to decline the claim for this particular carpet.
The Kashmir machine woven carpet was completely wet following the escape of water 
incident and Mr and Mrs K say this caused some of the blue colouring to bleed into other 
parts of the carpet. The specialist at Company B thought the bleeding could be due to colour 
fusion but thought it strange it only occurred on one part of the carpet where the dyes are 
acid-fast. He thought it possible that at some time in the past a domestic cleaner was used 
on the carpet which would have weakened the dye. Mr and Mrs K dont agree. But the 
photograph of this carpet at the time it was collected doesnt show the full carpet and I cant 
see if theres any evidence of colour bleeding at this time. As such, and in light of the 
specialists comments, I think it was reasonable for NFU to decline the claim for this carpet.     
Costs incurred
Mr and Mrs K think NFU should reimburse them for the costs they incurred in pursuing their 
claim. They paid £30 for a report by the carpet specialist. They spent £2,400 on seeking 
advice from a firm of solicitors. And they spent £140 on photo posters to use in support of 
their claim. Our investigator thought NFU should only reimburse Mr and Mrs K for the cost of 
the specialists report, and I agree. NFU advised them to get a specialist report if they 
wanted to pursue their claim and, as it helped to clarify and resolve this claim, I think NFU 
should reimburse them for this cost. I can understand why they paid to have photo posters 
made up, but I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs K could have relied on the 
photographs already available. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask NFU to pay for those 
costs. And as this service provides a free alternative to the courts, Mr and Mrs K could have 
brought their complaint to us earlier than they did and avoided having to pay for solicitors to 
review their claim. I dont think it would be fair to ask NFU to reimburse them for those costs 
either. 
Compensation
NFU accept there was a three week delay by Company A transporting the carpets to 
Company B. NFU offered Mr and Mrs K £75 for the impact on them of that delay and, in the 
circumstances, I think that amount was reasonable. 
Putting things rightIn light of the above, I think NFU need to do more to put things right. I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for NFU to pay the claim for the Afghan carpet and the Indian Kashmir 
carpet, in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy and less any excess. 
The specialist at Company B valued the first at £4,950 and the second at £1,850. Those 
valuations reflect the market value at the time they were made and seem reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
NFU should also reimburse Mr and Mrs K the £30 cost of the specialist report they 
commissioned.
NFU has already paid Mr and Mrs K £75 for the poor service it provided and I think that 
amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr and Mrs K the following:
A total of £6,800 for the replacement of the two carpets referred to above, less any 
excess. It should add interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple annually from the 
date of the claim to the date of settlement1
£30 for the cost of the specialist report
£75 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service (if this hasnt already been 
paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs K how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.