DRN-3217613
The complaint
 Miss D has complained that HSBC Bank Plc charged her excessive amounts for her 
overdraft, contributing to her financial difficulties.
What happened
 Miss D complained to HSBC about the overdraft charges and interest that have been 
applied to her account from 2001 to 2008. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, and in its final 
response it also addressed charges that had been applied to Miss Ds account in more 
recent years. As Miss D was dissatisfied with HSBCs response she referred the complaint 
to our service.
HSBC has said that any complaint about charges applied to Miss Ds account before 2015 
has been made too late. 
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She agreed that Miss Ds 
complaint about charges from before 2015 had been made too late. She also explained that 
she felt the charges applied from 2015 onwards had been applied fairly. Miss D disagreed so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 November 2021, explaining why I 
felt that HSBC should refund charges that it had applied to Miss Ds account from January 
2017 onwards. HSBC did not respond to my provisional decision but Miss D accepted my 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint
made more than six years after whats being complained about happened, or if later, more
than three years after the complainant knew, or should reasonably have known, that they
had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found
online.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
Miss D has complained about charges applied to her account from 2001 onwards. This 
means that Miss D had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added in order to 
complain. Miss D didnt complain until 2021, so she complained more than six years after 
some of the events she is complaining about.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. So Ive considered whether DISP
2.8.2R (2)(b) provides Miss D with longer to complain here.
I think that in order for me to find that Miss D knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that
she had cause to complain, I need to be satisfied that she was aware the charges were
being applied, knew that those charges were contributing to her financial difficulties, and
knew that it was HSBC who was responsible for applying the charges.
Miss Ds statements would have set out the charges shes unhappy with. So I think that
she would have been aware of the charges that HSBC was applying to her account at the 
time. And shed have been aware of her financial circumstances during that period of time 
too, so shed have known whether she was able to afford to pay the charges. As this is the 
case, I think that Miss D also ought to have known whether the charges were too much or 
causing her difficulty. And I think shed have known that HSBC was responsible for applying 
those charges too. So I think Miss D would have known she had cause to complain as soon 
as the charges were applied, which means the three-year rule doesnt provide Miss D with 
longer to complain overall. And with this in mind, I think that her complaint about charges 
form before 2015 was made too late.
I can look at a complaint made outside of the time limit if Im persuaded that this was
because of exceptional circumstances. Miss D has told us about serious illnesses that were 
affecting her family members during this period that meant she wasnt focussed on bank 
charges and so didnt complain in time. I appreciate that Miss D was having a difficult time, 
and that this meant her bank charges were not a priority for her, but I dont think this means 
she couldnt complain, so I dont think exceptional circumstances were responsible for the 
delay.
I can though, look at charges applied to Miss Ds account from 2015 onwards.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that HSBC acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after January 
2017. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss D was in no position to sustainably 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss D was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time  over 6 months. HSBCs own literature suggests 
that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. I acknowledge that Miss D had received a large credit to her account in March 
2016, but once this was used up repaying credit card debt and for day to day spending, the  
account quickly went back into a significant overdrawn balance, where it largely remained 
until 2019. Miss Ds regular income was also well below what would be needed to clear her 
overdraft each month, so its difficult to say that there was any reasonable prospect of her 
repaying the overdraft in a reasonable period of time.
With all this in mind, I think that Miss Ds overdraft usage should still have prompted HSBC 
to have realised that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended and so it shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. As HSBC didnt react to Miss Ds overdraft usage 
and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Miss D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that HSBC didnt treat Miss D fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
Miss D accepted my findings, and as HSBC hasnt responded to my provisional decision I 
see no reason to change my findings.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ds complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it after January 2017 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Miss D to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ds 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman