DRN-3708880
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his 
Commercial Property Owners Insurance policy.
Reference to Mr F and Great Lakes includes anything said or done by their respective 
agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr F let his commercial property to a tenant. Some of the property was used by a 
sub-tenant as a cannabis farm. Damage was caused when they made alterations to 
the building and after the Police entered and removed the cannabis. Mr F said he 
couldnt re-let the property in its damaged condition, so hes incurred a loss of rent.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the initial damage was unauthorised 
alterations  misuse or poor maintenance rather than malicious damage. And the 
damage caused by the Police was a direct result of that, so it wasnt covered either.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the alterations 
to the property amounted to malicious damage and the damage caused by the Police 
hadnt been considered fairly either.
Mr F accepted what our investigated said. Great Lakes asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. Despite our investigator asking it why it disagreed with her opinion, it 
provided no further comments or evidence for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers loss or damage caused by, or arising from, malicious persons. The 
phrase malicious persons isnt defined in the policy. So the phrase should take its 
ordinary, everyday meaning. Great Lakes has declined the claim because it doesnt 
think any of the damage has been caused maliciously.
In its final response, Great Lakes said malicious damage was damage caused on 
purpose with an intent to do harm. There seems to be no doubt the damage caused 
to Mr Fs property was done so deliberately. But Great Lakes said that because it 
was done to aid the cultivation of cannabis, it wasnt malicious. I understand its 
seeking to draw a distinction between damage caused with a purpose, such as 
growing cannabis, and damage caused for the sake of it, such as arson or graffiti.
In my view, malicious damage is damage caused with the intent to do harm. And 
someone who causes such damage is a malicious person. I consider harm can 
include financial loss.
Its accepted the sub-tenant deliberately damaged the building when making 
alterations to facilitate the cannabis farm. It would have been quite clear when doing 
this that it would cost the building owner a substantial amount of money to put right. 
So the sub-tenant knowingly caused harm to Mr F. Im satisfied that means they were 
a malicious person when they caused the damage. That means damage was caused 
by malicious persons and the claim is covered by the policy.
I dont consider it relevant that the damage was caused to facilitate some other 
purpose. The policy simply covers damage caused by or arising from malicious 
persons  and thats what happened here. Had Great Lakes wanted to insure certain 
types of malicious damage only, or to give the phrase malicious persons a particular 
meaning, it ought to have specified that in its policy.
Photos show numerous large holes in walls. The repairs recommended include 
replacing doors, frames, architraves, windows, a bathroom suite and repairing walls 
and ceilings in many rooms. Great Lakes has described the damage as 
unauthorised alterations. Im not persuaded thats a reasonable description. But the 
policy doesnt exclude damage that could be described this way. So even if I agreed 
that was a reasonable description to use, it makes no difference. The damage was 
caused by malicious persons, so its covered.
When the Police caused damage, it didnt do so maliciously. But the policy covers 
damage caused by or arising from malicious persons. I consider the damage caused 
by the Police entering the building and removing the cannabis arose from the 
damage caused by the sub-tenant. Were it not for the sub-tenant altering the 
property to facilitate a cannabis farm, I dont think the Police would have had reason 
to attend the property and cause the damage. So Im satisfied the damage caused by 
the Police is also covered under the malicious persons section of the policy.
To put things right, Great Lakes should now accept the claim for the damage caused 
by the sub-tenants and the Police under the malicious persons section of the policy 
and subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy includes cover for rent receivable. I understand it only applies where a 
claim for loss or damage has been accepted, so I think thats why it hasnt been 
covered by Great Lakes. But now that the claim will be accepted, Great Lakes should 
go to on to consider the loss of rent claim too, subject to the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Accept the claim for the damage caused by the sub-tenants and the Police under the 
malicious persons section of the policy.
Consider the claim for loss of rent under the rent receivable section of the policy.
All subject to the terms and conditions of the policy.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman