DRN-3820650
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the service she received form HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding her 
request to reduce the credit limit on her credit account and her application for an overdraft on 
her current account.
What happened
In June 2021, Mrs T asked HSBC to reduce the credit limit on her credit account and later 
applied for an overdraft on her current account. HSBC didnt reduce the credit limit on the 
credit account as Mrs T had requested, and they didnt contact her about her overdraft 
application either. Mrs T wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint, and later also 
requested that HSBC close her credit account.
HSBC looked at Mrs Ts complaint. They apologised to Mrs T for the delays and lack of 
clarity in addressing her requests and concerns and confirmed that the credit account was 
now scheduled to be closed. HSBC also explained that her application for an overdraft was 
still being processed and that a member of the relevant team would contact Mrs T by 
telephone about this shortly. Finally, HSBC made a payment of £75 to Mrs T as 
compensation for any trouble and upset these matters may have caused.
HSBC then approved Mrs Ts overdraft application and applied the overdraft to her current 
account. However, nobody telephoned Mrs T about this as shed been promised. Mrs T 
wasnt happy about this, or with other aspects of HSBCs continuing service, so she asked 
for her complaint to be reopened.
HSBC looked at Mrs Ts ongoing complaint and acknowledged they hadnt made the call to 
her as promised. HSBC noted that Mrs T was concerned about a refund for £61.20 she was 
expecting to the closed credit account, and so as further compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience Mrs T had incurred, they paid that amount to Mrs Ts current account.
Mrs T remained unhappy with HSBC and continued to ask for the call from them that shed 
been promised as she had concerns about when her credit file would be updated to show 
the recent changes to her accounts. Mrs T also wanted to request copies of the statements 
for the closed credit account as these were no longer available to her online, and she also 
submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) around this time. 
HSBC responded to Mrs T and confirmed the credit file amendments had been requested 
but that these could take several weeks to be processed by the credit reference agencies. 
HSBC also asked Mrs T to provide a more specific request as to what information she 
required regarding the DSAR, as they felt Mrs Ts initial request was very broad and may 
result in them providing lots of information that Mrs T might not actually need. Mrs T 
continued to be unhappy with how HSBC were responding to her ongoing complaint, and so 
she referred her complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly towards Mrs T in how theyd managed the ongoing situation, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I feel its important to begin here by confirming the role and remit of this 
service and what we can and cant consider. For instance, as the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, this service is only permitted to consider complaints about regulated financial 
activities, and the remit of this service doesnt extend to complaints about how a business 
has handled a complaint  including how a business has handled a complaint about 
regulated financial activities.
I highlight this point because I note, for instance, that Mrs T is unhappy that HSBC wouldnt 
call her about her ongoing complaint but instead chose to communicate with her about her 
complaint via email. I can appreciate how this might have been frustrating for Mrs T. But, this 
aspect of Mrs Ts complaint is about how HSBC have handled her complaint, and so it isnt 
within the remit of what Im permitted to consider here, as explained above. 
Further information about the remit of this service can be found in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
Furthermore, this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and doesnt operate as 
such. This means that it isnt within the remit of this service for me to declare that HSBC 
have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw manner here. Such declarations would be for a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. It should also be noted that this service doesnt champion the cause of either 
the consumer or the business but assesses all complaints impartially. This means that Ill be 
focussing on whether I feel the outcomes that have occurred here are fair, given the full 
circumstances of this complaint, and within the remit of this service as described above.
In this instance, there are several points of complaint about which Mrs T is unhappy. For 
ease of reference Ive addressed these complaint points separately as follows:
Mrs Ts request for the credit limit on her credit account to be reduced.
Mrs T made a request online for the credit limit on her credit account to be reduced. HSBC 
responded to Mrs Ts request and asked her to confirm whether she wanted the credit limit 
reduction to go ahead. 
I can understand why Mrs T may question why such a confirmation was necessary, but 
HSBC have explained that because Mrs T had made the request online  i.e. via a channel 
where theres no direct personal interaction between HSBC and their customer, such as 
would have taken place had the request been made in branch or by telephone  its their 
policy to ask their customer to confirm their request. 
This seems reasonable to me, especially given that if HSBC had reduced the credit limit 
when first asked and if that request had for any reason not been genuine, there would be no 
guarantee that HSBC would be then able to restore the higher credit limit on the account. 
And so, I dont feel that HSBC acted unfairly towards Mrs T by asking her to confirm her 
request to reduce the credit limit as they did.Mrs Ts request to close her credit account
When Mrs T raised her initial complaint with HSBC on 23 June 2021, which included that 
Mrs T wasnt happy that the credit limit on her credit account hadnt been reduced as she 
requested, HSBC sent an automated acknowledgement of that complaint that same day. 
Mrs T then replied to that automated acknowledgement and requested that her credit 
account be closed. 
HSBC have said that because Mrs Ts complaint hadnt at that time been assigned to a 
complaint specialist that her reply to the automated acknowledgement wasnt read, and feel 
that if Mrs T wanted her credit account to be closed that she should have made the request 
via a more appropriate channel. But the automated acknowledgement sent by HSBC to Mrs 
T specifically states that Mrs T could and should reply directly to that acknowledgement. As 
such, I feel that it was incumbent on HSBC, having made that statement, to have ensured 
that any replies made by Mrs T were monitored.
However, the non-closure of Mrs Ts credit account was acknowledged by HSBC in their 
initial response to Mrs T complaint dated 9 August 2021, which apologised to Mrs T and 
awarded £75 compensation for any trouble and upset incurred. And I feel that this response 
does represent a fair resolution to this aspect of Mrs Ts complaint.
Mrs Ts application for an overdraft on her current account
Approximately ten days after Mrs T first requested the reduction of the credit limit on her 
credit account, she then applied to HSBC for an overdraft on her current account. This 
application was received by HSBC and referred to HSBCs underwriting team for 
assessment.
HSBC have confirmed that a member of their underwriting team suspended the application 
pending further investigation but incorrectly logged the further action required, meaning that 
Mrs Ts application didnt move forwards from that point.
This was also acknowledged by HSBC in its initial response to Mrs T complaint dated 9 
August 2021, when Mrs T was informed that an email had been sent to underwriting team 
member working on her application asking them to telephone Mrs T about this.
A few days later, Mrs Ts overdraft application was approved by HSBCs underwriting team 
and the overdraft was applied to the current account accordingly. Mrs T became aware that 
her overdraft application had been approved, but she remained unhappy that she hadnt 
been called by HSBCs underwriting team as shed been promised.
Again, I can appreciate Mrs Ts frustration here. But from an outcome perspective, the 
outcome that Mrs T wanted  the approval of her overdraft application  had taken place. 
HSBC acknowledged that Mrs T hadnt been called by their underwriting team in their 
second response to her complaint, dated 18 August 2021, when they provided further 
compensation of £61.20 to Mrs T. This seems fair to me. 
I say this because Im satisfied that a fair outcome had been reached, and because what 
HSBC were compensating Mrs T for here was that the approval of her overdraft application 
hadnt been confirmed to her by the underwriting team via telephone as shed wanted. And it 
must be noted that HSBCs underwriting team wouldnt have been able to assist Mrs T with 
anything other than the overdraft approval, even if they had called.
All of which means that Im satisfied that HSBCs response to this aspect of Mrs Ts complaint does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to Mrs T not receiving the 
confirmatory telephone call from HSBCs underwriting team as she would have liked. 
Expected refund of £61.20 to the closed credit account
Following the closure of her credit account, Mrs T contacted HSBC as she was concerned 
about a refund for £61.20 which she believed was due to be credited to that closed account. 
HSBC conducted a search of Mrs Ts historical credit account statements, but these didnt 
show a corresponding payment for £61.20. However, Mrs Ts current account statements did 
show a payment for £61.20 to the correct merchant and also showed that the refund for this 
amount from that merchant had been received into the current account. 
As such, Im satisfied that Mrs T was most likely mistaken in believing that the refund was 
due into her credit account, and that it had in fact already been received into her current 
account, from which the original payment to the merchant had been made.
Credit account access post-closure and statement request for closed credit account
Mrs T is unhappy that when her credit account was closed, she lost the ability to access the 
account online including that she couldnt view the historical account statements. This 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and Id expect the closure of an account to entail the 
restrictions of access that Mrs T describes, given that the account is now closed. 
This matter was addressed by HSBC in its third response to Mrs Ts complaint dated 24 
September 2021, when it was confirmed to Mrs T that its not a part of HSBCs account 
closure process to provide a detailed explanation as to what changes in access would take 
place when the account was closed. 
Additionally, Mrs T was unhappy that HSBC hadnt provided copies of her closed credit 
account statements as shed requested. But HSBC also addressed this point in their 
September 2021 response, and noted that while they had no record of Mrs T previously 
requesting these statements, the complaints investigator to whom shed recently spoken had 
now requested those for her. And its my understanding that Mrs T is now in possession of 
these statements.
All of the above seems reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that a fair outcome has been 
reached in regard to this aspect of Mrs Ts complaint, and so I wont be instructing HSBC to 
take any further actions in regard to these points.
Credit file amendments
Mrs T was concerned that her credit file hadnt been amended by HSBC to reflect the 
closure of her credit account. However, HSBC, like all credit providers, have an obligation to 
make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, although it can take several weeks 
for the credit reference agencies to implement the reports their receive so that the changes 
show on a consumers credit file.
This was explained to Mrs T by HSBC, and Im also satisfied that they did accurately report 
the status of the credit account to the credit reference agencies in a timely manner.
Data Subject Access Request
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is the regulatory body best placed to consider 
complaints about DSARs, and Im aware that Mrs T has already approached the ICO about this issue.
However, I note that when Mrs T first made her DSAR request to HSBC she requested all of 
my personal information on every account I hold with HSBC. 
HSBC responded to Mrs Ts request and asked her to be more specific with her request as it 
was felt the broad request that Mrs T had submitted might result in Mrs T being sent large 
amounts of information  such as six years of bank statements for her current account, 
about which she had no complaint  which she might reasonably not require.
HSBCs position here seems reasonable to me, and given that Mrs T appears not to have 
specified exactly what information she wanted, I dont feel that HSBC should be considered 
to have acted unfairly by not completing the DSAR in the timeframe that Mrs T wanted.
Mrs Ts ongoing dissatisfaction with HSBC
Its clear that Mrs T continues to be dissatisfied with HSBC, but I feel that this ongoing 
dissatisfaction is directed at how HSBC have chosen to handle her continuing complaint, 
which I feel is evidenced by Mrs Ts repeated requests for HSBCs complaints staff to 
contact her by telephone about her complaint.
But, as explained at the start of this letter, it isnt within the remit of this service to comment 
on how a business has handled a complaint  even a complaint about a financial matter. 
And so I dont feel that this is an aspect of Mrs Ts complaint that this service can consider. 
Summary
Its clear that Mrs T was unhappy with several aspects of the service she received from 
HSBC. But I feel that these issues have all been considered and addressed by HSBC and 
that fair and reasonable outcomes have been reached. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs T was wanting, but it follows that I dont feel that 
HSBC need to take any further action in regard to the aspects of her complaint that this 
service is permitted to consider, and that therefore I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing HSBC to do anything more.
I hope that Mrs T will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman