DRN-2518561
The complaint
Mr S complains that ReAssure Limited will not pay him a cash-lump sum in place of his 
annuity.
What happened
In 2006 Mr S agreed to purchase an annuity with ReAssure. The annuity was to be payable 
monthly for life. The annuity had an annual value of £400.82.
In 2019 Mr S raised a complaint with ReAssure after it refused his request for a cash lump 
sum in place of his annuity.
ReAssure explained that it had previously, in exceptional circumstances, allowed people to 
cash in their annuities. But it had since taken a business decision to no longer allow this. It 
said it had concerns it would provide fair values. And that the legislation allowed it to use its 
discretion.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought a complaint to our service. He explained that he 
and his wifes finances were tight as their mortgage has a couple of years left to run. And a 
lump sum now would help them with that and they had other pension income that was 
sufficient to live once the mortgage is paid.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained that he didnt 
think ReAssure had been unfair or unreasonable in continuing to honour the agreement to 
pay the annuity. And that legislation that allowed annuities to be cashed in was at the 
providers discretion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, legislation does permit annuities worth under £10,000 to 
potentially be cashed-in. But this is at the providers discretion. ReAssure has explained why 
it has chosen to no longer use this discretion.
The investigator considered Mr Ss circumstances and the circumstances of this case as to 
whether this was unfair or unreasonable. But he explained that having done so, he didnt 
think ReAssure had done anything wrong. And I agree.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration and why he thinks it would be fair to allow him to cash-in 
his annuity. I can also appreciate the reasoning ReAssure gave (that it was concerned this 
wouldnt be in customers best interests) would be doubly frustrating for Mr S as he has 
pointed out why it is in his best interests. But the legislation allows ReAssure to apply its 
discretion. And its explanation was based on a business wide decision and not specific to Mr 
S.
Whilst I can understand that Mr S feels he would be much better off with the cash lump sum 
than the annuity. And he therefore thinks the fair decision is to allow him to cash-in the 
annuity, we are an impartial service and we have to take into account the relevant legislation 
and the fairness of our decisions on both sides.
ReAssure agreed a contract to pay Mr S an annuity of £400.82 per year for the rest of his life 
in 2006. In essence Mr S bought this contract with the £7,258.65 that he had saved in his 
pension. To date it will have paid him approximately £5,600. 
If ReAssure were to pay Mr S a cash-lump sum now in place of the annuity, Mr S will have 
had the benefit of that annuity for 14 plus years and then an additional lump sum. This lump 
sum, wouldnt just be the difference between the original fund minus what hes been paid. It 
would be the cost of providing Mr Ss £400 a year annuity now. As annuities have become 
ever more expensive to provide, this would likely be much more expensive than the gap 
between the two aforementioned figures. So, I dont think in these circumstances ReAssure 
are being unreasonable in sticking to the agreed life-time annuity contract.
When the contract was drawn up, it wasnt envisaged that the annuity could be cashed-in as 
the legislation did not allow for this scenario. And so annuities werent designed to be 
cashed in or have a cash value. Whilst I can understand why cashing-in the annuity would 
be beneficial for Mr S, considering the legislation allows providers to use their discretion and 
the circumstances here, I cant say here that ReAssure are being unfair or unreasonable to 
Mr S.
Mr S has questioned whether ReAssures decision is based on it considering his best 
interests, or its own commercial and business interests. ReAssure says its a mixture of both. 
When Mr S bought his annuity, providers such as ReAssure designed their annuity products 
and the complex calculations required in working out a fair value (or a commercially 
competitive value) based on paying annuities to their customers for life. The legislation is 
enabling and not compulsory, so commercial interests are an acceptable consideration.
There are some other providers that are allowing annuities to be cashed in. But in my 
experience the majority of cases cashed in have generally been on annuities worth less in 
value than Mr Ss would cost to provide now. And where they dont provide a material level 
of income. Or the decision has been made for commercial reasons. I know that it may seem 
unfair that depending on who a customer has their annuity with, their access to this option 
differs. But Im afraid this is a product of the legislation, it allows the providers to make a 
choice.
We have seen some businesses changing their stance on cashing-in annuities. And if in the 
future ReAssure changes its position on cashing-in annuities or legislation changes, I would 
expect ReAssure to look into this again afresh for Mr S.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S and his wife are struggling financially and I know my decision will 
be disappointing for them. But to uphold a complaint I need to be able to justify that a 
business has done something wrong or needs to do more. And I dont think ReAssure has 
done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman