DRN-3789537
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined her claim when her dog was injured in a fight with another of her dogs. 
What happened
Miss J has four dogs. On 15 January 2022, whilst Miss J was having a shower, two of her 
dogs had a fight and one was badly injured. She says that the dogs have lived together 
harmoniously for eight years and an incident like this has never happened before.
Fortunately, the injured dog has made a complete recovery, but the bill for emergency 
veterinary treatment including an out of hours referral amounted to £963.47. Miss J 
submitted a claim to C&G but it declined her claim, saying it wouldnt cover any claim that 
result from her dog causing injury to itself or any other animals or persons. It says her dogs 
werent being monitored at the time of the fight and so were able to cause injury to 
themselves and each other and if Miss J had provided full attention to her dogs the fight 
couldve been prevented. It says her policy requires that dogs must be under control at all 
times and claims that arise from a dog being out of control and able to cause injury will be 
declined. It referred Miss J to the following terms of her policy: 
The following conditions apply to the whole of this Policy
 You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage, as well as arranging 
and paying for Treatment for Your pet to reduce the likelihood of Illness or Accidental 
Injury.
You must ensure Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or 
any other persons or animals.
Miss J says the care and attention term is unrealistic as shed have to be with all her dogs 
24/7 to avoid anything happening to them accidently. As she didnt think that C&Gs rejection 
of her claim was reasonable she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
agreed that C&Gs rejection was unreasonable. C&G doesnt agree with our investigators 
view so has asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. Its therefore been 
referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Miss Js complaint.
 
I agree with our investigator that the terms upon which C&G relies to reject Miss Js claim 
are unrealistic and unreasonable, and in the case of the term relating to escaping, 
inappropriate to the situation.
If it were seriously to be intended by the policy wording that a dog owner had to keep their 
dog within their sight or to give their attention to it at all times, which is necessary to ensure 
control, it wouldnt be possible, for example, for two dogs ever to be left unattended in the 
same room together. No claim for accidental injury, which is stated to be covered by the 
policy, could ever succeed. Such a wide-ranging exclusion would need to be highlighted as a 
significant exclusion, but it isnt even mentioned in the Insurance Product Information 
Document. There was no history of previous incidents involving any of Miss Js dogs as the 
aggressor which mightve required some reasonable precautions to be taken. I dont 
consider that there were any reasonable precautions Miss J shouldve taken that she failed 
to take. 
My conclusion is that C&G has acted unfairly and unreasonably in rejecting Miss Js claim 
and in addition to settling her claim it would be reasonable for it to pay her £150 
compensation for the distress and upset of having such a claim rejected.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above. Im upholding Miss Js complaint. 
I require I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:
1. to settle Miss Js claim subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy. 
2. to pay Miss J interest on the sum so paid to her at the simple rate of 8% from the 
date of her claim to the date payment is made to her.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Miss J how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
3. to pay Miss J compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman