DRN-3055068
The complaint
Miss J complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss J entered into a HPA with VWFS to acquire a new car in 2019. On 9 April 2021, the 
clutch started to smell, and the car then broke down. She says she had to get the car towed 
to a dealers showroom at the cost of £160. The car was checked, and she was told it would 
need a new clutch because of the way the car had been driven. She says she had to pay 
£1,400 for a new clutch and had to hire a car while the work was being carried out as a 
courtesy car wasnt initially offered.
Miss J says she had only driven the car 16,000 miles over two and a half years and had a 
previous similar car for five years with no issues. She says that she has heard of other 
people having the same issue and thinks it is a manufacturing fault. She says that although 
the clutch has been fixed it still makes a noise.
VWFS issued a final response letter in April 2021. It said that as the complaint was raised 
more than six months after acquisition the onus was on Miss J to show that the car was 
faulty at the point of supply. It said it had no evidence that Miss Js car was inherently faulty 
from supply.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA 2015) goods supplied should be of satisfactory quality. As Miss Js car was new 
at acquisition she thought it would be reasonable to say it should be free from faults at that 
time and for a reasonable period. She accepted that there was an issue with the clutch on 
Miss Js car which meant it needed to be replaced. She also noted the other issues identified 
in regarding a USB port, and two tyres and two brake pads.
However, our investigator noted when the issues arose and the miles that had been driven 
by that time and didnt think there was evidence to say that there was an inherent fault with 
the clutch. She noted the other issues but said these were wear and tear issues. Based on 
the evidence she thought the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and so 
didnt think VWFS was required to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Miss J didnt agree with our investigators view. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J acquired a new car through a HPA with VWFS. Under the regulations, specifically the 
CRA 2015, VWFS can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the vehicles age and mileage 
and whether the car was sufficiently durable.
Miss Js car was new at acquisition and so it is reasonable that she would expect it to be free 
from faults, including minor defects at that time and that it would remain free from faults for a 
reasonable period of time.
Miss J has explained that in April 2021, the car broke down due to the clutch failing. By this 
time Miss J had been driving the car for over two years and based on the evidence of the 
clutch repair, the car had been driven over 17,000 miles. Having reviewed the vehicle history 
there were no issues raised before this that would suggest a previous issue with the clutch 
or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
I note Miss Js comments about having a previous car for five years with no issues and the 
comments made about her driving style. The clutch is a wear and tear item and while we 
would expect it to last a reasonable period, there isnt a set amount of time it will last and the 
type of driving and driving style will have an impact on the life of the clutch. In this case, 
given the length of time Miss J was able to drive the car and the mileage she covered before 
the clutch failed I do not find I can say without further evidence that the clutch was faulty, or 
faults were developing, at the point of supply.
Miss J has said that after the clutch was replaced she was still experiencing issues. 
However, the health check carried out in July 2021 didnt find any issues with the clutch. I 
also note Miss Js comment about other people experiencing the same issue. But, my 
decision is based on the information specific to this case and I do not find I have enough to 
say that the clutch was faulty at the point of supply, and so I cant hold VWFS liable for this.
The health check carried out in July 2021 raised some other issues including the need to 
replace in the near future two tyres and the front brake pads as well as an immediate need 
regarding a damaged USB and service indicator being on. However, these issues would be 
considered wear and tear items on a car and again given the time Miss J had the car it is 
reasonable that certain items would have worn and need replacement.
Overall, while I can understand why Miss J is upset that the clutch failed on her car after just 
over two years, I do not find that I have enough to say the issues were caused by faults that 
were present or developing at the point of supply. Based on the evidence I dont find I can 
say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and so I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Miss J has also complained that she wasnt provided with a courtesy car while her car was 
being repaired and about the service she received at that time. I appreciate this would have 
been upsetting but as this complaint is against VWFS I can only hold it responsible for the 
service it has provided in response to this issue and as I havent upheld this complaint I 
cannot say that VWFS is required to do anything in response to the period of time that 
Miss J was without her car for repair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman