DRN-1901299
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc failed to alert her that a payment was needed onto 
her card.
What happened
Ms M said shed missed a payment onto her credit card account, because she didnt know 
she owed Santander any money. She said it didnt send her a statement or notification that 
one had been produced, and it didnt contact her about the payment. She said even when 
she logged in afterwards, she wasnt told the payment was due, and a text asking her to 
make a payment didnt tell her that her card had also been blocked.
Ms M was very unhappy with how Santander had handled this. She also told us that there is 
no way to tell when you log in to Santander's online banking, whether a minimum payment 
has been made or not. Santanders system still asks for the minimum payment every time, 
even if shes already paid more than that.
Ms M wanted Santander to refund the interest and late fee shed been charged, remove any 
late payment marker from her credit file, and compensate her for the stress and anxiety 
shed faced as a result of Santanders lack of communication.
Ms M said shed had call backs promised on four occasions which hadnt happened. Shed 
been hung up on three times. She said her complaint wasnt initially logged, and an eventual 
response had simply ignored many of the points she was complaining about.
Santander didnt think it had got anything wrong. It said Ms M is registered for electronic 
statements, so she wouldnt get a letter about her statement, just an email. It said shed paid 
just before her February 2019 statement, but then made no minimum payment during that 
statement period. It had written to her on 21 March, on the same day she made her 
payment. The letter was issued before she did that. Santander said the letter explains she 
can ignore it if shes already paid.
Santander sent us evidence of Ms Ms credit record, to say that no late payment had been 
recorded for February or March 2019. It said it would usually, as a gesture of goodwill, 
refund one set of late payment fees and interest, and it hadnt offered to do that in this case. 
It would do so now, if Ms M would like.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Santander had 
notified Ms M about her February statement, and that statement made clear that a payment 
was due. Our investigator thought Santanders call handler shouldve been able to explain to 
Ms M how the complaints system worked, or direct her to that information. Santander did 
respond to Ms M's complaint in writing on 4 April, then again on 15 April. Santander has 
shown that it sent these by secure message. So it responded within the appropriate 
timescales.Our investigator said Santander had shown us a copy of Ms Ms credit record, which showed 
it wasnt impacted by the late payment. Our investigator shared Santanders offer to refund 
the late payment fee and interest, and said she thought this was a fair resolution.
Ms M said shed accept Santanders offer. But she didnt think that all her complaint points 
had been dealt with. She said she was complaining about how many times shed been 
promised a call back, which never came. And she said Santanders online system was 
wholly inadequate. It didnt update to show that a minimum payment had been made, it just 
kept asking for that payment throughout the month. She was constantly worried that the 
minimum hadnt been paid. She said that needed to be addressed as part of her complaint.
Our investigator asked Ms M for more information, so she could look at these points. Ms M 
said that to investigate her complaint we should already have listened to the calls. And she 
thought wed said this hadnt affected her credit file, she didnt think it should be her 
responsibility to check that.
Ms M said when Santander responded to her complaint, it hadnt properly dealt with the 
issues shed raised. She thought Santander was aware of a number of failings, which is why 
it reopened the complaint. She said Santanders complaint handling was atrocious, and this 
made up an extremely large part of her complaint.
Ms M felt wed contradicted ourselves about whether we had or had not seen her credit file. 
And she sent us screenshots to show that Santanders online system still shows a payment 
due even after its been made. She said that made it impossible to keep track of whether 
anything was owed that month or not.
Ms M wanted her case to be passed to an ombudsman, so it came to me to be resolved.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then:
First, Ill look at why Ms Ms payment was late, and as part of that, Ill deal with her complaint 
about Santanders online system. Then, Ill look at the issues shes raised about how 
Santander responded to this complaint.
Id like to let Ms M know before I start that some of the concerns shes raised are 
unfortunately not things our service can provide a formal response on. Ill explain that further 
as I deal with the points raised.
Ms M said she didnt get any notification from Santander that her payment was due. 
Santander has shown us that it sends her webmail messages for this, and that a statement 
was produced for February 2019. I think its more likely than not that a webmail was sent to 
Ms M. It wouldnt be Santanders fault if that wasnt received. And I can also see that Ms M 
accessed her online banking during this statement period.
Ms M says that Santanders online system is part of the problem, because the overview of 
her account doesnt update to acknowledge that a minimum payment has been made. She 
said that makes it impossible to manage her account. But my understanding of Santanders 
online banking is that it also allows Ms M to access recent payments from and to the 
account. So I dont think that Santanders online system is unfair or unreasonable. Ms M has 
argued strongly that this system could be significantly improved, to be much more user 
friendly. I understand the point she makes here. But our service isnt a regulator, and we 
cant suggest general service improvements to Santander.Ive considered what Ms M has said about why her payment was late. Ive not been able to 
establish that its more likely than not that this was Santanders fault. So I won't ask 
Santander to do more about this.
I know that Santander has offered to refund the late payment fee to Ms M as a one-off 
goodwill gesture. I expect that offer is still open to Ms M. But it's not part of my award here. 
That's because Santander has told us that would be a one-off payment. If Ms M accepts this 
now, she may not be able to ask for this again in the future. I'm not clear that this was 
explained to Ms M, so I'll leave it to her to contact Santander now if she does want to take up 
this offer. 
I think there has been some confusion about whether the late payment has affected Ms Ms 
credit file. Santander showed us part of her credit file, which suggests to me that a late 
payment wasnt recorded for February or March 2019. That means its likely, as our 
investigator suggested, that this payment hasnt affected her credit score. But banks 
themselves dont see the same information that is made available to consumers. I think 
thats why our investigator suggested that Ms M might like to check this herself.
Ms M hasnt sent her credit file to us. Shes not obliged to do so, and I dont think I need that 
information now to resolve this complaint. Thats because Ms M did pay late, and Ive not 
been able to establish that this was Santanders fault. So even if a late payment marker had 
shown for that month, I wouldnt have asked Santander to remove it.
Ms M also said that our service hadnt looked at how her complaint was handled. She said 
that formed an extremely large part of her complaint. But unfortunately, how a bank deals 
with issues about how its handled a complaint isnt something we normally have the legal 
power to deal with.
The initial matter that somebody complains about is something we can look at  as Ive done 
here. But how Santander then handled Ms Ms complaint isnt what is known as a regulated 
activity. Our rules only allow us to look at regulated activity.
Ms M wants us to look at this. But if I changed the outcome in this case, and made an award 
for something that isnt a regulated activity, it might not be enforceable. And that wouldnt 
help Ms M.
This is a fine distinction to draw in terms of what is  and equally what isnt  a regulated 
activity. But I know how important this issue is to Ms M. We have the calls she had about this 
with Santander, and Ive listened to them.
I think that Santanders service, in terms of how it handled Ms Ms complaint, could clearly 
have been better. I think its particularly unfortunate that the person Ms M first spoke to 
wasnt able to run through the complaints procedure for her. And that a reply then appears to 
have been sent which doesnt clearly deal with further written communication by Ms M about 
her complaint. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant tell Santander to pay Ms M more 
because of this.
Because I dont think Santander has to do more on the parts of this complaint that I can deal 
with, I wont ask it to do so now. I know Ms M will be disappointed, but I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Santander said it had nothing to add. Ms M didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman