DRN-3994207
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Savings and Investments (NSI) wouldnt allow her access to 
her joint account savings.
What happened
Miss R held a joint savings account in the name of herself and her husband. But Miss R
didnt take her husbands surname when they married. Very sadly, Miss Rs husband passed
away on 26 April 2022. Miss R contacted NSI on 12 July 2022 - because she needed access
to some of the money for funeral expenses and accommodation. She had tried to make a
withdrawal online but found that the account had been blocked. NSI told her that they
needed to see her marriage certificate to allow her access to the funds  as the account
wasnt in their married names. The joint account was transferred into Miss Rs sole name on
8 August 2022 and a withdrawal of £50,000 was then made on 17 August 2022, leaving a
balance of £51,001.
Miss R complained. She argued that under the rule of survivorship, the joint account savings
automatically passed to her. She said that NSI didnt need to see the marriage certificate 
and for them to ask for it was sexist and discriminatory. She also said she sent in a copy of
the marriage certificate as requested, but then had to provide the original. She needed to
withdraw money urgently to pay bills that were due  including funeral expenses and
temporary accommodation. She therefore had to rely on an overdraft facility and loans from
family and friends to see her through. She also found NSI insensitive in dealing with her
situation, and they continually referred to their back office to deal with issues.
NSI said where investments are held jointly and in different surnames, they needed to see a
copy or original marriage certificate, before transferring the savings into a sole name. They
apologised that Miss Rs copy marriage certificate (which she had sent in) hadnt been
accepted and she hadnt been told that. NSI asked to see the original certificate, or a
certified copy. They paid two amounts of compensation - £45 and £50.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that the rule of survivorship
shouldve applied and the savings shouldve been transferred into joint names without
having to see the marriage certificate. She said Miss R should receive compensation of £400
 Miss R agreed.
But NSI then gave more information and said that under the legislative rules that NSI must
follow  if an account has a balance of £50,000, they need to ensure that no Inheritance Tax
(IHT) is payable before releasing funds. They can do that by seeing a Grant of Probate, or
other proof that IHT has been paid. But that isnt needed where the survivor is the deceased
spouse or civil partner. Therefore  thats why NSI asked to see the marriage certificate. And
then, the account couldve been transferred into Miss Rs sole name.
In view of this further evidence, our investigator issued a second view. She revised her
opinion  and said she could see why the marriage certificate needed to be shown to NSI.
But because NSIs explanation of it had been poor, she still awarded a lower amount of
compensation - £75.
Miss R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
I reached a provisional decision in which I said:
The context of Miss Rs complaint is important here  she suffered the sad death of her
husband on 26 April 2022 and needed access to the joint account funds to pay funeral
expenses, and secure accommodation - she told us she needed to do that. She assumed
that she could withdraw money as she was a party to the joint account, and as she was the
surviving party to it. And so  when she contacted NSI on 12 July 2022, to be told that wasnt
possible must have been very upsetting and stressful. That very much comes across in her
correspondence with us. And she felt that NSI were being unreasonable and discriminatory
in not applying the rule of survivorship and not allowing her access to the money without
seeing a marriage certificate.
I asked NSI several further questions. And they came forward with a further clarification  for
which I am very grateful.
In summary, I found there were a number of errors by NSI here  as while they acted
correctly and in line with the legislation that they operate by, they misadvised Miss R in their
final response; and NSI shouldve been able to release the funds much earlier on the back of
a solicitors letter and coroners certificate sent to them on 16 June 2022; and I found their
call handlers to be insensitive to Miss Rs situation, and deferred to taking instructions from
another internal department.
NSI explained to our investigator that they must operate in line with the legislation  the
National Savings (No. 2) Regulations 2015. This is included in NSIs operating processes.
And it says that where a balance of over £50,000 is held in joint names, NSI must ensure
that IHT has been paid, or isnt payable. But this is not required where the survivor is the
deceaseds spouse or civil partner  in other words, NSI could complete the IHT check by
asking to see the marriage certificate. So  they were correct to ask for it. But  they didnt
explain that to Miss R.
In NSIs final response, they didnt explain things clearly. As it said on the death of a
customer, investments held jointly will only automatically pass to the surviving holder if they
are married. If the holders are not married, we would be required to request sight of a Grant 
of Probate, before we can process a claim. So  that was misleading. I also listened to the
calls between Miss R and NSI on 13 July 2022  and the call handler simply said they
needed to see the marriage certificate, without any explanation  so that wasnt helpful to
Miss Rs understanding either.
I can see that Miss Rs solicitors wrote to NSI on 16 June 2022  and said they were acting
in Miss Rs late husbands affairs and evidenced a copy of the corners certificate dated 9
May 2022. The certificate described Miss R's late husband as being just that  and so it
certified they were married, and therefore - there shouldnt have been any need to see
marriage certificate at all. NSI have now come forward with that clarity  for which we are
grateful. But my finding is that NSI shouldve relied on that document - and if they had, then
Miss R wouldve had much earlier access to her funds and avoided the stress and upset that
she suffered from then on.
I listened to the calls between Miss R and NSIs call handlers on 12 July 2022 and 13 July
2022. Unfortunately I have to say I found them insensitive to Miss Rs situation  its not
clear if NSIs internal records showed that Miss Rs husband had died  I presume they must
have as the account had been blocked - but they didnt express any sympathy or condolence
and appeared process- driven. And said they had to defer to another internal department who werent answering their phone, so they couldnt help. That happened on two successive
days  on 12 July 2022 and then on 13 July 2022. Therefore, the call handlers couldnt help
Miss R resolve her issue.
On the first call on 13 July 2022, the call handler opened a complaint for Miss R. He said it
would mean that she could get access to her money quicker. He paid compensation of £45
and closed the complaint on the same day  so Im not sure how that was going to resolve
Miss Rs core need - to get access to her money.
And on the second call on 13 July 2022, in advising Miss R that her (original) marriage
certificate was needed (because that was what the back-office team had told the call
handler)  then it would take several more days for her to make a withdrawal. Unfortunately,
the call handler didnt explain why the document was needed  and in all honesty, I doubt if
he could be expected to explain  as he was being directed by the separate bank office
team.
But  the consequence was that Miss R became more upset and frustrated at what she
considered was an unreasonable position for NSI to take. Miss R has argued that it would
have made sense if she couldve spoken directly to NSIs back-office team (I assume it was
their bereavement team). We cant tell NSI how to organise their operations  but I would
only observe that in Miss Rs situation, it didnt help by her having to deal with a call handler
who was being directed by another department.
NSI also confirmed there had been some confusion over the receipt of Miss Rs marriage
certificate  and in their final response, paid compensation of £50 in recognition of that 
which I think was a fair thing to do.
Therefore, I dont think NSI acted reasonably here, and it resulted in a poor experience for
Miss R  at a time where she had suffered the loss of her husband; and was having to deal
with his affairs and everything that goes with it. I think its only reasonable therefore that NSI
should pay an additional amount of compensation in addition to the £95 theyve already paid.
I intend this to be £400, and that is line with what we would expect to see and reflects the
sad circumstances in which Miss R found herself.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Miss R and NSI agreed with my findings.
I now need to make a final decision. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both NSI and Miss R agreed with the provisional decision, Im not departing from it in 
making my final decision. So  NSI must do what I suggested in it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And National Savings and Investments must:
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £400. This in addition to the £95 
already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman