DRN-2146220
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here 
was around four years old and had completed about 46,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if the engine failed only eight months after they had taken receipt 
of it even if during those eight months the car had completed more than average mileage. I 
think a reasonable person would expect a car of this age and mileage to last significantly 
longer before such a catastrophic failure. So, Im not persuaded this car has been suitably 
durable and I therefore dont think it has been of satisfactory quality.
And, even if Im wrong about that, I dont think this car was of satisfactory quality when Mr R 
took receipt of it. I say that because the manufacturer has accepted the fault with the engine 
is a known failure and have offered to pay for the repair. I dont think theyd have done that if 
the fault had developed through wear and tear and I think their acceptance of the costs is 
proof the fault was most likely developing at the onset of this finance agreement and 
probably before it. 
Mr R has explained that the car has suffered some further faults since the engine was 
replaced. There was a loose induction pipe and a knock and air sensor malfunction. Ive not 
seen evidence that these faults are linked to the engine replacement or that they were 
developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr R. 
Relevant legislation would suggest that, given the amount of time Mr R has been in 
possession of the vehicle, the onus is on him to demonstrate those additional faults are 
either linked to the engine replacement, and therefore represent a failed repair, or have been 
developing since the car was supplied to him, when MotoNovo where responsible for its 
quality. Ive not seen sufficient evidence thats the case, so I dont think MotoNovo need to 
take any further action with regard to those issues  such as allowing Mr R to reject the car.
Mr R has explained that the car broke down again in October this year; this time it was 
because of a coolant sensor. Thats not something that MotoNovo have been able to 
consider and I think its only fair for them to be allowed to do so. If Mr R is still concerned 
about this he may therefore wish to raise a further complaint with MotoNovo.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair the vehicle. That repair 
has taken place and the costs have been covered by the manufacturer. 
But, Mr R took the car to the dealership on 15 August 2019 and didnt get it back until 
December 2019. A courtesy car was not provided. In those circumstances it would not be 
fair for him to be paying for a car he had no access to. 
MotoNovo should therefore refund the monthly instalments hes paid whilst the car has been 
off the road and, as Mr R has been insuring that car and could not reasonably cancel the 
insurance, they should refund the insurance for the period the car was off the road too.
Mr R has been deprived of that money so MotoNovo should add interest to the refunds.
Mr R has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take the car to be 
repaired and hes had to progress his complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier on the information provided. In those circumstances, MotoNovo should 
provide £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
refund any finance instalments paid by Mr R for the period when the car was off the 
road between August and December 2019. Add 8% simple interest to this refund 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund Mr Rs insurance premiums for this period and add 8% simple interest to this 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman