DRN-4039107
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Aspray Ltd managed the repairs to his home following a claim on 
his home insurance for subsidence. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr K made a claim on his home insurance for subsidence. The insurer accepted the 
claim and identified vegetation as the cause. It removed this and monitored the property, 
then work began on repairs. However Mr K was unhappy with how the insurer had handled 
the claim. And in 2021 he appointed his own loss assessor to take on the management of 
the claim related work  Aspray. 
The insurer provided a scope of work for the claim related repairs and Aspray appointed 
contractors to fulfil this. Work began in January 2022. However Mr K was unhappy with how 
the work progressed. He said the workmanship was poor and Aspray werent utilising all of 
the budget provided by the insurer, but were hiding some of it. In March 2022 he asked them 
to stop work and made a complaint. 
In April 2022 the insurer issued a cash settlement based on eth scope of works, in order for 
Aspray to carry out the required repairs. However Mr K wasnt happy for the repairs to 
continue as he said there was claim related work that needed doing that Aspray werent 
agreeing to cover. In May 2022 Aspray issued its final response to Mr Ks complaint and 
didnt uphold it. Mr K subsequently brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said this service can only 
consider matters up until the insurer paid out the cash settlement, as it is only up until this 
point that Aspray were carrying out a regulated activity. And she didnt think it had acted 
unfairly in how it handled the claim. 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators outcome. He responded with a number of points, but 
in summary he was unhappy because:
The work carried out by Aspray was not to a good standard and this hadnt been 
addressed.
Aspray had concealed the true budget provided by the insurers, saying there was less 
money available than there was. 
Aspray had asked for more money towards the work, even though it should all be 
covered by the insurer. 
There had been further damage to the electrics due to the subsidence but Aspray 
hadnt agreed to cover these repairs. 
The house has been left in a poor state with incomplete repairs and tools from the 
contractors.
The situation has had a significant impact on Mr K and his brothers mental health. 
Mr K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I consider the merits, I need to be clear about what I can and cant look at as part of 
this complaint. Firstly, this service can only consider complaints about businesses carrying 
out activities that are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). A loss assessor 
can carry out the regulated activity of assisting in the administration and performance of a 
contract of insurance. 
However this can only be carried out while the claim is in the process of being considered 
and settled. Once the claim is settled by the insurer, then the contract of insurance has been 
fulfilled, which means any activity the loss assessor carried out after this point isnt 
considered a regulated activity. Therefore this service only has the jurisdiction to consider a 
loss assessors actions up until the claim is settled. In this case the insurer cash settled the 
claim on 29 April 2022. So I can only consider Asprays actions up until this date. 
Further, the mandate Mr K signed with Aspray made it responsible for carrying out the 
insured work in receipt of money paid by the insurer. This means Aspray was responsible for 
carrying out the work covered by the insurance. However Aspray has no responsibility for 
the settlement of the claim or decisions on policy cover. That is entirely the responsibility of 
the insurer. I can only hold Aspray accountable for areas it is responsible for, so I can 
consider how it managed Mr Ks claim and the repairs it carried out but I cant consider what 
was included under the insurance cover or the amount of the cash settlement. As these are 
entirely the responsibility of the insurer. 
Mr K has raised a number of concerns about this claim. As this is an informal service, Ive 
not responded to every point hes raised individually. Instead Ive focussed on the things I 
consider to be most relevant to my outcome. However I wish to reassure Mr K that Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided.
Budget inaccuracies
Mr K has said he thinks Aspray have been concealing the true budget for the work and has 
said that the budget for the floor is less than has been included in the cash settlement. 
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr K and Aspray and I dont agree this is a fair 
assessment. Firstly, as I understand it, the scope of works was sent to both Aspray and Mr K 
by the insurer, so they both have all the information about whats been included in the 
settlement. 
Further, Mr K has had specific requirements about the floor he wanted to be refitted in the 
property. And Aspray has consistently tried to find ways of meeting all Mr Ks requirements 
while still keeping to the budget of the cash settlement. This included it offering some work 
as a goodwill gesture for no charge.
I know its been frustrating for Mr K to be asked for extra funds to cover some of the work he 
has requested. But this is because the specification of the flooring he has asked for is above 
that included in the cash settlement. Aspray has to ensure the work carried out fits within the 
budget the insurer has provided, so I cant say it has acted unreasonably by requesting extra 
funds for high priced flooring. 
Based on the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Aspray has acted unfairly in 
how its tried to manage the budget provided by the insurer. Additional work not included
Mr K has said there are some repairs that need carrying out that have been caused by the 
subsidence but havent been included in the repairs schedule, such as repairs to the 
electrics. 
As Aspray arent responsible for making decisions about what work is covered under the 
claim, this isnt something I can consider as part of a complaint against it. Any concerns 
about work not included in the scope of work should be directed to the insurer directly to 
address. 
House left in unacceptable condition
Mr K has provided photos of how the house was left after repair work stopped. While I can 
see it hasnt been left in a tidy state, this is in part due to the fact the repairs were yet to be 
completed. And because Asprays contractors were asked to leave part way through the 
work. Ive not seen enough evidence to show that the repair work hasnt been completed to 
standard. And would suggest a better assessment could be made once the repair work has 
been completed. 
General conduct of loss assessor
Mr K has also complained about poor communication from the loss assessor. Having 
reviewed the correspondence provided from both sides, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Aspray has provided a poor service. It has often gone out of its way to accommodate Mr Ks 
requests and tried to ensure this is at no extra cost where it could. And it has kept Mr K 
updated regularly throughout. 
For these reasons Ive found Aspray has acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of Mr Ks 
claim. And I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman