DRN-1351431
 
The complaint
Ms D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined her home emergency insurance 
claim and about its service. My references to UKI include its agents.
Ms D will see that my decision is about a different business to the businesses referred to in 
correspondence by our investigator. Those businesses were acting as UKIs agents. UKI is 
the correct business for my decision to be about. The change of business hasnt made any 
difference to the outcome of my decision.
What happened
Ms D had home emergency cover under her home insurance policy. The insurer was UKI. 
She took out the policy on 10 July 2019. On 15 July 2019 Ms D called UKI about a leak in 
her boiler. An engineer attended on UKIs behalf to look at the problem. 
Ultimately UKI declined the claim. The engineer told it corrosion had caused the leak in the 
boiler and the policy excluded claims caused by wear and tear. Also, the policy excluded 
cover for loss or damage that happened in the first 14 days of cover and the claim fell within 
the first 14 days. UKI accepted its communication with Ms D had been poor and offered £50 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience, which she declined.
In summary, Ms D complains that: there was no corrosion and UKI should have repaired the 
boiler; over three days she had to call UKI numerous times to find out what was happening 
and had poor service; she spoke to UKI when she bought the policy and wasnt told about 
the 14 days exclusion. 
Ms D wants UKI to pay her: the £230 she paid to have her boiler privately repaired; 
compensation for not receiving the benefit of home emergency cover; compensation for her 
and her familys distress. She said UKI told her she could use the £50 it offered to buy the 
boiler part which she found insulting.
Our investigator thought UKI had fairly declined the claim and made a fair offer of 
compensation. He told Ms D she would need to make a separate complaint about whether 
the policy had been mis-sold to her.
Ms D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said UKI had acted 
unprofessionally.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Ms D's comments about what UKI told her when she called it about the policy. Our 
investigator has correctly explained that Ms D will need to make a separate complaint about 
whether there was a mis-sale of the policy. This decision is just about whether UKI fairly declined the claim and whether its 
compensation offer was reasonable. I think UKI did act fairly on those two matters. I dont 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The home insurance policy, which the home emergency cover is part of, is clear theres no 
cover for claims caused by wear and tear. 
The engineer's evidence says there was corrosion on the boiler. UKI could fairly rely on that 
expert evidence to decline the claim on the basis that the leak was caused by wear and 
tear.  
When Ms D disagreed there was corrosion, saying it was just discolouration from the leak, 
UKI offered to send another engineer to give a second opinion as to whether there was 
corrosion. I think that was a reasonable offer from UKI, but Ms D preferred not to take that 
option.
Even if there had been no corrosion, the home emergency section of the policy is clear that 
UKI wont pay for loss or damage that happens in the first 14 days of cover. 
Ms D took out the policy on 10 July and contacted UKI about the leak on 15 July, so within 
the 14 days excluded period. UKI also fairly declined the claim on that basis. Ms D says she 
wasnt told about the 14 days exclusion when she called UKI but, as Ive said, whether there 
was a mis-sale of the policy is a separate complaint.
UKI fairly declined the claim under the terms of the policy so it doesnt need to pay Ms D the 
cost of the private repair to her boiler.
UKIs engineer attended the boiler the day after Ms D called it. UKI accepts there were then 
unacceptable delays in contacting Ms D. It says that was due to a major incident causing its 
systems to be unavailable. Ms Ds details of the poor service she received include someone 
at UKI answering her call by telling her its systems were down and to call back later.  
Ms Ds description of events shows she found the whole experience very frustrating. But I 
think UKIs offer of £50 compensation was fair. I think its more likely than not that an 
incident outside of UKIs control was responsible for most of the delay in it not being able to 
contact Ms D sooner. And when Ms D was able to speak to UKI in detail on the 18 July 
some of her frustration was due to being told her situation wasnt covered by the policy, and I 
dont think it was.
Ms D says she felt insulted by UKIs suggestion that she could put the £50 compensation it 
offered towards the boiler repair. Even if UKI did suggest that, Ms D could have used the 
money as she wished. Theres no basis for me to say UKI should have offered more 
compensation. Overall I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman