DRN-3662858
The complaint
Mrs T complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) and their decision 
to decline the claim she made on her home insurance policy.
Mrs T has been represented by Mr T during her complaint. For ease of reference, Ill refer to 
any comments and actions made by both as Mrs T throughout the decision.
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs T noticed that a section of the membrane underneath her roof had 
been damaged. Mrs T thought this damage was caused due to high winds her area had 
been experiencing around that time. So, she contacted AA to make a claim on her insurance 
policy for the required repairs.
AA instructed a surveyor, who Ill refer to as S, to inspect the damage. S attended Mrs Ts 
property on 3 November and concluded that the damage to the membrane was caused by a 
material defect rather than any storm related damage, noting the fact all the roof tiles 
remained in place and undamaged.
AA considered this report, alongside the reported conditions in the area of Mrs Ts property 
at the time. And having done so, they didnt think there were storm conditions present 
around the time of the damage. So, they declined Mrs Ts claim. Mrs T was unhappy about 
this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs T didnt think AAs decision to decline the claim was fair. She explained there were 
ventilation spaces in her roof which she thought had allowed the wind to penetrate her roof 
without damaging the tiles due to the direction of the wind at the time. So, she didnt think it 
was fair for AA to rely on the speed of the wind to determine the success of the claim, as she 
thought the direction of the wind played a part in the damage that could be caused. Mrs T 
was also unhappy with S and their conclusion that the damage related to previous repairs as 
she didnt think there had been any. So, Mrs T wanted AA to reassess her claim and accept 
it.
AA didnt agree. They explained the wind speeds at the time didnt meet their definition of a 
storm. So, they didnt think Mrs Ts claim was covered under the policy she held. Despite 
this, they thought about what the likely outcome of the claim wouldve been had there been a 
storm. And they didnt think the damage was consistent with damage a storm would typically 
cause, nor did they think it was likely the damage present was caused in the main by a 
storm. So, they thought their decline was fair. Mrs T remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think the wind 
speeds around the time of the claim met the storm criteria. So, they didnt think there was an 
insured event that would be covered under Mrs Ts policy and because of this, she thought 
AA had acted fairly when declining the claim.
Mrs T didnt agree, and she provided comments outlining why. These included further 
submissions about the relevance of the wind speed and her unhappiness with the report of 
S. As Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs T. I appreciate she took 
out the insurance policy with AA to help protect her from the financial impact of unexpected 
damage to her property. And I dont doubt the damage to the membrane of her roof was 
unexpected and inconvenient. So, when AA made Mrs T aware her claim had been declined, 
I can understand the upset and frustration this wouldve caused, alongside the financial 
impact to Mrs T of needing to cover the costs of the required repairs herself.
But for me to say AA should overturn their initial decision and uphold the claim, Id need to 
be satisfied theyve done something wrong when declining the claim initially. So, Id need to 
be satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts insurance policy. Or, 
if I think they have, that they acted unfairly when doing so. And unfortunately, in this situation 
I dont think thats the case. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. Its not my role to re-underwrite Mrs Ts claim. So, 
my decision isnt intended to speculate on what I believe was the cause of the damage to 
Mrs Ts roof. Instead, its my role to consider the claim decision AA have made and decide 
whether I think they acted fairly when reaching this conclusion.
There are three questions our service considers when we look into a storm claim complaint. 
And the first of these is whether we agree that storm conditions were or were not present 
around the date the damage is said to have happened. 
AA doesnt think there was. And for me to say the claim should be upheld, I would need to 
be satisfied there were storm conditions present as, without this, there isnt an insured event 
for Mrs T to claim for, under the terms and conditions of the policy she held. 
Ive seen the weather reports from the period of time around the date Mrs T raised her claim. 
And I can see in the two weeks up to the date of claim, the strongest wind speed in Mrs Ts 
area was 40 miles per hour. But based on the Beaufort Wind Force Scale, the scale used to 
measure and categorise wind speeds by the Royal Meteoritical Society (RMS) and so, the 
insurance industry as a whole, wind speeds of 55 miles per hour and above are needed for 
the conditions to be categorised as a storm. 
Because of the above, I dont think the weather conditions around the time of Mrs Ts claim 
met the criteria of a storm. And so, I think AA have acted in line with the insurance policy Mrs 
T held when declining the claim, as there wasnt an insured event that would be covered.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether I think AA acted fairly when 
operating within the terms of the policy.Mrs T doesnt think they have, and shes provided details submissions regarding the 
ventilation system within her roof and how the direction of the wind is likely to have had an 
impact on the damage thats been caused. I want to reassure Mrs T Ive considered all of the 
comments shes made and I recognise she feels strongly about the situation.
But I dont think I can say AA have acted unfairly on this occasion. Even if I was to say that it 
was unfair to rely on the fact the wind speeds didnt meet the criteria of a storm, I dont think 
AA wouldve changed their claim decision.
I can see AA have explained the damage present isnt typical with the damage expected 
from winds related to a storm, as the external tiles remained in place and undamaged. And 
Ive seen on the RMS website that slight structural damage, such as slates being removed, 
would be expected in wind speeds of between 47  54 miles per hour. So, the banding 
below the storm criteria.
And this is echoed in the report compiled by S, who is an industry expert. So, I dont think Im 
able to say AA acted unfairly, as the actions they have taken fall in line with industry 
guidelines and the recommendations of experts. And because of this, I dont think they need 
to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs T was hoping for. And I appreciate shes unlikely to 
agree with the decision Ive reached. I recognise Mrs T has several reservations about the 
report compiled by S, and the way in which AA have considered the claim before declining it. 
But Im satisfied AA have acted in line with the terms of Mrs Ts policy, and in line with 
standard industry guidelines and approaches. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman