DRN-3070444
The complaint
Mr S, an executor of the estate of Mrs S, complains that M&G Securities Limited (M&G) 
didnt take steps to contact the executors of Mrs S estate when they were made aware of 
her passing. 
What happened
The late Mrs S held an investment with M&G and in 2010 they were notified by her bank that 
shed passed away. At the time they took no action apart from reinvesting any dividends and 
awaited contact from her executors.
Mr S has said that at the time he notified another business (Firm A) - who was a member of 
the same group as M&G - of Mrs S death. However, Firm A didnt notify the executors of the 
existence of the M&G investment. In 2020 M&G performed a mortality check on account 
holders and traced the executors of Mrs S estate and subsequently contacted them and 
made them aware of Mrs S holdings.
Mr S complained to M&G and asked them explain how and why the estate wasnt made 
aware of any holdings in 2010 when they became aware of Mrs S passing. In summary, he 
explained that the executors would now have to spend a considerable amount of time 
repeating activities theyd previously completed such as reassessing the tax position of the 
estate and corresponding with the beneficiaries.
M&G didnt uphold his complaint. They said, in summary, that even though they may have 
had the same parent company as Firm A in 2010, within the group there were still separate 
operating and legal entities. They didnt share the same systems and would only pass on 
correspondence if an account number or reference number for another Company in the 
Group was quoted. 
Mr S didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator initially thought that the complaint 
should be upheld but subsequently changed her opinion. She said, in summary:
The tracing of executors was not M&Gs normal business practice. 
When a person dies, it was the duty of the executors to collate details of all their 
assets and liabilities and notify relevant parties of their appointment. However, it 
wasnt unusual for some assets to be overlooked. But the duty didnt lie with an 
organisation to trace executors where money hadnt been claimed.
She was satisfied that if M&G had sight of the Grant of Probate in 2010, there would 
have been no need to carry out a tracing exercise.
In 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had fined a Bank for not having 
effective processes in place for accounts and linked investments held by deceased 
customers. M&G decided to take the opportunity to review its own processes for 
deceased customers. Following this they scoped out a tracing exercise to locate 
executors, where a Grant of Probate had not been received. But there was no 
requirement for M&G to conduct a tracing exercise and this was completed as a one-
off.
She appreciated Mr S frustration, but she was unable to say that M&G should have 
traced the executors of Mrs S estate earlier than they did.
Mr S didnt accept her findings and said, in summary:
The investigator didnt acknowledge the fact that M&G did not need to trace the 
executors at all. M&G knew the identity of the executors in 2010 as theyd been 
informed of Mrs S death and released one of her investments to the executors in 
2010. This proved that they had sight of the Grant of Probate and knew the identity of 
the executors in 2010. 
The central point of the complaint had always been that M&G failed to release both of 
his mothers investments to the executors at that time. 
It was accepted that the executors did not know of the existence of the additional 
investment that has now come to light as it had been omitted from a list theyd 
received from Mrs S accountant.
It appeared that the investigator had based her view on M&Gs explanations 
concerning their systems and procedures in operation at the time. But the 
explanations theyd provided were not good enough. 
In the submissions hed provided, hed explained how that 10 years before Mrs S 
died, the FCA had expressed concerns about how firms treated their clients. In 2007, 
the FCA informed regulated firms (including Prudential Group of which M&G was a 
subsidiary) that they needed to have appropriate management information systems 
in place and be able to demonstrate compliance by December 2008. 
The investigator had implied that M&G recognized weaknesses in its systems and so 
reviewed its processes for deceased customers. They should have had effective 
processes in place from 2008 for accounts and linked investments held by deceased 
customers, but clearly, they did not.
The fact that M&G claimed to have identified the executors 10 years after they knew 
their identity and released an investment to them was sufficient evidence of their 
failure to have effective processes in place. This may or may not have been a 
regulatory failure, but it was certainly a gross failure of customer service.
M&Gs failures were not without cost in time and money and he thought M&G should 
apologise and agree to meet the very modest costs hed submitted.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think its helpful to explain the role of this service. We provide an independent, 
informal, dispute resolution service. We have no regulatory powers which means we are unable to tell a business how to operate, instead that is the role of the regulator the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). We assess each complaint that is brought to us on its own merits 
and consider things on a fair and reasonable basis. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and I 
dont think the complaint should be upheld. I appreciate Mr S feels strongly about the 
complaint and I will therefore explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive firstly considered if M&G should have done more in 2010 when they were made aware 
by Mrs S bank that shed unfortunately passed away. They action they took at the time was 
to apply their usual process - stop sending mail, reinvest any dividends and await contact 
from her executors. Mr S contends that they should have taken steps to contact the bank 
and find out who the executors of the estate were and inform them of her holdings. 
I take the point Mr S has made, and I appreciate that this would have been helpful and 
prevented the extra work that hes had to now undertake, but I dont think the actions M&G 
took at the time was unreasonable. There was no requirement for M&G to trace executors of 
accounts where they were aware the consumer was deceased, and because of this I cant 
fairly say that theyve done anything wrong. All businesses will have processes in place and 
we wouldnt generally interfere with their processes unless a clear error has been made. And 
having considered the actions M&G took, I dont think an error was made. 
M&G took steps to proactively identify and engage with executors following a fine the FCA 
issued to another business in 2018 concerning failings in processing the accounts and 
investments of deceased customers and this has resulted in Mrs S executors being traced. I 
appreciate this could have potentially been done earlier but it still would have had the end 
result of creating extra work for the executors. 
Ive then considered if M&G have been aware of the executors following the letter the 
executors sent to Firm A in 2010. The executors of Mrs S estate wrote to Firm A in 2010 
and asked them to surrender her holdings. They quoted the reference number of five 
holdings - a PruBond and four M&G Flexible Investment Bonds (FIBs). 
Firm A have said that information about the M&G FIBs had been historically integrated within 
their systems, but the M&G ISA business was conducted by a separate company within the 
group and therefore wasnt similarly linked. If theyd had reason to believe that another 
company in their group had a holding - such as an account number or reference being 
quoted - then they would have been passed any correspondence on to the other company. 
But because there was no mention of the M&G ISA, they didnt take any further action. 
I appreciate Mr S frustration with the fact that the M&G FIBs were surrendered but the ISA 
wasnt. Ive noted the points hes made and considered if M&G have acted unfairly. 
However, I think its important to note that there was no reference number provided for the 
M&G ISA in the letter that was sent to Firm A or instruction for them to search the group 
records for other holdings. 
From what Ive seen it was Firm A who were responsible for surrendering the FIBs and 
corresponding with the executors of Mrs S estate. Firm A and M&G are separate legal 
entities and operate independently of each other. As it was Firm A who appear to have 
carried out the administration of the FIBs and processed the correspondence sent by the 
executors in 2010, I dont think I can fairly say that M&G should have been aware of who 
Mrs S executors were in 2010. Because of this, and because I dont think M&G needed to 
take any further action than they did in 2010, I dont think they should pay the estate of Mrs 
S the compensation for inconvenience Mr S has suggested.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman