DRN-2200840
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under his 
motor insurance policy, after another driver said he caused a car accident.
References to UKI include its agents.
What happened
In early 2020, Mr M was involved in an accident involving another vehicle. Mr M was moving 
from the right hand lane to the middle lane, when his car made contact with the other 
vehicle. He let UKI know about the incident, but he didnt make a claim for his car because 
there was no damage to it.
Mr M wasnt able to take photographs at the scene as he didnt have his phone with him. He 
took photos of his car shortly after the accident and sent these to UKI, along with pictures of 
the road where the incident occurred. He also completed an accident report form. 
After receiving further information about damage to the other drivers car and her account of 
what had happened, UKI told Mr M it would accept liability for the incident. Mr M disputed 
that he was at fault. He didnt believe he could have caused the damage to the other drivers 
car. He asked UKI to send an assessor around to view his car. But UKI didnt respond to his 
email. 
Mr M made a complaint to UKI. He didnt believe he was responsible for the accident and 
thought UKI should defend the claim. He was also unhappy about a lack of communication 
from UKI, whod failed to respond to several emails.
UKI said the claims file was still open because it was waiting for further information from the 
other drivers insurer. It had attempted to chase for this. It apologised for not responding to 
Mr Ms emails and sent him £75 to compensate him for the poor service hed received. 
Following this, UKI received further information from the other drivers insurer and decided to 
accept liability for the claim.
Mr M was unhappy that UKI had agreed to pay the other drivers costs. He didnt believe he 
could have caused that much damage. He also felt UKI had lied to him because it said it had 
tried to call him, but he didnt believe it had. So, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He thought UKI had acted reasonably in deciding to accept liability for the accident and 
agreeing to pay the other drivers claim. He thought the £75 UKI had offered was fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. So, his complaint had been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive considered all of his points, even if I havent responded to 
each of them individually. Ive concentrated on what I feel is most relevant to the outcome of 
his complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require UKI to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its customers.
Mr M doesnt think UKI has treated him fairly. He doesnt think hes responsible for the 
damage to the other drivers car. And he feels UKI should have done more to investigate this 
before accepting liability for it. 
Its not my role, or the role of this service, to establish which party is responsible for an 
incident. What Ive needed to decide is whether or not UKI has acted fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The policys terms and conditions state that UKI is entitled to take over and carry out the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in (his) name, or in the name of any other 
person covered by this policy. Similar provisions are found in most motor insurance policies, 
so I dont find this unusual. It means UKI is entitled to decide whether to defend a claim or 
settle it.
From what Ive been told, there were no independent witnesses to the accident. Mr M says 
he was moving over from the right hand lane to the middle lane while exiting a roundabout. 
The other driver said she was already in the middle lane when Mr M moved over from the 
right and collided with her vehicle. But Mr M thinks she was far behind him and might have 
been trying to undertake him or have swerved to get out of the near side lane. 
Mr M doesnt dispute there was contact between the two vehicles or that he was changing 
lanes when the accident occurred. When changing lane, it would be Mr Ms responsibility to 
make sure the lane he was attempting to enter was clear. And Ive seen an engineers report 
for the other drivers vehicle, showing damage to the right hand side of her car. This appears 
consistent with where Mr Ms car would have hit it, had he been changing lanes and collided 
with a car already in that lane.
Unfortunately, Mr M didnt have his phone with him at the time, so he wasnt able to take 
photographs of the other car. And I appreciate Mr M feels that the above sequence of events 
isnt what happened. But as an insurer, UKI is likely to have experience of how a court would 
view the evidence that was available. And it decided that the above evidence was sufficient 
for it to need to admit liability in the circumstances. With this in mind, I dont think UKIs 
decision to accept liability for the incident was unreasonable. 
Mr M feels strongly that he couldnt have caused the extent of damage the other driver has 
claimed for. He feels that an inspection of his car would have shown this. But UKI had 
received the photographs Mr M had sent of his own car and his testimony that there was no 
damage to it. So, Im not persuaded that an inspection of Mr Ms vehicle would have added 
any further information, in respect of liability, that UKI didnt already have from the 
photographs.The terms of the policy allow UKI to make the decision about whether to settle the full costs 
claimed by the other driver or to dispute these. UKI says a report provided by third party 
engineers would be reviewed by its own engineers, who would challenge it if they thought it 
was unrealistic or inflated. 
On balance, I think an inspection of Mr Ms vehicle is unlikely to have made a difference to 
UKIs decision about settling the claim. 
UKI has acknowledged its communication with Mr M was poor. It was no doubt frustrating for 
him when UKI didnt respond to his emails. But I think the £75 UKI has paid him for this is 
reasonable to recognise the upset and inconvenience caused. So, I wont ask it to do 
anything further.
Ive considered all of Mr Ms points including what hes said about UKI telling him it had tried 
to call him on 12 June. Mr M is certain it didnt, because he and his wife were both self-
isolating at the time and would have been available to hear the phone ringing. Hed asked 
UKI to provide proof of the call, but it hadnt done so, telling him it didnt have a recording of 
the attempted call.
UKI has noted it attempted to call Mr M on 12 June 2020 and sent a letter advising it would 
be logged as a fault claim. I appreciate Mr M would like stronger evidence that it did call him. 
But UKI has explained why it cant provide him with this. It said it doesnt have a recording of 
the call because it doesnt record calls of this short a duration. 
I understand the lack of a call recording is frustrating for Mr M. But the fact UKI has said it 
doesnt have a call recording means Im not able to ask it to send evidence of the call. And in 
any event, regardless of what happened with this call, Im satisfied it doesnt change the 
outcome of this complaint. UKI let Mr M know the outcome of the claim by letter. So, Mr M 
was made aware the claim was recorded as a fault claim, and he was able to discuss this 
with a UKI representative over the phone once hed received the letter. So, there hasnt been 
any detriment caused to Mr M as a result of the phone call of 12 June 2020 either not being 
connected or received.
Mr M has also commented about a UKI agent telling him they must have mis-read the file, 
after saying something incorrect over the phone. This didnt fill him with confidence that the 
agent was looking at the right case. While I can understand Mr Ms concerns, it doesnt 
appear to have had an impact on how the claim was handled or resulted in any 
inconvenience to Mr M. And I havent seen any evidence that the agent was looking at the 
wrong case.
So, these additional points havent made a difference to the outcome Ive reached.
I appreciate this has been a frustrating experience for Mr M. But I think UKIs decision to 
accept liability for the accident was reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. The customer service UKI provided could have been better but I think the £75 it 
has already paid Mr M is enough to recognise this. So, I wont ask UKI to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman