DRN-2683450
The complaint
Mr R complains that a used car he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because the car 
was bought with finance provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, he says that Hitachi Capital is 
equally liable with the supplier of the car. He wants to reject it.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr R bought a car for £8,950, in part using finance arranged by the dealership
and provided by Hitachi Capital. The sales documentation records that the car had an
odometer reading of around 80,000 miles and had been first registered in March 2012.
Within a few weeks Mr R reported that an oil warning light was showing. The dealership
arranged for the oil sensor to be replaced.
In June 2019 Mr R noted a further oil pressure warning. This time, the fuel injectors, spark
plugs and coil pack were replaced. This did not however resolve the issue and Mr R
contacted Hitachi Capital. It said that it was for Mr R to demonstrate that there had been a
fault with the car at the point of sale. Mr R referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened but didnt initially believe there was
enough evidence to show that the car had been of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Mr R arranged for a report to be prepared by a specialist engineer. That report was dated 20
February 2020. The engineer concluded that it was likely the timing chain guides were
damaged and that small plastic fragments had fallen into the oil sump, blocking the strainer
and leading to low oil pressure. This was, he said, a known issue with this make of car. He
suggested that, had he seen the car in July 2018, he would have diagnosed the problem and
the further issues Mr R had reported would have been avoided.
Our investigator reviewed the case in the light of the engineers report. He indicated that he
had changed his mind and now believed that the combination of existing issues and a failure
to diagnose them had caused the (more serious) failures that Mr R had reported. He
recommended that Hitachi Capital allow Mr R to return the car.
Hitachi Capital didnt accept the investigators revised findings. It doubted whether the
engineer had inspected the car and arranged for further inspections, this time by DEKRA.
Those inspections took place on 10 September and 27 October 2020.
The first DEKRA report said that the camshaft and timing chain appeared complete. The
second  carried out after the engine had been further dismantled  noted some wear to the
timing chain and noted that the second and third big ends had seized; this was the result of
high temperatures caused by oil starvation. The inspecting engineer did not think this was
the result of any problem existing at the time of sale; neither was it the result of wear in the
timing chain as the first inspection had suggested.
The investigator was not however persuaded to change his view, and Hitachi Capital asked
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different view from that of the investigator, I 
issued a provisional decision. I did not believe the evidence showed that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. The engine failure was caused by a lack of oil, but the 
engineers who had inspected the car had not identified a fault which had led to that. I set out 
below the reasoning which led me to that (provisional) conclusion. 
The sale agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory
quality. Further, because the car was financed under arrangements made between the
dealership and Hitachi Capital, if Mr R had claim for breach of contract against the
dealership, he had a like claim against Hitachi Capital.
Goods are of satisfactory quality if they are of the quality a reasonable person would expect
in the circumstances. In this case, I think those circumstances must include the cars age,
mileage and price. It was a relatively high mileage vehicle, was more than six years old at
delivery and relatively low-priced. It was to be expected that it might require maintenance
and that some parts might be suffering from wear and tear.
Mr R says that problems were apparent almost immediately. I note however that the work
carried out (at the dealerships expense) in July 2018 appears to have resolved the
immediate issues. Mr R didnt report any further problems until nearly a year later; in that
time, around 7,000 miles had been added to the cars mileage.
The first engineers report suggested that the ultimate cause of the oil pressure problems
was wear to the timing belt. Arguably, that could be a matter of wear and tear in a car that
had travelled 80,000 miles. Importantly, however, that report went on to say that, had that
problem been diagnosed sooner (as the engineer says it should have been), the later, more
serious, problems could have been avoided.
I have no doubt that first engineer gave his opinion honestly and in good faith. However, he
did not have the opportunity of inspecting the car or of removing and dismantling the engine.
The subsequent reports were prepared after the engine the engine had been dismantled 
more comprehensively on the second occasion. The conclusions did not support the first
engineers conclusions about the condition of the timing belt or what he thought about the
diagnosis in July 2018.
The second engineer concluded that the damage to the engine had not been present at the
time the car was delivered to Mr R. He indicated however that he thought there had been a
misdiagnosis.
The car was not of satisfactory quality at delivery. That is why the dealership arranged
repairs in July 2018. Those repairs, however, appear to have resolved the issue for a further
7,000 miles and nearly a year. In the circumstances, I do not believe that I can fairly
conclude that the seizure of the big ends  discussed in the second DEKRA report  was
caused by faulty or inadequate repairs carried out nearly a year earlier.
The evidence that the engine damage was caused by a worn timing chain or a failure to
diagnose it is limited to the first engineers report. That report appears to have been based
on a description of the problem and the engineers knowledge of the model, not on a full
inspection, so was limited in what it could address. The third report has however shown the
first engineers diagnosis to be incorrect, because the timing chain was not worn in the
manner suggested and had not led to the oil strainer being blocked.
I should note that the DEKRA engineer appears to have been asked some questions which
might be seen to compromise his independence. For example, he was asked if he thought
the first engineer had seen the vehicle  presumably to see if his report could be discredited.
I have however focused on what the DEKRA engineer observed and reported as a result ofhis own inspection, not on what he thought someone else was or was not able to report on.
Mr R did not accept my provisional findings. He acknowledged that he had no further 
evidence to provide but commented that he had pointed out on several occasions that there 
was an oil warning light and that he had tried to get the problems fixed. The issue had not 
been properly diagnosed or repaired. 
More recently, he said that the car had been returned following the inspection, but that it had 
not been returned to its original condition. The engine remained stripped.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs sale contract with the dealership was to be read as including a term that the car 
would be of satisfactory quality. Because that contract was financed under pre-existing 
arrangements between the dealership and Hitachi Capital, if Mr R has a claim for breach of 
contract against the dealership, he has a like claim against Hitachi Capital. That is the effect 
in this case of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, for the reasons I have 
explained, I am not persuaded that Mr R does have a claim against the dealership for breach 
of the contract for the sale and purchase of the car.
Mr R has said that he feels that there was a failure properly to diagnose the faults with the 
car and  as a consequence  to remedy them. He has also complained about the condition 
of the car after it was inspected. However, Hitachi Capitals responsibility for the cars 
condition only arises under section 75 because it financed the sale contract by providing 
credit to Mr R under arrangements it had with the dealership. Hitachi Capital is not 
responsible for any subsequent misdiagnosis, repairs or for what happened after the 
inspection. It did not provide credit to Mr R for those matters. It may be that Mr R can pursue 
other parties in respect of them, but it would not be appropriate for me to comment any 
further on that.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman