DRN-1611685
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK plc has unfairly declined her claim for stolen 
jewellery under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B took out a policy with AXA in March 2018. Mrs B notified the loss of items of jewellery 
to AXA in October 2018. She said her losses included two rings which were bought for her in 
May 2018 and have been dealt with under a separate policy. She claimed to AXA for the 
remaining items, which were valued at over £16,000. She said the loss happened whilst she 
was attending to her daughter and she reported the loss to the police. 
AXA appointed loss adjusters and an investigator to deal with the claim. AXAs investigator 
spoke to Mrs B and was told she had put her jewellery in her handbag on the day it was lost 
as she had intended to have it cleaned later that day. But she hadnt made an appointment 
and she couldnt say which jewellers. She said she wanted to clean her jewellery ahead of 
her wedding, though this had yet to be arranged. She went to her daughters school as there 
was an accident and in dealing with this she lost her jewellery, but she didnt know how.
Mrs B subsequently provided a photo of part of her jewellery at AXAs request. The 
investigator assessed the photo and reported that the metadata which records when a photo 
is taken, showed it to have been taken after the loss of the jewellery. 
AXA decided to decline Mrs Bs claim on the basis of fraud as it said the evidence of loss 
wasnt available and Mrs B had provided false information in support of her claim. AXA also 
said Mrs B had failed to disclose two previous claims when applying for her policy.
Mrs B said this was unfair and the original photos were taken before the loss and are held by 
her sister, but they arent on speaking terms. AXA decided to cancel Mrs Bs insurance 
policy in November 2019. Mrs B said she didnt receive AXAs letter until the following 
month. She complained that her claim had been declined despite her reporting it to the 
police, because AXA was saying it was dishonest. She also complained about the delayed 
notification of the cancellation of her policy. Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the photos of Mrs Bs 
jewellery that she had provided were shown to have been taken after the loss. She said it 
was fair for AXA to decline her claim under the fraud term in the policy. She said it was 
unfortunate the policy cancellation was received late by Mrs B but there was no detriment. 
Mrs B said she didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review 
her complaint. Mrs B wanted to know why cancellation was so long after her claim and after 
the policy renewed and our involvement in her complaint.
The complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. I asked Mrs B for some more 
information. In response she told me that her claim for the lost rings had since been paid by 
her other insurer. She said AXA had made it impossible for her to obtain home insurance by 
putting a fraud marker against her. AXA confirmed that it had placed a fraud marker against 
Mrs B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a policyholders responsibility to demonstrate they have a valid claim and it is common 
practice for insurers to verify a claim before paying out. Mrs Bs policy states that she may 
be required to provide evidence to prove her claim. I dont think AXAs investigation of the 
claim and requirements for information were exceptional or unreasonable.
Mrs B was unable to identify the moment she lost her jewellery or the means by which it was 
lost. She said the jewellery went missing at some point while she was attending her daughter 
after an accident. Ive looked at the investigation that AXA had carried out and can see that it 
came across a number of other uncertainties and inconsistencies with Mrs Bs version of the 
events. 
Mrs B said she would normally wear her jewellery, but took it off the day it was lost so as to 
get it cleaned at a jewellers. It wasnt clear to AXA why jewellery, some of which was less 
than six months old, would need cleaning, why she would have to take the jewellery off in 
the morning for this purpose, and why she hadnt made an appointment or identified the 
jeweller she would take it to that day. Mrs B said she put the jewellery into her handbag, but 
it appears to have been the only items that were lost as she retained her bank card and 
other items from her handbag. 
I havent seen a reasonable explanation from Mrs B about these issues or why the photo she 
provided of part of the jewellery was taken after the date of its loss. And its not clear to me 
why Mrs B didnt declare two previous claims paid by another insurer within the previous 
three years, which I understand were for the accidental loss of the same watch, when she 
took out the policy with AXA.
All in all, I think AXA gathered and considered the evidence surrounding Mrs Bs claim 
thoroughly and fairly and I think its decision to decline her claim and cancel her policy were 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And I think that AXA has acted in accordance with 
the terms of the policy. 
I have looked at AXAs placing of a fraud marker against Mrs B. Mrs Bs policy states that if 
she makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim or knowingly submits a false or forged 
document in support of a claim then AXA doesnt have to pay the claim and can cancel the 
policy. Insurers are required to report accurate information to fraud agencies and databases, 
and I havent seen anything to suggest that AXA has acted unfairly or made an error about 
the information it has recorded about Mrs B.
 
Mrs B complained that AXA cancelled her policy a year after her claim. AXA said this was 
because it wanted to complete its investigation of the claim before taking cancellation action. 
I think it was right of AXA to consider this serious step carefully before acting and the one-
month delay in receipt of its letter by Mrs B was unfortunate but does not appear to have 
caused her any detriment. Mrs B was on cover during this period and would have had the 
benefit of a claim had she needed to make one. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman