DRN-3672935
The complaint
Mr L complains Currencies Direct Ltd (CD) failed to carry out a pre-agreed currency 
exchange contract. 
What happened
Mr L says while working in Saudi Arabia his Australian dollar (AUS) salary needed to be paid 
in the local currency. Mr Ls employers, to protect any currency exchange loss, set up a 
wages protection scheme with CD, so that during a limited window a guaranteed 
conversion rate was in place, to protect his salary in AUS. Mr L says when he attempted to 
send a payment from his Saudi bank account in the local currency to CD, his Saudi banks 
online system wouldnt allow that, and his only option was to send the payment in pounds 
sterling (GBP). 
Mr L says he was then contacted by an employee of CD, who suggested to him the best 
option was to convert the GBP to AUS but by doing so, he lost around AUS 550. Mr L says 
there was no error on his part as he simply carried out the instructions he was given by his 
employer and was advised by CD to convert the GBP payment into AUS, rather than reject 
the payment, which he originally intended to do. 
Mr L wants CD to apologise and refund him the loss he incurred. 
CD says the matter was outside its control as the payment it had received was in GBP rather 
than the local Saudi currency, which it needed to be, to meet the terms of the wages 
protection scheme. CD says it couldnt be held responsible as to why the payment was sent 
in GBP and that was out of its control and the error may have been with the sending bank.  
CD says its staff were simply attempting to mitigate the losses Mr L incurred when it 
suggested the conversion of GBPs to AUSs and it wasnt able to return the payment until 
after it was received and cleared, by which time the wages protection window would have 
closed, if Mr L had wanted to have then resent the payment in the local Saudi currency.
Mr L wasnt happy with CDs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that CD couldnt be held responsible for the fact the payment it received was 
sent in GBP rather than Saudi riyals (SAR), which is where the problem started. The 
investigator felt it was reasonable to expect Mr L to have contacted his Saudi bank if he 
couldnt send the payment in SARs as required under the wages protection scheme. The 
investigator felt it was Mr Ls decision to convert the GBPs to AUSs and there was no 
evidence CD had agreed to mitigate any losses as a result. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand that it would have been upsetting for Mr L having carried out what he 
believed was the only payment option available to him, to then be told by CD that transaction 
had resulted in him incurring an exchange rate loss  - meaning in effect he hadnt received 
the amount of salary he was expecting.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if CD were at fault for the exchange loss Mr L 
suffered here. 
Mr Ls complaint centres around the fact, through no fault of his own, having carried out the 
only payment method available to him in GBPs from his Saudi bank to CD, it resulted in him 
suffering an exchange loss of over AUS 550 and he wasnt protected by the wages 
protection scheme that was in place. 
I understand the points Mr L has made and I have listened to the phone calls made between 
him and CD and had sight of copies of correspondence between both parties, but Im not 
fully persuaded by his argument. I say this and while Mr L may not agree, its fair to say the 
problem here began when the payment was sent from his Saudi Bank in GBPs to CD and 
not in SARs as it was expecting and needed, to meet the terms and conditions of the wages 
protection schemes four day transfer window.  
What happened here as explained by Mr L, was when he attempted to make an online 
payment for the first time from his Saudi bank account to CD, its online system didnt allow 
the payment to be sent in SARs and he was only left with the option of sending it in GBPs. 
While I can understand the point Mr L makes here, its reasonable to say, knowing the terms 
and conditions of the wages protection scheme was for those monies to be only sent in 
SARs, he did have the opportunity, even  if that may have been challenging, to discuss this 
with his Saudi bank or employer before sending it in another currency, but Mr L took the 
decision here not to do that. 
I cant say that CD can be held responsible for that decision by Mr L, and further more once 
the payment had been sent this way, it wouldnt have been in its control to stop the payment, 
that was for the sending bank, and CD could only return the payment with Mr Ls 
instructions, after it had been received as cleared funds. 
Having listened to the phone calls, this matter was discussed with Mr L and the agent for CD 
then offers the option to convert the GBPs directly to AUSs in an attempt to mitigate any 
exchange losses, and tells Mr L one of the dealers would try and get the best rate it could for 
him. This option was agreed by Mr L given the alternative was to have sent the payment 
back to his Saudi Bank and reconvert to SARs, by which time he would have been outside 
of the four day transfer window, to benefit from the wages protection scheme. From that 
telephone call I cant say Mr L was persuaded to take that course of action, it was agreed by 
him to convert the GBPs into AUSs. 
Its worth noting in all likelihood, if Mr L had returned the monies back from GBPs to SARs, 
this may have also left him open to an exchange rate movement. 
In a separate call CDs dealer explains that the window had passed but she would try and give him a better rate, but it wouldnt match the amount of AUSs Mr L was expecting. I 
understand that Mr L feels  the rate he was finally given wasnt particularly preferential, 
however, its not possible for me to be certain of that, as all CD offered was to provide him a 
better exchange rate, not to meet any losses he had incurred.  
As I mentioned earlier I am satisfied the issue here stems from the initial payment being sent 
in the wrong currency  GBPs and not SARs in line with the wages protection scheme. 
While Mr L feels strongly that he wasnt at fault, hes since mentioned the problems at the 
Saudi Bank have been corrected, which seem to suggest there was an issue there, or it was 
incorrectly input by him at the time. What is clear, is CD werent involved in that part of the 
transaction, so I cant say it was to blame for the exchange losses that followed as a direct 
result of this. 
While Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of CD here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman