DRN-2026990
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased 
the credit limit on her credit card.
What happened
Ms G had a Barclaycard credit card. In 2015 and 2016, the credit limit was increased four 
times, from £1,200 to £6,900. She says this was irresponsible of Barclaycard, because she 
had told it she was in financial difficulties and that she had lost her job. This is in dispute, 
and Barclaycard says she didnt tell them about this until 2017.
In 2019 Ms G complained about the increases. She insisted that she had told Barclaycard 
and Barclays about her situation, and accused the banks of lying. (She also complained 
about Barclays mis-selling her a personal loan in 2015. That matter is now being treated as 
a separate complaint, but I have still taken into account what the parties have said about it.)
Barclaycard said that as far as it had known at the time, Ms G had still been in full time 
employment, and that if she had told it otherwise, this would have been recorded on its 
systems. It said Ms G had asked for each of the limit increases herself  they hadnt been 
offered to her. It said she had been making more than the minimum payments, had kept her 
payments up to date (except for one late payment in 2019), and had kept within her credit 
limit. She had mainly used the account to make non-essential purchases. It said that on the 
information it had about her, the increases had appeared to be affordable, and there had 
been no indication of financial difficulty.
Ms G argued that Barclaycard must have known that shed lost her job (whether shed told it 
or not, although she insisted that she had), since she had used her Barclays current account 
to pay her lawyers, and her credit card to pay her employment tribunal fees, so the banks 
must have known about her tribunal case all along. When Barclaycard did not uphold her 
complaint, she brought this complaint to our Service. (Initially this complaint and her 
complaint about Barclays were dealt with together, with Barclays representing Barclaycard.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He didnt think that Barclaycard had known or 
should have known that she had lost her job. After reviewing her finances, he thought there 
was no reason for Barclaycard to think that Ms G could not afford the limit increases. 
Nothing about her spending habits had suggested that she was in financial difficulty, and she 
did not appear to have told Barclaycard about her situation until September 2017. (He didnt 
uphold the Barclays complaint either.) Ms G asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have dealt with both complaints at the same time, and although I have issued separate 
decisions for each of them, I have taken into account everything the parties have told me 
about the loan and the credit card.
On the balance of probabilities, I am not persuaded that Ms G told Barclaycard that she was 
in financial difficulties and that Barclaycard ignored this and failed to record what she had 
told it until September 2017 (which is the earliest mention of financial difficulties in the banks 
contact notes and collections notes). I am reinforced in that conclusion by the fact that Ms G 
requested each of the four credit limit increases on her Barclaycard herself  they werent 
automatically offered to her in a promotion.
When a banks customer is in financial difficulties, the onus is on them to tell their bank, not 
to wait for the bank to realise. So unless and until Ms G told Barclaycard that she had lost or 
was about to lose her job, I wouldnt expect the bank to figure that out anyway. There was 
nothing to indicate that the fees she paid to her lawyers and to HM Courts and Tribunals 
Service had anything to do with proceedings before an employment tribunal. They might 
have related to anything. These transactions dont suggest a change in circumstances such 
as loss of employment.
Its true that Ms Gs salary stopped being paid to her Barclays current account in late 2015 
(after the loan). But I wouldnt expect Barclaycard to monitor her Barclays account, as they 
are different banks. I also wouldnt expect Barclays to notice that and then to infer that she 
must have lost her job, and then tell Barclaycard. Its clear from her account statements that 
she had another current account with another bank, so for all Barclays knew she may have 
just asked her employer to pay her salary to her other bank account.
Looking at how Ms G managed her account, I think she generally managed it well and did 
not give Barclaycard cause for concern. I agree that there were some non-essential 
purchases, and that she kept within the credit limit, and made her payments on time. I have 
reminded myself of the UK Cards Associations guidelines on Credit Card Limit Increases, 
issued in 2011, but I dont think Barclaycard contravened them.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman