DRN-2723867
The complaint
Miss Ps complaint is about HDI Global Speciality SEs decision to decline a claim for 
subsidence under her home insurance policy.
All references to HDI include its appointed agents.
What happened
In March 2020, Miss P raised a claim to HDI for subsidence damage at her property. HDI 
arranged for a loss adjuster to visit and assess the damage.
The loss adjuster concluded that an area of distortion around the rear wall of the property 
wasnt linked to subsidence-related ground movement. And they said that a pre-purchase 
survey highlighted that the damage to the internal walls of the property had been ongoing 
prior to the start of Miss Ps policy. The loss adjuster said this was linked to the fact the 
internal walls were built off floor joists which rested on short sleeper walls and not the 
foundations, so it was also excluded from her cover. 
Miss P was unhappy with HDIs decision and complained. She said the loss adjuster hadnt 
carried out adequate investigations to determine the cause of the damage and raised 
concerns about their conduct. Miss P asked HDI for a second opinion on the matter and 
provided HDI with the results of a drains survey she had arranged.
HDI responded to Miss P and offered to monitor the porch and conservatory area to see if 
there was evidence of ongoing movement it could consider covering. But it said it was 
satisfied with the investigations carried out by the loss adjuster and with their conduct, so it 
didnt think a further opinion was necessary.
HDI maintained its position to decline Miss Ps claim and referred to two exclusions in the 
policy terms; one for any damage prior to the policy inception; and one for movement in the 
floor slabs unless the foundations were damaged at the same time and by the same cause.
HDI noted the findings of the drains survey but said the problems identified werent covered 
under Miss Ps policy either. HDI explained the policy provided cover for accidental damage 
to drains and the issues highlighted werent as a result of accidental damage or linked to the 
movement of the internal walls. So it didnt reimburse Miss P for the cost of the drains 
survey.
Miss P didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. She said that HDI had placed too much 
weight on the pre-purchase survey from nine years ago in deciding to decline the claim. And 
she said that properties nearby had suffered from subsidence and required underpinning.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
found HDI had assessed Miss Ps claim fairly against the evidence provided and in line with 
the terms of her policy. So they didnt recommend it needed to do anything further.
Miss P disagreed. She says she previously addressed the issues highlighted in the pre-
purchase report and that work had been carried out. She said the joists were sitting on the 
concrete so it followed that if the concrete was moving the joists would move with the 
concrete. She added that the cracks had only appeared recently and there were no signs of 
any issues in the previous years.
Miss P asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Miss P is now arranging for an independent surveyor to assess the damage. 
The results of this survey will need to be presented to HDI in the first instance in order for it 
review its position. Any issues arising from this would then need to be dealt with as a 
separate matter to this complaint.
My decision is therefore based on the evidence that HDI has relied on to decline Miss Ps 
claim. And as it has relied on exclusions in Miss Ps policy, it is for HDI to show that these 
exclusions fairly apply. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Subsidence
Ive checked the exclusions HDI has relied on to decline this claim. The terms state:
What we dont cover you for:
Damage caused by or resulting from:
the movement of solid floor slabs unless the foundations beneath the external walls 
of the home are damaged at the same time and by the same cause;
And under the General Exclusions applicable to this event it states:
Any loss, damage, bodily injury or liability arising out of any accident or incident that 
happened before your policy started.
I dont consider these terms unusual for policies of this type. As such, it is for HDI to show 
that the movement of the internal walls is independent of the property foundations, and also 
to show that the incident which led to the damage occurred before the policy started.
Ive considered the three reports provided by HDIs loss adjuster which include their 
preliminary findings, an interim report following receipt of the pre-purchase survey, and a 
second report following a return visit to inspect the void under the floorboards. Included in 
the reports are photographs of the damage being claimed for.Miss P says the loss adjuster didnt undertake an adequate investigation, but I dont agree. 
The reports provided are detailed and I can see that the loss adjuster has considered the 
investigations required to determine the cause of the damage in their preliminary report:
The fundamental problem here however is the movement of the internal walls which have 
clearly dropped. Unfortunately we do not know the form of construction or whether any or all 
of the internal walls are independently founded or supported of joists or the sub floor void 
over site slabIn order to verify the precise form of construction, access will be needed into 
the sub floor voidsIf this proves that the internal walls are only supported off the floor 
joiststhis will not be a subsidence problem.
The report concludes, At this stage, there is no evidence that there is actually a subsidence 
problem, but we cannot entirely rule it out. The most likely scenarios are that the internal 
floors are built off joists or off an over site concrete rather than them being independently 
founded
The loss adjuster also attributed the remaining movement to an absence of a lintel over 
external wall openings and noted the overlapping brickwork to the rear of the property. And 
they also ruled out any intervening causes of damage such as the soil composition, 
vegetation, or nearby watercourses. So overall I am satisfied they inspected all the areas of 
damage in Miss Ps property and I havent seen anything to refute the conclusions drawn 
here.
At this stage I think this report shows the loss adjuster had an idea of what might be causing 
the internal walls to drop but required further investigations and evidence to confirm this. So 
overall I am persuaded the loss adjusters assessment of the damage was sufficient and 
detailed enough to inform HDI of the likely next steps and investigations required in this 
claim.
Ive next considered the loss adjusters interim report, in which they comment on the pre-
purchase report which states Possibly the most significant defect, however, is the 
springiness of the floor timbers. This is a problem that has affected several other properties 
in this vicinity and investigations at other properties have revealed that the sleeper walls 
supporting the floor joists have settled together with the oversight concrete
The loss adjuster states that this confirms their earlier thoughts about the cause of damage, 
and also that the cause of the damage would have been longstanding before the policy 
started. This is further supported by the second report following an investigation of the sub-
floor void:
a shallow sub-floor void is present, traditional joists were found resting upon short sleeper 
wallsThere was no obvious sign of failure to the oversite concrete but there are clear open 
gaps in the brick courses of the visible supporting and sleeper walls. This finding is 
supported by photographs of the gaps in the brick courses.
In the absence of any evidence or expert reports contradicting these findings I find the loss 
adjusters conclusions persuasive.
On balance the evidence shows that both policy exclusions apply here; the incident that 
caused the damage appears to have occurred before the policy started; and it doesnt 
appear that the damage to the floor slabs is linked to any movement of the foundations. This 
is further supported by the loss adjusters photos of the damage to the walls which dont 
show any evidence of ongoing movement and would typically be seen if the foundations 
were also moving.I appreciate Miss P has said she had some works done to the property when she first bought 
it around 10 years ago. But she hasnt been specific as to what exactly the works covered or 
provided evidence of what was done. So whilst I have no reason to doubt what she is saying 
here, I have to weigh this up against the report and photographs of the damaged areas 
provided by the loss adjuster. And in this case I am more persuaded that the conclusions 
reached by the loss adjuster show the damage is excluded by the policy, so I agree that HDI 
assessed this part of Miss Ps claim correctly. 
Drains
Ive checked the definition of Accidental Damage which HDI has relied on to decline the 
costs of the drains survey which is:
An unintended and unexpected one-off incident that causes damage to your buildings and 
contents.
The survey summarises a number of issues with the drains. It does mention Water leaking 
to foundation at side of porch, and goes on to say, there is surface water currently draining 
underneath your property. But this doesnt show either a continuous flow of water into the 
ground or that the issues found are related to an unintended and unexpected one-off 
incident. So HDIs decision to decline the cost of this survey is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In addition, the void that was inspected by the loss adjuster was dry in the photographs, so 
any drainage issues dont appear to have affected this area of sub-floor space in the 
property. So it follows that it is most likely the issues with the drains are unrelated to the 
internal wall damage. So I find HDI has also assessed this part of Miss Ps claim fairly and I 
dont require it to do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about HDI Global Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman