DRN-2971913
The complaint
Miss S says George Banco Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Miss S took out three guarantor loans from George Banco. She complained to the lender 
saying they were unaffordable. The first loan was taken out in July 2016 and was for £4000. 
George Banco upheld Miss Ss complaint about this first loan and offered to refund the 
interest and charges shed paid.  
Miss S brought a complaint to this service when the lender rejected her complaint about her 
second two loans. A summary of this borrowing follows  as the lender has upheld the 
complaint about loan 1, I will focus on loans 2 and 3.
loan date value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, 
£
2 26/09/2018 5000 36 243.73 8774.28
3 24/07/2019 8500 60 335.39 20124.40
Miss S complained that the lending was irresponsible and, initially, that it was also 
misrepresented to her. She recently confirmed she only wanted to progress the irresponsible 
lending aspect of her complaint. She says George Banco failed to do the necessary checks 
and didnt ask for bank statements or payslips. She says she had to borrow from others and 
take out credit cards to repay these loans
Our adjudicator said George Banco didnt carry out proportionate checks and better checks 
would have shown the loans were not affordable for Miss S.
George Banco disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when George Banco lent to 
Miss S. Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged 
George Banco to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, George Banco was required to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss S could afford to 
repay what she owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So George Banco had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Miss S. In other words, it wasnt enough for George Banco to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments 
on Miss S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether George Banco did what it needed to before
agreeing to lend to Miss S, and have considered the following questions:
did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Miss Ss loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did George Banco make fair lending decisions?
did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
George Banco asked for some information from Miss S before it approved the loans. It 
asked for details of her income (she declared £1,800) and estimated her monthly costs 
(£1362 for loan 2 and £1102 for loan 3). It told us it checked her salary using a third-party 
income verification tool. It says it reviewed her credit file to understand her credit history and 
existing commitments. And it used national statistics to make assumptions about her living 
costs. It also asked about the purpose of the loans. In the final response letter it says loan 2 
was for a boiler and a holiday and loan 3 was for a holiday. I note on the lenders form 
applicant  basic details the purpose of both loans was captured as electrical/technology 
goods. Both loans were also used in part to repay the prior loan. 
From these checks combined George Banco concluded Miss S had enough monthly 
disposable income to afford loans 2 and 3 and that she would be left with £194.27 and 
£362.61, respectively, after making her George Banco loan repayments.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Miss S was, on both occasions, 
applying to borrow a significant amount of money from George Banco. She was entering into 
long-term commitments for significant sums of money and would need to make monthly 
repayments for firstly three and then five years. So I would expect that George Banco would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her rather than relying on her declarations and/or 
national averages.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Miss Ss complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown George Banco and consider if it
ought to have realised that Miss S most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Miss Ss bank statements from the months prior to her applications. Im not 
saying the lender had to do this, but its one way George Banco could have gathered the 
information I think it needed on Miss Ss financial situation.
Our adjudicator said, in summary, the statements showed Miss S didnt have the level of 
disposable income the lender had calculated and so it didnt seem she would be able to 
sustainably repay these loans. She calculated that Miss S had insufficient disposable income 
based on her financial commitments, rent and other living costs at the time of both 
applications. She also highlighted that there were frequent payments to and from friends and 
family and whilst she hadnt included these in her calculations, they suggested Miss Ss 
financial situation was not straightforward. 
George Banco disagreed saying it understood that Miss S wasnt paying all the rent and as 
we have confirmed there were at time payments in contributing to rent it seems Miss S did 
have enough disposable income. It argued that as we dont know the purpose of the 
transfers to and from family and friends they should carry little weight in the investigation.
I have looked carefully at the statements in the months prior to both loans. 
Loan 2
At the time of loan 2 the bank statements show Miss Ss salary was £1012.25. She did 
receive payments towards rent of £550 but it seems George Banco has accounted for this 
both as income in addition to her salary  and to reduce her rent costs from the £895 shown 
on her statement to use the £425 Miss S declared. I accept its most likely this wasnt done 
knowingly but this reinforces my finding that better checks were needed  they would have 
prevented this. The remaining discrepancy between her declared income of £1800 and the 
credits on her bank statements seems to come from what Miss S has told us was borrowing 
from family and friends. This varies significantly from month to month (eg. from £150 in 
September 2018 to over £3000 in August 2018). 
As the adjudicator set out Miss Ss living cost at this time were around £670, so I think had 
George Banco carried out proportionate checks it would have seen that in some months 
Miss S had insufficient disposable income to support any additional credit commitments and 
in others she would only have been able to support the repayments as she was borrowing a 
lot informally. So as responsible lender it would have realised there was a high risk Miss S 
would be unable to sustainably repay loan 2.
Loan 3
Miss Ss bank statements show no salary payment for the month of July 2019, her most 
recent salary payment is £1290 in mid-June 2019. I would have expected the lender to want 
to understand this. There is still a £550 payment in which maybe a rent contribution (it is 
from a different source and isnt described as such unlike at the time of loan 2). But the 
same issue remains as I set out above. If George Banco is to argue the loan was affordable 
using Miss Ss income at £1800 (assuming it was able to satisfy itself she was still in receipt 
of the same salary) it cannot also only consider half of the £895 rent payment. And after 
combining her rent of £895 with Miss Ss other actual living costs and credit commitments (around £750) it would have seen she again did not have enough disposable income to 
support the repayment of loan 3. In addition there were signs she was already having 
problems managing her money with a returned direct debit and unarranged overdraft fees.
I also think by this stage George Banco should have thought about Miss Ss lending history:   
it was the second time Miss S was borrowing before repaying an existing loan suggesting 
she was needing to borrow to cover the gap repaying the previous loan was leaving in her 
finances. It follows I think George Banco was wrong to give Miss S loan 3.    
So overall, had the lender completed proportionate checks I think it ought to have realised 
Miss S was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay either loan. And I think Miss S has lost 
out because of what George Banco did wrong.
Putting things right
For completeness I am including in this section what the lender needs to do in respect of all 
three loans as I understand its settlement offer for loan 1 has not yet been paid. 
Its reasonable for Miss S to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and George Banco needs to put things right.
It should:
For loans 1 to 3 add up the total amount of money Miss S received. The repayments 
Miss S made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this means Miss S has effectively made payments above the original capital 
borrowed, then George Banco should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If there is an outstanding capital balance then George Banco should agree a 
repayment plan with Miss S, bearing in mind its obligation to treat her positively and 
sympathetically if she is having financial difficulties
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to deduct tax from this interest. George Banco
should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and George Banco Limited must put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman