DRN-2670064
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr N complain that car they acquired, via a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc, wasnt of satisfactory condition. They also say Vauxhall Finance plc 
treated them unfairly when deciding to repossess the car following a change in their 
financial circumstances. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs B and Mr N entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement for a 
new car.
In July 2018, Mr N complained to Vauxhall Finance about issues with the rear parking 
sensors that had been fitted to the car by the dealership. He was also unhappy that two 
direct debits were taken for the car in the month of July.
In August 2018, Mr N contacted Vauxhall Finance to explain that, due to a health 
condition, he wouldnt be able to make payments under the agreement as he wasnt able 
to work.
Vauxhall Finance sent Mr N a final response letter about his complaint. In that letter it 
said it wasnt upholding his complaint about the parking sensors as these had been fitted 
after the agreement had been taken out. Vauxhall Finance also explained that, as the 
June 2018 direct debit had fallen on a Sunday which was the last day of the month, the 
payment had instead been taken on the Monday, which fell in July. The July direct debit 
had been taken as set.
Vauxhall Finance said that, due to the change in Mr Ns financial circumstances, it would 
apply a one-month loan extension for August, so the payment that month wouldnt be 
taken. The letter also provided details as to the options open to Mr N to end the 
agreement early, which included selling the car and clearing the finance, transferring the 
agreement to someone else or voluntary surrendering it.
In October 2018, Mr N again contacted Vauxhall Finance and said that, due to his health, 
he wasnt able to afford the payments for the car. It was agreed that the options open to 
him would be sent in an email, and a 28-day hold would be put on the agreement to allow 
Mr N to consider his options. At the end of October Mr N told Vauxhall Finance that he 
would only be able to make token payments until January 2019. He said he would look 
into part- exchanging the car, or selling it via a dealer, but there would be an issue with 
negative equity.
In November 2018, a default notice was sent to Mrs B and Mr N. It said the 
outstanding arrears on the agreement needed to be cleared by the end of the month. 
At the end of November Vauxhall Finance told Mr N that if the outstanding payments 
werent made in January 2019, then the car would have to be re-possessed.
In January 2019, Mr N contacted Vauxhall Finance and confirmed he could pay that 
months payment. Vauxhall Finance said that, due to the large amount of arrears that had 
now accrued, he would need to pay more than just the instalment.
Around two weeks later Mr N contacted Vauxhall Finance and said he had decided to 
voluntarily surrender the car. Vauxhall Finance wrote to Mr N and also gave him a number 
to call to discuss other options for keeping the car. It also said that if he wished to hand 
the car back then he would need to complete and return the enclosed form. Once this 
form was received back Vauxhall Finance would instruct agents to collect the car and his 
account would be terminated. The car would be sold at auction and the net proceeds 
would be credited to his account and deducted from the outstanding balance. Mr N would 
then be liable for any amount that was remaining on the account.
Mr N completed the voluntary surrender form and returned it as directed. Vauxhall 
Finance arranged for the car to be collected by a third-party company, but Mr N then 
cancelled the arrangement. He contacted Vauxhall and said that a family member was 
prepared to assist him in retaining the car. He offered £300 per month. Vauxhall Finance 
explained that the offer wasnt enough as it would only clear a very small amount off the 
arrears each month. Mr N was told that a monthly payment of £450 per month would be 
acceptable.
A short time later Mr N informed Vauxhall Finance that the car had sustained damage to 
its nearside front wheel. Vauxhall Finance says that Mr N informed the third-party 
company that his wife had crashed the car. However, Mr N says that as he was driving 
down a new road that didnt have any pot holes there was a snap and the car fell. Mr N 
took photos at the scene. As the car was undrivable it had to be collected and taken to a 
garage.
Vauxhall Finance discussed with Mr N whether he was making an insurance claim to 
repair the car and gave him time to do so. It explained that if the car was sold at auction 
with damage then there would be an impact on the amount it would fetch when sold. Mr 
N didnt make an insurance claim and so Vauxhall Finance decided to take the car back 
as per the voluntary surrender.
When the car was back with the supplying dealer it said there was serious damage to 
the nearside front wheel. The dealership said, in its opinion, the damage was due to an 
impact and driver error, and there had been no mechanical fault with the car.
The car was sold at auction and reached a considerably lower price due to its condition. 
Mr N was left with a large balance to clear. He complained to Vauxhall Finance as he 
had tried to make an agreement to pay the outstanding amount and retain the car.
Vauxhall Finance didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said Mr Ns account had fallen into 
arrears in September 2018 and he had confirmed that, due to a change in his 
circumstances, the agreement was no longer affordable. It had given Mr N two months 
to make a decision, as his agreement was falling further into arrears. He had decided 
to voluntary terminate the agreement and had signed the required form. Although an 
offer of payment was made, after the return of the form, this had been declined as it 
hadnt been sufficient to clear the arrears. The car had been collected in March 2019 
after it had sustained damage and sold at auction. It said the balance outstanding on 
the account had been calculated in line with the financial agreements terms and 
conditions. Vauxhall Finance said it had acted equitably, while adhering to the 
voluntary surrender process and the agreements terms and conditions.
Mrs B and Mr N disagreed with Vauxhall Finances view and complained to this service. 
They said that as the car had been faulty, they should have been allowed to reject it 
rather than the voluntary surrender process being followed.Our investigator recommended that Mrs B and Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She 
said she thought the evidence showed that the car had suffered a mechanical failure, 
rather than driver error and impact damage. And, taking into account, the age and 
mileage of the car it was reasonable to consider this had been a premature failure of a 
part of the car, and so it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Although Mr N was reported to have said his wife had crashed the car, our investigator 
said she didnt think this comment was reliable evidence as to what had happened. She 
said this information appeared to have come second-hand from the third-party company, 
who had been instructed to collect the car. She said it was also possible Mr N hadnt 
meant his wife had caused the damage.
However, our investigator said she thought Vauxhall Finance had treated Mr N fairly in 
all the circumstances regarding the arrears on the agreement. It had given him all the 
options and time to decide what he would like to do. She said, although she appreciated 
Mr N was disappointed his offer of payment hadnt been accepted, she thought Vauxhall 
Finance had acted in his best interest in declining this. This was because, at that 
payment rate, Mr N would have been unable to pay off the arrears before the agreement 
ended.
Our investigator said a fair outcome would be for Vauxhall Finance to recalculate Mrs B 
and Mr Ns liability as if the car had sold at auction for the average value of a car of that 
make, model, age and mileage. She also said Vauxhall Finance should pay Mrs B and 
Mr N £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience dealing with faulty car had 
caused.
Vauxhall Finance disagreed with the view of our investigator. It says that, looking at the 
photos of the damage to the car, they show it was due to driver error and the car had 
hit a kerb, or object at speed.
As the parties disagreed the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision 
along the following lines.
Mr N had said he felt he had been poorly treated by Vauxhall Finance, and that this car 
had been taken as a replacement for a previously faulty one. However, Id seen that 
when Mrs B and Mr N entered into this agreement there was negative equity outstanding 
on the first car, which had to be paid when taking out this conditional sale agreement. So 
it didnt appear that there had been any agreement that the first car could be rejected due 
to its condition.
Mrs B and Mr N hadnt raised with Vauxhall Finance that they felt the dealership had 
taken  advantage of them when arranging this financial agreement. What they had said 
was that they felt Vauxhall Finance had acted unfairly in terminating the agreement and 
repossessing the car. So, it was that issue I was going to look at, and Mrs B and Mr N 
could complain separately to Vauxhall Finance if they had concerns about how this 
agreement was set up.
I was sorry to hear that Mr N has been seriously unwell, and I understood that he had 
also had to undergo treatment in the past for this health condition. Mr N had supplied a 
medical letter that explained the impact both the past treatment and his health condition 
had had on him and the way he processed information. So, Mr N was a vulnerable 
consumer and Vauxhall Finance had obligations to treat him fairly and sympathetically. 
However, looking at the actions taken by Vauxhall Finance here, I thought it had acted 
fairly towards Mr N. It had provided him with information about all his options and given him time to consider what he would like to do. It hadnt pressurised him to take one option 
over another.
I appreciated having a car was important to Mr N but, looking at the offer hed made of 
paying £300 per month towards the car from January 2019, this had meant only £1.00 would 
have been going towards the arrears, which by then were substantial. I agreed with the view 
of our investigator that accepting such an offer wasnt in Mr Ns best interests, as it would 
have meant the agreement would have still had sizeable arrears when it came to an end 
which Mrs B and Mr N would then have to have met. I thought Vauxhall Finance had tried to 
work with Mrs B and Mr N to find the best solution in the circumstances.
Mrs B and Mr N had decided to voluntarily surrender the car and completed the relevant 
form. Unfortunately, before the car was returned, serious damage was sustained to the 
nearside wheel which had rendered the car undrivable. There was disagreement between 
the parties as to what had happened. Mr N reported that there was a snap sound and 
the car dropped. He said there was a mechanical fault causing the suspension linkage to 
fail. Vauxhall Finance said that there was impact damage to the wheel which had caused 
the front suspension to fail and seriously damage the cars wheel.
Mr N had provided photos of the damage to the wheel, as had Vauxhall Finance. I didnt 
have a definitive report by an independent engineer setting an opinion as to the cause of 
the damage of the tyre. Vauxhall Finance said that the car had been inspected by the 
manufacturers technical team, who had come to the view that the failure pattern is 
entirely consistent with the scenario of an external influence. However, this information 
was an email and not in the form of a report.
My role was to assess all the evidence that had been provided and, where that was 
inconsistent or missing, decide what I thought was the most likely thing to have 
happened.
Vauxhall Finance had raised that it had been reported Mr N was recorded as saying his 
wife had had crashed the car when driving it. I didnt think I could rely on this as an 
admission that a collision between the car and an object had occurred, given Mr Ns 
medical history. This also wasnt said directly to Vauxhall Finance, but passed on to them 
by the third- party company that collected the car on its behalf. There could have been a 
number of reasons why Mr N had used that expression.
Vauxhall Finance said that, if Mr N thought the car had been damaged via mechanical 
failure, he wouldnt have discussed the option of making an insurance claim. Once again, 
I thought consideration had to be given to Mr Ns medical condition and the impact it has 
had on his verbal attention and working memory. I thought it was possible he might not 
have been able to properly weigh up all that was being said to him on the phone.
Id seen that soon after the car had sustained damage to its wheel it was returned to the 
supplying dealer, and that Mr N had told it the wheel fell off as his wife was driving, and 
he had not mentioned any crashes or insurances claims. The dealership, having inspected 
the damage, hadnt agreed that mechanical failure had played a part in the damage. Id 
also seen that, around this time, there had been a recall notice for the car in respect of the 
rear axle wheel bolts, and that these had also been inspected at the time the front 
nearside wheel damage was looked at. Mr N said this recall notice showed the car had 
faults with its wheels.
I wasnt persuaded that the recall notice for the rear wheels was evidence that the car 
had problems with the its front wheels as well. Id seen that the dealership had only 
tightened the rear bolts.Vauxhall Finance said that, if the car had just dropped as stated by Mr N, then there 
wouldnt have been the visible damage to the actual tyre which was all concentrated in 
one area, and I thought that was persuasive that the wheel had actually struck something. 
I also thought that for there to have been such a catastrophic failure of the 
suspension/wheel then there would have needed to be a significant fault with the car. I 
thought evidence of that would have been clear to the dealership when it had inspected 
the car. The car was relatively new with a very low mileage, so the fault would have to 
have been present from the point of manufacture, and I thought that the occurrence of 
such a fault would be very unusual. Although I didnt have a report from the manufacturer, 
I accepted it would have wanted to inspect the car as there would have been implications 
from such a mechanical fault being uncovered in a new car. Id seen that the 
manufacturers technical team had been satisfied there was no evidence of there being a 
mechanical fault with the car.
So, looking at all the evidence, I thought it was more likely than not that the damage to 
the wheel was the result of some sort of impact, either by hitting the kerb, something in 
the road or possibly even a pothole. I didnt have enough evidence to say that it was the 
result of a mechanical fault with the car, and so I couldnt reasonably say the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
I appreciated my decision would be of disappointment to Mrs B and Mr N as this meant I 
didnt think they had a right to reject the car, and that it was fair for Vauxhall Finance to 
follow the voluntary surrender process.
Unfortunately, due to the damage to the car, the price it fetched, when sold, was 
significantly lower than if it had been undamaged, leaving a larger outstanding balance to 
pay under the agreement. This account was now being managed by another company 
and I hoped Vauxhall Finance would request that company treated Mrs B and Mr N 
sympathetically, given his health problems.
For the reasons given above and, although I appreciated things have been very 
difficult for Mrs B and Mr N, I didnt intend to uphold their complaint as I thought 
Vauxhall Finance had acted fairly.
Mrs B and Mr N have disagreed with my provisional view and say it isnt fair. They say 
their complaint with Vauxhall Finance had actually started back in 2017. This was 
when they had issues with the first car they had acquired under a credit agreement, 
and which they subsequently returned to the dealership, before taking out this 
conditional sale agreement. 
Mrs B and Mr N also say they were harassed to return this car but before they could do 
so the cars wheel had fallen off. They say this just happened and they had only been 
travelling at about 10mph at the time. It wasnt due to the car striking anything in the 
road.
Mrs B and Mr N say they had made an increased offer to pay off the arrears after the 
car had been damaged but this hadnt been accepted. They say they were treated 
poorly by Vauxhall Finance over the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that unfortunately Mr Ns ill health has continued and he needs additional 
treatment. I am sorry about that and I appreciate this matter will be causing both him and 
Mrs B additional stress. However, having reviewed my provisional decision carefully, I 
havent changed my view.
Mrs B and Mr N have raised that they had issues with the first car they had taken on a credit 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance. They say they returned that car to the dealership as it was 
faulty. But, as set out above, Ive seen there was a negative equity element from that original 
credit agreement, so it doesnt appear the dealership agreed they were entitled to reject it for 
not being of satisfactory quality. Mrs B and Mr N dont appear to have complained to 
Vauxhall Finance about the handling of the return of the first car and so I am not able to look 
at that until theyve given Vauxhall Finance an opportunity to investigate. If they are unhappy 
about the handing of the return of that first car then they will need to make a new complaint 
to Vauxhall Finance.
Mrs B and Mr N say they were harassed by Vauxhall Finance to return the second car but 
going through the contact notes I dont agree. Mr N has also said he didnt get all of the 
correspondence I have said were sent. I think its more likely than not that Vauxhall 
Finances notes set out the history of contact between it and Mrs B and Mr N. And if not all of 
the correspondence sent wasnt received then I dont think that was due to anything done by 
Vauxhall Finance. Im satisfied that Vauxhall handled Mrs B and Mr Ns account fairly when 
their circumstances changed, and they fell into arrears. 
Ive seen that Vauxhall Finance gave Mrs B and Mr N time to consider their options and it 
was their decision to voluntary surrender the car. They signed and returned the required 
forms for this process to take place. And, although I appreciate they then made an offer to 
pay, as set out above, this was declined as it wouldnt have cleared the arrears. I still think 
Vauxhall Finance acted fairly when making that decision. 
As the car was unaffordable and the voluntary surrender forms completed, I think it was 
reasonable for Vauxhall Finance to seek the return of the car. Mrs B and Mr N say they 
made an increased offer of payments to keep the car after the accident which wasnt 
accepted by Vauxhall Finance. Mr N says that Vauxhall Finance was rude to him down the 
phone. If Mrs N and Mr B feel that Vauxhall said anything that was discriminatory towards 
them then they will need to raise that with Vauxhall Finance for it to investigate. However, 
looking at the amount of the increased payment Mr N says was offered, the level of arrears 
and the time that had passed since the forms for voluntary surrender had been signed, I 
dont think Vauxhall Finance acted unfairly in declining that second offer of payment.
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr N dont agree that the damage to the cars wheel was due to an 
impact of some sort. I havent been supplied with any new evidence on this point by either of 
the parties and on reviewing the evidence that I have, I still think my decision is fair and 
reasonable. I dont have enough evidence to say the car had a fault and think its more likely 
than not that the wheel was damaged following impact with something in or on the road.
Mrs B and Mr N dispute that it was ever said by Mr N that Mrs B had crashed the car. 
However, as explained above, I havent given that reported remark any weight in my 
decision-making. Nor have I relied on whether or not any insurance claim was made.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs B and Mr N I am not 
upholding their complaint. I would still expect Vauxhall Finance to treat them sympathetically 
due to Mr Ns ill health.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs B and Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman