DRN-4376801
The complaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services (who Ill call VWFS) refused his application for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I dont think VWFS have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for VWFS to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here VWFS have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit to Mr R
because of information on his credit file.
Thats what wed expect them to do in these circumstances so that Mr R was able to review
his file and rectify anything that was incorrect.
Whilst I understand Mr Rs frustration that VWFS havent provided any further detail, I
dont think its unusual or wrong for a business to refuse to do so. If borrowers understand
the business lending criteria they may be able to manipulate the process, so businesses are
always understandably reluctant to provide greater detail and we wouldnt ask them to.
Mr R has explained that his credit file is in a stronger position than it was when he made a 
previously successful credit application to VWFS. Its for the business to decide the criteria 
they apply at any given point in time when they make lending decisions. So, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to suggest they cant change that criteria over time even if that is what has 
happened here, and I make no finding to that affect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman