DRN-3303397
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr W has described the situation as: I felt like I was going from loan to loan, without the 
true knowledge of what damage these high cost loans were [sic] doing to me, my bank 
account and credit rating. It was almost like all my payslip went on loans and so the cycle 
went on.
Everyday Lending approved Mr W for one loan of £1,000 on 21 December 2017. It was to be 
repaid over 12 months at £159.83 each month commencing 1 February 2018. Everyday 
Lending has told us the information it gathered from Mr W was that he had been in his job for 
four months, he earned about £1,619 each month, lived with his parents, and paid them a 
nominal sum of £100. It had a list of loans Mr W already had, and had carried out a search of 
Mr Ws credit history. It has sent to us a summary of the income and expenditure (I&E) 
assessment it carried out which I come back to in the main part of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and although he felt that Everyday Lending 
had carried out proportionate checks, the information it had led him to think he had several 
outstanding payday loans and although Mr W was planning or did use the Everyday Lending 
loan to consolidate a few of his existing loans this wouldnt have improved his financial 
situation. These were signs that Mr W was having trouble managing his finances. Our 
adjudicator also thought that the monthly repayment for the loan along with his other credit 
commitments represented a significant proportion of his income.
Everyday Lending responded to say it considered Mr Ws loan was affordable and for the 
following reasons:
othe proceeds of the loan were to clear two payday loans and bring them into one 
payment, whilst his overall remaining creditors had been included in Everyday 
Lendings affordability calculator to ensure there was sufficient remaining income of 
£182.53.
oMr W wanted the loan to get out of his payday cycle
othis was a relatively short loan of 12 months with a payment of £159.83 per month
ohis bank statements were in order
ohe had no dependents and lived with his parents paying £100 towards rent each 
month, therefore his overheads were low.
 The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer to decide Mr Ws complaint fairly and reasonably. These two questions 
are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr W would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
This is a duplicate of the debt table Everyday Lending created for Mr W as part of its 
assessment on affordability. I have not used any trading names. And Everyday Lending has 
told us that the two marked Excluded in this table are the two I understand Mr W was going 
to be paying down with its loan. HCSTL refers to high-cost short-term loans. The total row I 
have added. 
Creditor type Balance Repayment  
monthlyExcluded
Payday loan £69 £74 Yes
Loan £310 £9.30 No
Guarantor loan £1,009 £206 No
Communication £78 £0 No
Communication £78 £0 No
Credit card £199 £5.97 No
Current account £0 £0 No
Payday loan £394.08 £190 Yes
High cost lender £2,086.04 £189.64 No
HCSTL 
(instalment)£1,004.48 £199.52 No
Total £5,227.60 £874.43
I have reviewed the same set of bank statements Everyday Lending obtained from Mr W at 
the time it was assessing his affordability. From those Everyday Lending would have known 
that the HCSTL instalment lender listed in its own debt table was just one of five loans Mr W 
had with that lender. His repayments to that one lender on 1 December 2017 had been 
£747.12, and that same lender had credited him again with £860 on the same day (a fresh 
loan) which demonstrated that Mr W was borrowing to repay other lending which is a clear 
sign of unsustainability. 
And it shows that the Everyday Lending debt table was incorrect as it had the repayments 
for that lender as over £199 a month, but in fact Mr W had more than one loan with that 
other lender and so his commitment to it was substantially higher. 
Everyday Lendings main argument is that Mr W should have used the loan to pay off his 
credit commitments, as he seems to have told Everyday Lending he would do, bringing the 
ratio of income against commitments down to an affordable level. The two excluded credit 
commitments monthly repayments = £264. And one of the excluded ones, meaning the 
ones that Mr W was going to use the Everyday Lending loan to pay off, had a very low 
balance of £69 and looked as if it was due to be repaid the following month. And the other 
balance of £394.08 looked like it would have been paid off in two months.
So, Mr Ws financial situation was to improve his monthly repayment commitments for two 
months and in the meantime commit him to a further 10 months at just under £160 each 
month to repay the Everyday Lending loan. So, using Everyday Lendings own evidence 
submitted to me, I do not consider that to be a persuasive argument to defend its lending 
decision as a responsible one, or that it would have been a financial improvement for Mr W. 
Ive not seen any evidence from Everyday Lendings records supplied to us that the loan was 
used for paying off specific loans, or that it checked before lending that Mr W was going to 
do this. It could have stipulated that to borrow the money Everyday Lending paid the other 
loan companies directly before providing any money to Mr W. It didnt do that and I think as a result the loan was unaffordable to Mr W. I dont think it made a fair lending decision in 
respect of this loan.
Putting things right - what Everyday Lending needs to do
As I have concluded Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided this loan, it should:
 refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loan 2 from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman