DRN-4288665
The complaint
Ms W complains that following an attempted transaction involving Revolut Ltd she is missing 
30,000 US Dollars. She said the transaction was carried out on Revoluts guidance, but it 
hasnt done anything to locate the funds.
 
What happened
Ms W attempted to transfer 30,000 US Dollars from her bank account to her account with 
Revolut. She said she instructed her bank in writing which set out the International Bank 
Account Number (IBAN) for her Revolut account, being the destination account for the funds. 
This is the means by which bank accounts are recognised across national borders.   
  
Ms W said she entered the transaction details exactly as shown in the Revolut app and so it 
was incorrect of Revolut to say (on 15 November 2021) the details of the destination account 
werent given to her bank. She said her bank asked for a further Bank Identifier Code (BIC) 
for the Revolut destination account and she wrote to Revolut to ask for that BIC.  
 
Ms W said Revolut provided the BIC code for the transfer in writing on 14 December 2021, 
and she gave this to her bank. She said the funds were debited from her account but did not 
arrive in her Revolut account. Ms W said shes asked Revolut many times about this failure, 
and her bank contacted Revolut on several occasions requesting confirmation of credit to 
the beneficiary. As of today we have not received a reply. Ms Ws bank provided the Unique 
End-to-end Transaction Reference number (UETR) and she passed this to Revolut.   
Revolut responded to Ms W to say, the transaction was not directed to your Revolut account 
and that also means that the funds will not reflect on your Revolut account. Ms W was 
dissatisfied with this and referred her complaint to our service. She said shes been advised 
that only Revolut can locate the funds, but it hasnt done anything. She said its possible the 
failure may lie with the intermediary banks BIC, which Revolut told her to use.   
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Revolut provided the 
correct details for the transfer following Ms Ws request via its online chat, but the incorrect 
bank name was used, which meant the money never reached Revolut. He said Revolut, as 
the receiving bank, wasnt involved in processing the transfer. 
Ms W said she couldn't amend the bank name or address on the transfer as this was auto 
populated once she input the BIC from Revolut. She said the BIC corresponds to the 
intermediary bank and so if its wrong it was Revoluts fault. Ms W didnt think Revolut had 
done enough as her bank had tried to contact it without success to locate the funds. Our 
investigator agreed and asked Revolut to do more to investigate the location of the funds.
Revolut said the problem was the incorrectly named beneficiary and BIC, but its agent had 
informed Ms W correctly; If your bank is asking for a corresponding BIC..., which meant the 
BIC of Revoluts correspondent bank. It said Ms Ws account details were in her app, but its 
unclear why she said her bank didnt like them. Revolut said she must have misunderstood 
the BIC needed to indicate the final beneficiary. And it disagreed that the intermediary bank 
had sent funds to Revolut as it doesnt credit its account if instructions dont match its BIC. It 
said it had chased the funds via the payment message system and other means. 
The investigator tried to facilitate the return of Ms Ws funds, but said we've been unable to 
obtain SWIFT code confirmation that Revolut have said they require, and so there wasnt 
anything further we could do. Revolut said it couldnt get a response from the intermediary 
bank and so couldnt progress the recall of the funds. 
Ms W pursued the banks involved in the transaction and said she had information to allow 
the intermediary bank to return the funds. But to date the funds havent been located.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about Ms Ws missing funds and can well understand why she finds the 
mystery around this to be frustrating and unacceptable.
  
In Ms Ws latest update to our service, she said I should tell [the intermediary bank] that the 
30KUSD passed through the IMAD (from the Federal Reserve) passed through on Jan 14, 
2021, and then went to [the intermediary bank]. Because I have not yet received the return 
of funds, I want them to have this info in order to process the recall that I've requested via 
[her bank]. Advise them that I'm doing a recall.
So far as Ms Ws complaint about Revolut is concerned, she said her funds were directed to 
her Revolut account, with the code it gave her. From what Ive seen, Revolut provided the 
correct BIC details to Ms W in order to facilitate the transfer of US dollars, and its full name 
and address. However, it would appear that Ms W used the incorrect BIC or beneficiary to 
instruct the transaction. Revolut thinks Ms W put in the intermediary bank by mistake and 
this stopped the transfer form being directed to Revolut.
According to Revolut it never received the funds into Ms Ws account. It said that it was 
certain that the intermediary bank had not sent the funds to Revolut as it doesnt credit its 
account if instructions dont match its BIC. This appears to be a reasonable explanation as 
without the correct coding it wouldnt be appropriate for a bank to accept and allocate 
transferred funds. Additionally, there is no reason for Revolut to say the funds werent 
received if they were.
In the absence of an instruction to transfer the funds to Ms Ws Revolut account, I dont think 
that Revolut received the funds. It follows that Revolut isnt responsible for the failure of the 
transaction.
Ultimately, when a transaction is incomplete due to an error by the sending bank, it would be 
the responsibility of that bank to locate and retrieve funds. I understand that the sticking 
point in tracing the funds has been the lack of an MT103 document. This is a standardised 
payment confirmation used specifically for international money transfers and is accepted 
proof for the tracing of payments. 
I can see that Revolut belatedly attempted to assist Ms W to locate the funds, but needs her 
to obtain the MT103 document to be able to trace them. Both Ms W and Revolut have 
attempted to gain the document from the intermediary bank, but without success. I hope the 
efforts of both parties will prove successful in obtaining the document, and following this the 
recall of the funds. It is open to Ms W to bring a complaint against her bank (the sending 
bank) about this transaction if she wishes.  I havent found that Revolut has acted in error and so I cant require it to take any action 
concerning the transaction, but I hope that it continues its efforts to assist Ms W in tracing 
the funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman