DRN-3817188
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Consumer 
Finance (Mitsubishi) rejected his claim under S 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of 
his acquisition of a points-based timeshare. The timeshare was purchased by Mr B and his 
wife but the loan is in his name alone. For simplicity I will refer to the purchase as being 
made by Mr B. He is represented by a claims management business, which I shall refer to 
as S.
What happened
In September 2011 Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with a company, which Ill call C, 
for the purchase of timeshare points. The purchase of points would entitle them to use 
holiday accommodation at certain resorts.
The cost of the points was funded by a loan provided to Mr B by Mitsubishi. The loan was 
settled in January 2014.
In September 2020 S complained to Mitsubishi on behalf of Mr B. S said that the timeshare 
arrangement had been mis-sold to its clients. Because the contract had been funded by 
Mitsubishi, it was liable for the mis-sale. The elements of the sale which formed the basis of 
the complaint included:
They were pressurised to make the purchase even though they told the salesman 
they couldnt afford it.
Booking accommodation proved to be impossible.
The management fees had increased significantly, and they had not been told about 
this at the time of the sale.
The weeks which Mr and Mrs B had been sold were not fixed but were floating.
The terms of the contract were unfair within the meaning of The Unfair Terms in
Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
The arrangements were in breach of relevant timeshare regulations.
The loan created an unfair relationship within the meaning of section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Mitsubishi had not carried our proper credit checks before agreeing the loan.
Mitsubishi rejected the claim after S had referred it to this service. It said the claim had been 
brought out of time and it said that appropriate credit checks had been carried out before the 
loan was granted. It also confirmed no commission had been paid. It said Mr B had been 
made aware of the terms and conditions of the loan including the rate of interest charged.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. The 
investigators reasoning was, in summary, that Mitsubishis response to the claim was 
reasonable, given the length of time that had passed since the sale of the timeshare points. 
S did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It argued that a Spanish Court had decided points-based timeshares were 
illegal and so they were null and void. It said Mitsubishi should have realised this.
C also provided its view of the matter and said that Mr and Mrs B had purchased a points 
rights and not a floating week. It also said they had not been pressurised and that it had 
followed the requirements of the EU Timeshare Directive. It also noted that Mr and Mrs B 
had manged to take 23 separate holidays prior to surrendering the timeshare.
I issued a provisional decision which reads as follows:
The complaint about the credit assessment
Part of Mr Bs complaint is that Mitsubishi did not carry out a proper credit assessment 
before agreeing to the loan. It is not clear whether Mr B had difficulty meeting the payments 
due, but I do note that he settled the loan in full a little more than a year after it was agreed.
Our rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years 
of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that Mitsubishi carried out (or 
did not carry out) in October 2011. Mr B would have known fairly soon after that date if he 
was having difficulty making repayments. He certainly would have known within six years. It 
follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service by no later 
than October 2016. Because it was not, we have to consider if there were unfair terms in the 
loan agreement
S says that Mr B has a claim against Mitsubishi as the terms were unfair. Such matters are 
covered by under Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR). A term which 
is unfair within the meaning of UTCCR is not enforceable. S says that the interest rate 
under the loan agreement was so high as to be unfair within that definition. Again, 
however, any such complaint would need to be brought within six years of the agreement, if 
this service is to have power to consider it  or, if later, withing three years of the date on 
which Mr B knew or ought to have known he had cause for complaint.
Mr B knew what the interest rate was when he agreed to the loan in 2010. I do not believe 
therefore that I have any power to consider this part of his complaint.
I would observe in any event that UTCCR excludes from any assessment of fairness any 
term which relates to the price of goods or services. The interest rate in a loan agreement is 
in my view part of the price of the loan. So, even if I were to take a different view of the time 
limit, I do not believe I could properly uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Section 104A and 104B claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual time limit for bringing a claim of this nature is six years from the date on which the credit relationship ended. The loan was settled in January 
2014, almost seven years before any claim was made. I therefore take the view that the 
limitation period for this part of the claim is six years and that it started no later than January 
2014.
It is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought under section 140A would be 
out of time. Mitsubishis response to that part of Mr Bs claim was therefore reasonable.
Section 75 and section 56
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
Under section 56 of the same act, a party which makes statements in connection with a 
credit facility is, subject to certain conditions, deemed to do so as agent of the lender.
I have approached this case on the basis that the relationships of Mitsubishis and C did 
meet the conditions of sections 75 and 56, although I do not have full details of the link 
between the two companies. I have therefore considered the claims against the seller.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. S has set out in 
some detail the various statements made to Mr and Mrs B and which led them to agree to 
buy the timeshare points. They were all made on or before 4 October 2011, so that is the 
date on which any cause of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which S has raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather than 
being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be alleged 
occurred many years ago.
No claim was made until S contacted Mitsubishi in September 2020, nearly seven years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made 
outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for 
Mitsubishi to decline to consider the misrepresentation and breach of contract claims under 
section 75 and the claims under section 56.
Nor am I persuaded that the reference to the Spanish Court decision shows that the contract 
was null and void. I have not seen any evidence that shows C failed to comply with the 
various rules and regulations. I do not consider S has made a clear argument to say that a 
claim under s 75 has any merit even if it fell within the required time limits.
Is Mr Bs timeshare agreement null and void?
Mr B has argued that the timeshare agreement is null and void. In summary he said:The timeshare agreement doesnt comply with the description of a timeshare or the 
standard information requirements in the Timeshare Regulations 2010.
The Spanish Supreme Court decided that timeshare agreements like Mr Bs are null 
and void, and its likely the UK courts would reach the same conclusion.
If the timeshare agreement is null and void, the related loan agreement between Mr B and 
Mitsubishi is also null and void. Ive considered these arguments, along with the EU 
Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment referred to, but I am not persuaded 
that Mr Bs timeshare agreement and/or loan agreement is null and void. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs purchase agreement makes clear that it is governed by English Law - not Spanish 
law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question of whether 
Mr Bs timeshare agreement is voidable under English law. And I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude it should be voidable, given UK Parliament recently published 
a briefing paper in the House of Commons Library titled: Timeshares: common problems 
faced by UK owners, in which it said that a floating week or points based timeshare (like 
Mr Bs) were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of 
itself.
Further, I am satisfied these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare 
contract contained within the Timeshare Regulations 2010. In line with the definition set out 
in Regulation 7, Mr B acquired the right to use overnight accommodation for more than one 
period of occupation, and the contract had a duration of more than one year  and 
accommodation can be from within a pool of accommodation. So, I am also satisfied that 
these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at 
the time of Mr Bs sale or after.
Mr B argued that the timeshare contract doesnt comply with the 2010 regulations because it 
didnt provide an accurate and detailed description of the immovable property and its 
location, in line with parts 1 and 3 of Schedule 1 from the Timeshare Regulations 2010. He 
thinks this means the contract should have specified the unit size and unit number. However, 
under the heading Information on the properties under Part 3 of the Schedule, it says the 
consumer is entitled to the following information:
- where the contract concerns a specific immovable property, an accurate and detailed 
description of that property and its location; where the contract concerns a number of 
properties (multi-resorts), an appropriate description of the properties and their location;
So, the wording Mr B has relied on in fact relates to contracts concerning a specific 
immovable property, rather than a number of properties (multi-resorts)  which only requires 
an appropriate description of the properties.
Mr Bs purchase agreement confirms he purchased 1,100 points. I do not believe I have 
seen the full contract and associated documents, but I am satisfied that Mr B was aware of 
the properties he could access using the points. The Members Declaration document signed 
by Mr B states: We have received a copy of our Agreement together with the notices 
required under the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended) and a Disclosure statement (July 
2010).
This indicates that he was aware of the required information as set out in law.
As regards the Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may 
be exercised and, if necessary, its duration, which is required by Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the 
2010 Timeshare Regulations; Mr B also argues that this wasnt provided because they didnt specify a period or season. But Im not persuaded by this.
The agreement does refer to a season in which accommodation could be used. It does not 
specify and end date to the agreement, but it does say that: Points may be used each year 
for accommodation in [Cs properties] provided that all annual fees are paid up to date, as 
detailed below. The agreement refers to the duration which is given as a code which is T1.
Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the timeshare agreement or 
the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive explained.
Conclusions
S has explained in some detail why it believes that C was in breach of a number of rules and 
regulations  including under the Timeshare Act, the EU timeshare directives, unfair terms 
legislation and both UK and Spanish law. I stress however that it is not for me to decide 
whether Mr B has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the seller. Nor 
is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time limits in the 
Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider Mitsubishis response to the complaints made by or 
on behalf of Mr B.
In my view the complaints about the credit assessment and that the loan terms were unfair 
were brought outside our own time limits and I have no power to consider them.
The complaint under section and/or section 75 was brought within our own time limits. That 
is because the complaint was brought in September 2020 and more recently addressed by 
Mitsubishi. In my view however Mitsubishi acted reasonably in concluding that the section 75 
and section 56 claims and the section 104A claims were likely to be out of time under the 
relevant provisions of the Limitation Act. It was therefore reasonable as well not to uphold 
those claims.
The business did not respond but S gave its reasons as to why the complaint should be 
upheld. It said:
Mitsubishi was irresponsible in lending to Mr B as he was retired and was contracted 
to pay the loan until his late 70s. It considered the bank should have made more 
detailed enquiries.
That Mr B had provided all the documentation he had been given by C and that this 
was incomplete. It didnt contain the Facilities Sheets or the Vacation Club Members 
Guide and Directory.
Any documentation relating to the trial period should be ignored as this was not part 
of the complaint.
As such C had not complied with the 2010 Timeshare Regulations and so the 
agreement is unenforceable.
The contract did not properly set out the period of the agreement and had been 
incorrectly completed by Cs representative.
As a result of the banks negligence the criteria of S 14A is met and so the claim was made 
within time.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of the EU Directive
The 2008 Directive was implemented into English law in the 2010 Regulations. However 
they did not come into force until February 2011. As Mr Bs sale took place after that date 
these are the regulation which apply. 
Section 12 of the 2010 Act sets out a requirement to provide a document setting out specific 
information about a timeshare to the consumer and the details of the requirements are set 
out in Schedule 1. 
In particular, it was required to set out: (b) The exact nature of the right which is the subject 
of the agreement and, if the accommodation concerned, or any of the accommodation in the 
pool of accommodation concerned, is situated in the territory of an EEA State, a clause 
setting out the conditions governing the exercise of that right within the territory of that State 
and if those conditions have been fulfilled or, if they have not, what conditions remain to be 
fulfilled. (c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate 
description of that accommodation and its location.  (h) The exact period within which the 
right which is the subject of the agreement may be exercised and, if necessary, its duration; 
the date on which the offeree may start to exercise that right. 
Further, section 15 of the 2010 Act states that this information has to be included in the 
agreement itself and to not do so was an offence. However, nowhere in the 2010 Act can I 
see that an agreement was voidable should the information not be provided. The Act also 
provides that there is a fourteen-day cancellation period for all timeshares, save for ones in 
which the information in Schedule 1 was not provided, in which case the period was three 
months and ten days. 
Having considered both the 2010 Act, I do not think it makes the timeshare agreement 
voidable as is suggested. 
I have noted that S has said that Mr B was not given all the required information, but I cannot 
say with any certainty that this was the case. I have noted he took numerous holidays and I 
consider it unlikely that he was not given the requisite information to allow him to do this 
which means he would most likely have received what was required. 
In Mr Bs case, Mitsubishi made payment to the supplier more than fourteen days after the 
agreement was taken out, but within three months and ten days of the sale. Such a payment 
would have been allowed had the timeshare provider provided the information required 
under Schedule 1 of the Act. But again, I need not make a finding on whether that 
information was supplied, as I do not think the agreement became voidable if payment was 
taken too early under the provisions of the Act. 
In summary, I think Mr B took out a timeshare agreement that was fairly straightforward. His 
agreement entitled him to stay at a number of different properties run by the timeshare 
provider. Each property had a different cost in points and he had 1,100 points to use in 
each year. Mr B was able to book from 2011 onwards and every year he had to pay 
maintenance fees to access his points. None of this was in any way unusual or unclear, in 
my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was voidable for the 
reasons put forward by S.Did Mr B make his claim in time?
As explained above, I do not think the timeshare agreement, and related credit agreement, 
were voidable. I also set out in my provisional decision that I thought Mr Bs claims made 
under the CCA had been made too late and outside of the limitation periods. That finding is 
not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider complaints about 
the activities of firms the FCA regulates. Mr B made claims under the CCA. Such claims are 
first made to the responsible business and, if the business does not accept them, a 
consumer has several options. They could refer his claim to a court and ask a judge to 
determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they could ask our service to consider a 
complaint about the business decision to turn down their claim. 
DISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which Mitsubishi exercised its rights and duties under a 
regulated agreement when it assessed the CCA claims. 
The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mr B to realise he had a possible reason to 
complain about the things he did before he spoke with S. However, Mr B made legal claims 
to Mitsubishi and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under the 
LA. So that is why I have considered that legislation. 
The LA does not have a provision allowing any claim to be brought within three years of a 
claimant realising they could issue legal proceedings. In some circumstances, the limitation 
period can be extended when a claimant first had the knowledge required to make a claim 
after the date the cause of action actually accrued. For example, s.14A LA deals with 
Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of action are not 
known at date of accrual. 
For s.14A LA to apply, a claimant must have a cause in negligence against the alleged 
defendant, which means Mitsubishi would have to owe a duty of care to Mr B to give rise to 
such a claim. I have thought about whether Mitsubishi had such a duty protect its customers 
from purchasing timeshare products that were non-compliant with the 1994 Directive with 
credit, by undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sales process. Having 
done so, I am not persuaded that such a duty can be established. 
However, in any event and for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded the agreement 
was non-complaint with the directive such that it was voidable. So it follows that any claim 
would not likely succeed, even if it had been made within the limitation period. 
Affordability
In any complaint about lending there are a number of matters to consider. First, a lender had 
to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure a prospective borrower was 
able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Secondly, if such checks were not carried out, 
it is necessary to determine what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the 
checks showed that the repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, did the borrower 
lose out?
S has said the right sort of checks did not take place and I said they may have been right about that. That said it did carry out checks and I have noted that Mr B was in a reasonably 
well paid job. But it has not provided anything to show that the lending was not affordable for 
him. I have seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan. Further, the loan was repaid in 
2014. So, as things stand, I am not persuaded that the complaint should be upheld on that 
basis. 
S argues that Mr Bs age should have given the bank cause to regard Mr B as vulnerable. I 
have seen no evidence that he was. I do not think that such a conclusion can be reached on 
the basis of the material supplied by S. 
Conclusion 
For the reasons set out above, I think Mitsubishi acted fairly in turning down Mr Bs claims 
under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the loan agreement 
was voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible 
or unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman