DRN-2719696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about the way ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has dealt with 
their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were due to go on holiday in November 2019. They bought an annual travel 
insurance policy in June 2019, underwritten by ERGO. Mrs P made a claim for cancellation 
in October 2019 but ERGO declined the claim on the basis that Mrs P cancelled her holiday 
as a result of ongoing investigations which had started prior to buying the insurance.
Mrs P complained to ERGO about the declined claim  as she hadnt been diagnosed with a 
condition at the time she bought the insurance. She also complained about the way she was 
spoken to over the telephone when she called to discuss the declined claim. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think ERGO had done anything wrong 
as Mrs P was under investigation at the time she booked her trip and any undeclared 
conditions would be excluded from cover.
Mrs P disagreed and in summary, has said:
She declared her Osteoarthritis which was accepted  the investigations arose as a 
result of a regular check-up in May 2019 for her Osteoarthritis when she complained 
of breathlessness to her GP  there is nothing within the policy that says anything in 
a declared condition isnt covered by the insurance.
The reason the holiday was cancelled wasnt due to the appointment in May 2019 but 
as the x-ray results wouldnt be available before the holiday.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms exclude the following:
Any claim arising directly or indirectly from a known pre-existing medical condition 
unless you have declared all pre-existing medical conditions to us, and we have 
written to you accepting them.
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
Any past or current condition that has given rise to symptoms, or for which any form 
of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation, or follow 
up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the 
commencement of cover.
ERGO reviewed Mrs Ps medical records and found that she had discussed her 
breathlessness at an appointment with her GP in May 2019. The GP requested blood tests 
and made a referral for an echocardiogram.
Mrs P says her breathlessness was as a result of her arthritis and this had been declared. 
And so she believes she declared what she needed to at the time of buying her insurance 
policy. As she wasnt aware of a possible heart condition at the time of her appointment in 
May 2019, she didnt fail to declare this as a pre-existing medical condition  as she hadnt 
had a diagnosis. 
Mrs P spoke to ERGO in November 2019 to discuss the declined claim. She has complained 
that the adviser was rude. Ive listened to the call in full and whilst I agree the adviser could 
have been more sympathetic, I dont think his comments were rude. However, I can 
understand why Mrs P would feel this way as the adviser was firm when explaining why the 
claim wasnt covered and Mrs P was clearly becoming upset.
The adviser explained that a diagnosis wasnt necessary as a pre-existing condition 
including anything which was under investigation including any symptoms which required 
onward referral. In Mrs Ps case, as her GP had requested further tests  her symptom of 
breathlessness in May 2019 falls within the definition of a pre-existing medical condition 
under the terms of her policy, as set out above. Furthermore, the holiday was cancelled as a 
result of x-ray results following on from the initial complaint of breathlessness in May 2019. 
And so, unfortunately for Mr and Mrs P, this would be excluded from cover.
As the holiday was cancelled as a result of the ongoing investigations, ERGO acted in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. And so I dont think it acted unfairly in declining the 
claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman