DRN-2282507
The complaint
Ms W complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance ("PPI") 
policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Ms W's credit card account when she applied for the card online. The PPI covered Ms W if 
she couldn't work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that MBNA 
hadn't done enough to explain the costs and benefits of the policy. And that, if it had done, 
Ms W wouldn't have taken the policy.
MBNA didn't agree. It said, in summary, that Ms W changed her employment before the start 
date of the policy, so the sick pay she said she would have received arent accurate and she 
would have derived some benefit from the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
MBNA didnt recommend the policy to Ms W, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable 
for her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying.
The PPI was sold online. MBNA has provided me with some sample screenshots showing 
what information Ms W would have seen and it looks as though the basic cost of the cover 
would have been set out. But I cant see that she would have been told that she would have 
had to pay interest on her premiums if she didnt repay her balance in full or that she would 
have had to keep paying the premiums in the event of a claim. These matters are important 
as they mean the PPI could have been more expensive than originally presented.
So the question for me now is whether Ms W would have acted differently if MBNA had told 
her everything it should have done about the cover. To help me decide what shes likely to 
have done, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive 
also looked at what Ms W told us about her personal circumstances at the time.
I can see that if Ms W had had to make a claim on the PPI policy, because she'd become 
unwell or lost her job, 3% of her credit card balance would have been repaid.
Ms W told us that she would have received six months full sick pay and six months half sick 
pay. Shes told us that this applied both to her job when she applied for the policy and the 
job she had at the start date of the policy. And Ive no reason to doubt what shes told us. 
So overall, and on balance, I accept it's more likely than not that Ms W didn't need the PPI 
because of her existing arrangements and because the policy only covered 3% of the 
outstanding credit card balance. Taking this into account, I dont think she would have 
bought the PPI if MBNA had told her everything it should have done about the cost of the 
cover.
Putting things right
MBNA should put Ms W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
1. If the credit card account is still open:
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. MBNA should find out how much Ms W would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Ms W owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when MBNA works out what MsW would have owed each month without PPI  Ms W 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Ms W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms W 
wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate is 8% a year.
C. MBNA should tell Ms W what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
2. If the credit card account is closed and the PPI policy has been cancelled:
A. MBNA should find out how much Ms W would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund the difference between what Ms W owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.If Ms W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms W would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate is 8% a year.
C. If  when MBNA works out what Ms W would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
W paid more than enough to clear her balance, MBNA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms W 
wouldve owed MBNA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. MBNA should tell Ms W what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
MBNA has already paid Ms W some of the cost of the PPI because it received a high rate of 
commission and profit share. In either case above, MBNA can deduct the amount its already 
paid Ms W from the amount it owes her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman