DRN-1655371
The complaint
Mr U complains that Capital One (Europe) PLC (Capital One) incorrectly applied a CIFAS 
marker to him, which caused him to suffer financial hardship. 
What happened
Mr U applied for a credit card with Capital One. He didnt hear back from the application, so 
applied for another card with a different provider (Bank B). Bank B rejected Mr Us 
application, saying there was a CIFAS marker on his credit file. Mr U discovered the marker 
had been put on by Capital One for impersonating himself.
Mr U complained to Capital One  he wanted it to remove the CIFAS marker and pay him 
compensation. Capital One agreed to remove the marker, but said it was entitled to decline 
his credit card application, and didnt think compensation was warranted. Mr U remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Capital One should pay Mr U £250 for 
the delay in removing the CIFAS marker. She also said it should apologise to Mr U for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. Capital One accepted the outcome, but Mr U 
didnt. So he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIFAS markers
Capital One declined Mr Us application and registered two markers against him. It didnt tell 
him that it had declined his application until June 2019, some four months after the 
declination.  Ultimately, its decision to decline Mr Us application was a commercial decision 
Capital One was entitled to make. So I cant say it treated Mr U unfairly by declining the 
application.
However, Mr U asked Capital One to remove the CIFAS markers and it didnt do so for four 
months. When it did, it left a protective marker on for Mr U in light of the circumstances. The 
protective marker wont affect Mr Us credit rating or his ability to obtain credit. It may be that 
he is asked to complete further security checks when he applies for finance, but that wont 
impact on any lending decision: it is purely to prevent Mr U being the victim of impersonation 
fraud. So he wont suffer any harm as a result.
With that being said, Ive also looked at the delay in Capital One removing the CIFAS marker 
and Im not satisfied there was any justification. So I do think Capital One should 
compensate Mr U. Mr U says his credit rating has suffered and that he hasnt been able to 
apply for a mortgage as a result of Capital Ones actions. 
Given Capital One has removed the CIFAS marker, there should be no further impact on Mr 
Us credit rating as a result. Which means the harm caused by Capital One was a period of 
around four months when Mr U couldnt apply for credit. I accept Mr U was put to trouble by 
having to get this matter sorted and that it would have been frustrating not being able to 
apply for credit. So to put things right, Capital One should apologise to Mr U and pay him 
£250 in compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right, Capital One (Europe) 
PLC must apologise to Mr U and pay him £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman