DRN-4311775
The complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed her account to go overdrawn when she 
has no overdraft facility. Miss R also complains that Barclays were condescending and 
showed no empathy to her during their calls. 
What happened
Miss R purchase goods from a business, but said she didnt realise she didn't have enough 
money in the account and went into a £300 overdraft, despite not having an overdraft facility. 
Miss R said her benefits were paid into her account but because of the overdraft she was left 
with only £26. She requested Barclays reimburse her benefits payment, which it paid into 
another account and has since chased her to repay the £300 despite not declining payments 
when she didn't have enough money in her account at the time of the transactions. 
Miss R complained and Barclays called her and sent a final response stating it is for her to 
ensure she had funds prior to making the payment and she still needed to pay £300. Miss R 
said she cancelled some of the items from her order, but feels she shouldn't have to pay this 
as Barclays didnt decline the transaction. Miss R described her situation and would like the 
remaining overdraft removed and compensation for the distress this has caused her. 
Barclays said Miss Rs account went overdrawn on 28 March 2023 after she ordered goods 
from a company. Barclays said it had to honour the payment though she would become 
overdrawn and hadnt made an error. Miss R wasnt satisfied with this and referred her 
complaint to our service. She said Barclays constant demands for repayment disregarded 
her recent bereavement and her mental health and showed no empathy for her situation.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays was in error as it relied on the initial authorisation from 
the business supplying Miss R, and she had sufficient funds for the payment to be made on 
27 March 2023. However, she said in its letter and subsequent call, Barclays didnt explain 
this and said the unarranged overdraft was due to Miss R continuing to spend after the 
payment. The investigator said Barclays should have provided a clear explanation about the 
payment and she recommended it pay Miss R £100 for her distress and upset.  
The investigator didnt think Barclays should clear the overdraft as Miss R hadnt returned 
the items to the business. She said Barclays doesnt charge for unarranged overdrafts, so 
Miss R didnt incur costs and theres no financial loss. The investigator said that she had 
listened to calls between Miss R and Barclays in April 2023 and felt that Barclays staff 
remained professional and showed empathy and understanding to Miss R throughout.
Barclays accepted the investigators view to pay Miss R £100 compensation. 
Miss R disagreed with the investigator that the firm supplying her goods was at fault and 
Barclays wasnt told to accept blame or clear her overdraft. She said that just because it 
wasnt charging for the overdraft didnt mean she wasnt under financial stress. And she 
resented the suggestion that Barclays had done her a favour by approving the transaction. 
Or that she should return items as they were needed and returning them would cost money. 
Miss R said there was no mention of the harassment from Barclays, including calling her on 
a Sunday and telling her to call back on a weekday. She said Barclays constantly hounded 
her in every form of communication adding to an already stressful time as she had no way of 
paying. Miss Rs complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn about Miss Rs personal circumstances and health concerns, and the 
financial hardship she has experienced. I can see she has suffered during a distressing 
period of her life. I can see that her debt to Barclays has been the source of much of her 
unhappiness and stress and so I have looked carefully at Barclays handling of her account 
to see if it has acted within the terms and conditions and to see if it has treated her fairly.
I can understand Miss Rs frustration at the chain of events that unfolded when she put an 
order in on 27 March 2023 for goods that she needed. As far as she was concerned, she 
had sufficient funds for the payment to be made. Initially, this was correct as the money was 
in her account. However, the business providing Miss R with the goods relied on the initial 
payment authorisation rather than making a correction in accordance with her amended 
order. The requested payment was then approved by Barclays, meaning Barclays werent 
aware of the pending amount to be deducted from Miss Rs account. This then combined 
with a separate payment from Miss Rs account to take it into overdraft.
In authorising the payment from Miss Rs account, Barclays relied upon the authorisation 
from the firm supplying Miss R, as is common practice. Barclays could see sufficient funds in 
Miss Rs account to meet the payment and so it had no reason not to make the payment. 
Barclays would not have wished to place Miss R into an overdraft as this had not previously 
been authorised, but it allowed the payment as it is permitted to do under the terms and 
conditions of the bank account. I think the reason for this is now clear and has been set out 
to the parties by the investigator. I think Barclays acted correctly and this allowed Miss R to 
obtain the goods that she has said she needed. And so I dont agree with the part of Miss 
Rs complaint that Barclays should not have allowed the payment to be taken. 
Barclays expect Miss R to repay what shes spent which I agree is fair and reasonable as 
consumers cannot reasonably expect to keep items they have purchased and expect their 
bank to pay for them. For this reason and because Barclays hasnt handled Miss Rs 
account in error, I cant require it to clear the remainder of her overdraft. Miss R has said she 
wants to close the account and she may do so and by contacting Barclays and agreeing a 
time to pay arrangement.
I have considered the communications from Barclays to Miss R about what went wrong with 
her account. I agree with the investigator that these should have been clearer. Although this 
hasnt caused Miss R financial detriment as there have been no overdraft charges, the 
impact on her stress could have been reduced if Barclays had provided the correct 
information and a clearer explanation to Miss R initially. I take Miss Rs point that she is 
suffering financial hardship from her overdraft, but as I have said this isnt Barclays fault. 
The investigator said Barclays should have provided a clear explanation about the payment 
and she recommended it pay Miss R £100 for her distress and upset. I agree that this is a 
fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Miss R has suffered as a consequence. This 
is in line with other awards we have made for complaints in similar circumstances. 
In relation to the letters and contact from Barclays, Barclays can contact customers who are 
in unarranged overdrafts or in other forms of debt to discuss repayment options, and we would consider this as normal practice. Im pleased that Barclays reimbursed Miss Rs 
benefits payment at her request, though this left the overdraft in place. Im satisfied that 
Barclays provided professional and empathetic service during its calls with Miss R and 
treated her with respect. However, I accept Miss Rs point that these calls were unwelcome 
and distressing.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Miss R £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she was caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman