DRN-4342400
The complaint
Mr R complains about the settlement he received from West Bay Insurance Plc after he 
made a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy.
West Bay is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As West Bay has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to West Bay includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2023, Mr R made a claim under his motorcycle insurance policy with West Bay after 
his motorcycle was damaged in an accident.
West Bay arranged for the vehicle to be inspected by an engineer who deemed it a total 
loss. West Bay offered Mr R a settlement of £5,790 (minus the policy excess).
Mr R raised concerns with West Bay as he didnt think its valuation of his motorcycle was 
fair. West Bay maintained its position. So, Mr R asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought West Bay had 
settled the claim fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators outcome. He provided screenshots of motorcycles 
hed seen advertised online. He said there was a big difference in value between his 
motorcycle and another model. He said the values in the adverts were from real world 
examples and he felt they were more representative of the market value. He also 
commented that he hadnt been able to make a complaint to West Bay as it claimed it had 
already dealt with the issue. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say:
The most the insurer will pay is:
the vehicles market value immediately before the accident or loss (including its spare 
parts, accessories and modifications, that were disclosed to us prior to the inception 
of the policy); or
the value shown in the schedule, whichever is lower.
Market value is defined as the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, 
model, year, mileage and condition at the time of loss.
West Bays engineers report shows he used three industry trade guides to assess the pre-
accident market value of Mr Rs vehicle. These provided valuations of £5,790, £5,519 and 
£5,612. It based its settlement offer on the highest value shown. Weve carried out our own 
checks of the trade guides and the highest value we could see was £5,612.
Mr R has raised concerns that West Bays valuation was based on a different model of 
motorcycle than his (which ends in R). However, the searches were completed using the 
registration number of Mr Rs vehicle, and R is showing on screenshots of the valuations 
Ive seen. So, Im not persuaded that West Bay based its valuation on the incorrect model.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Mr R was likely 
to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing this is 
by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national research of 
likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, age, condition 
and specification of a vehicle.
Mr R has provided an advert for the model of his vehicle as well as several adverts for the 
model without the R. Our service doesnt normally use adverts to decide whether a 
valuation is fair. This is because vehicles can end up being sold for lower than they were 
advertised. And differences in mileage or year of registration can have a big effect on the 
value of the same model of vehicle. 
Mr R says he was deprived of the opportunity to submit evidence because West Bay dealt 
with his request to have the valuation of his motorcycle reconsidered as a complaint. 
However, Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive considered all of the information hes provided 
including the adverts he submitted after our investigator issued her outcome. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr R, but Im satisfied that the settlement 
West Bay paid Mr R was fair and reasonable, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman