DRN-3946570
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) provided poor service when dealing with 
a subsidence claim he made under his policy.
Any reference to Allianz in this decision includes its appointed agents.
What happened
In 2017 Mr S made a claim for subsidence. Movement of the property was confirmed and the
claim was taken on by Allianz. Over the years that followed, however, Mr S became
increasingly unhappy with errors he says were made by Allianz and other parties appointed
by Allianz, saying he incurred significant costs and spent considerable time commuting to
the property to effectively project manage the claim.
Mr S has said hes dissatisfied with the work thats been carried out to date, and doesnt
have any confidence that works have been done adequately. Hes raised a number of issues
about Allianzs handling of the claim and the delays in dealing with the claim. Allianz has
accepted that matters took a considerable length of time to resolve and its also accepted
that at times the service Mr S received fell short of what he expected. It paid him £2500
compensation in recognition of this, which Mr S ultimately accepted, but not in full and final
settlement of the complaint.
As Mr S remained unhappy with Allianzs response to his complaint, the case was passed to
me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 12 January 2023, allowing both parties an
opportunity to provide further information before I made my final decision.
Ive included an extract from my provisional decision below:
I should point out that my decision deals only with events which took place up until the date
of Allianzs last final response letter. Mr S raised a further complaint in February 2022 and
Allianz responded to this in March 2022.
If Mr S wishes to complain about events which took place after the date of the last final
response letter, hell need to raise these matters with Allianz directly in the first instance,
before this service can investigate.
There are numerous issues in this case, which isnt unusual given that the claim has been
ongoing for several years. However, having now liaised with both parties about this
complaint, Im going to focus my decision on the key outstanding issues in dispute.
Works to the living room
Mr S says these works are incomplete. Allianz says the work was carried out to a
satisfactory standard and a certificate of structural adequacy was issued. Ive seen a copy of
the certificate of structural adequacy. This says that mitigation work was carried out to
address the cause of the movement and cracking, following which Allianz was satisfied that
the property was stable. It also confirms that superstructure repairs and redecoration were
also then carried out.
Mr S has sent me photographs of the cracking in the living room, but these photos pre-date
the repairs and the certificate of structural adequacy. Im persuaded on balance, therefore,
from considering the content of the certificate issued and the other evidence on file, that the
repairs have been completed and so Im not currently minded to require Allianz to do
anything further in relation to this area.
Works to the main bedroom
Mr S says the cracking to the overcite hasnt been repaired. Materials have been laid on top
of the cracks and so Mr S believes the underlying problem hasnt been addressed and that
he expects to have to dig up the floor in future once the failed overcite starts to affect the
flooring. But the certificate of structural adequacy also covers the bedroom, though it is less
detailed in its description of the problems that it suggests were addressed.
That being said, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that the overcite has
actually failed and I consider the problems Mr S mentions to be hypothetical at present. So
Im not satisfied that there are any current issues with the repairs to the main bedroom. And
Im not presently minded to ask Allianz to do anything further in relation to this area.
Loss of rent
Mr S says market rates werent paid when Allianz made payments to him for loss of rental
income on the property. Allianz says it made numerous payments towards this and has
provided me with evidence of all the payments its made to Mr S.
Ive considered the various emails between the parties regarding this issue and the evidence
of payments made, but I havent seen evidence from Allianz that the rental payments made
to Mr S were in line with market rates and that they increased incrementally over time in line
with any increases in market rates. Given that this was a loss for which Mr S is covered by
his policy, Id expect the loss of rent payments to be in line with market rates so that the
payments properly indemnify Mr S for his losses, and so Im going to provisionally require
Allianz to go back through all payments made for loss of rent, and to ensure these increased
incrementally over time in line with any increases in market rates.
If Allianz believes that all rental payments were in line with market rates, it must provide me
with evidence of all the loss of rent payments made to Mr S and evidence of how it
calculated these and ensured that these were in line with market rates.
Other payments
Allianz has confirmed it made numerous payments to Mr S for council tax, visits he made to
the property and the time he spent dealing with this claim. Its also provided me with
evidence of these payments being requested by Mr S and evidence that they were made in
full. However, Mr S has said that the time he spent on this claim was not compensated for
adequately.
I can see that there are numerous emails on file between the parties over the years, and that
Mr S clearly went to considerable effort and spent a great deal of time over the years to try to
sort out a claim that was taking much longer than it shouldve to deal with.
Im satisfied, from the information Allianz has provided, that Mr S was paid for the council tax
at the rate he requested. But Ill go on to deal with the time and effort he spent on this claim
when I consider the overall distress and inconvenience payments made and due to him.Distress and inconvenience caused
As Ive said above, Ive no doubt that Mr S spent considerable time and effort in dealing with
Allianz and its contractors. Im persuaded that this and the overall time taken to deal with the
claim caused him distress and inconvenience for which he should be compensated.
Allianz says it paid Mr S £2500 overall for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as
a result of its failings. Whilst I think this is a fair starting point to compensate Mr S for the
time and effort he had to put in to deal with the claim up until October 2021 when the offer
was made, Im persuaded that Mr S has been caused distress and inconvenience over a
sustained period since then and at least up to March 2022, due to the ongoing delays and
handling of the claim. I find Mr Ss detailed submissions plausible and Im persuaded that his
life was severely disrupted by the time it took to deal with the claim and that this disruption
didnt only last for a few months or a year but for several years.
So Im going to provisionally require Allianz to increase its offer of compensation to Mr S by
a further £1000. This is in consideration of the overall length of time Mr S experienced
trouble and upset, the considerable time and effort he spent in effectively managing the
claim, and for the additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S between
October 2021 and March 2022.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr S provided further information
including evidence of the underpayment of rent. And Allianz responded to say that it
accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
My reasons were set out in my provisional decision, an extract of which is included above,
and as both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no need to depart from my
provisional findings. So Im issuing my final decision along the same lines as my provisional
decision, as Mr S has requested.
Putting things right
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to do the following to put things right for Mr S:
Increase any loss of rent payments made to Mr S that fell below market rate.
Pay Mr S a further £1000 compensation for distress and inconvenience. This is in 
addition to the £2500 already paid by Allianz, bringing the total amount of 
compensation payable in this case to £3500.
I understand Allianz has made a payment to Mr S which reflects my provisional award, but
Mr S has not yet received it. So if Allianz has already actioned the loss of rent payment and
the distress and inconvenience payment once Mr S accepts this final decision, then it
doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Allianz Insurance Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman