DRN-3666226
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC did not check whether he would be able to 
afford a loan before agreeing to it. He also complains about the way in which Tesco Bank 
handled the loan when he fell into arrears.  
What happened
In May 2019 Mr T took out a £30,000 loan with Tesco Bank. He was to pay £660 a month for 
74 months. In August 2019 he complained that Tesco Bank had acted irresponsibly in 
agreeing to the loan. 
Tesco Bank did not agree and on 12 August 2019 wrote to Mr T to explain why. Its letter 
explained that Mr T could refer his complaint to this service but that he should do so within 
six months of that letter.
Throughout 2020 Mr T was in contact with Tesco Bank to explain that he was having 
difficulty making payments. Tesco Bank agreed a six-month payment break because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic and said that it was willing to discuss a payment plan.
In January 2021 Tesco Bank issued a default notice saying that the loan was nearly £2,000 
in arrears. A payment plan was agreed in February 2021. Under the agreement, Mr T would 
make payments of just over £70 a month from March to August 2021.
Mr T raised a further complaint. He said again that the lending was irresponsible and that it 
was not fair that interest had been added to the account balance , even though he was 
having difficulty making payments. 
Mr T did not make payments in line with the payment arrangement; the payments made in 
April to July 2021 were made late and the April payment was slightly less than the required 
amount. In July 2021 Tesco Bank passed the account to a debt collection agency, as it had 
been unable to contact Mr T.
Mr T referred the complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. She said, in summary, that the complaint about the lending decision had 
been brought out of time and that Tesco Bank had not acted unfairly in respect of the 
default. Mr T did not agree with the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts original complaint was about Tesco Banks decision to lend. Mr T says that it remains 
his main concern. 
However, our rules do not allow me to consider a complaint which is referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service more than six months after the date of the respondents final response, 
unless the delay is the result of exceptional circumstances. I am satisfied that the banks 
letter of 12 August 2019 met the requirements of a final response. Mr T therefore had six 
months  that is, until 19 February 2020  to refer his complaint to this service. He did not 
however do so until August 2021, some two years after the final response.
Mr T has said that the Covid-19 pandemic was an exceptional circumstance and that the 
time limit should be extended because of it. I agree that it was an exceptional circumstance. 
I do not however accept that it caused the delay in referring the complaint to this service. 
The time limit of 19 February 2020 had already expired by the time any restrictions were 
introduced, and I note that Mr T remained in contact with Tesco Bank in the months before 
that. It seems to me that Mr T could have referred the complaint to us well before February 
2020. It was another 18 months until he did so. 
My conclusion on this part of the complaint is that this service has no power to consider it. I 
stress however that I have made no finding that Tesco Bank did or did not act fairly. My 
decision on this aspect of the complaint is concerned only with our powers   
On the second element of the complaint, I believe that Tesco Bank was within its rights to 
continue to add interest to the loan balance in the way it did.  
Once the account was defaulted, interest was frozen, and the debt remained at the same 
level. That is reasonable and what I would expect. I do not believe however that there was 
any reason for Tesco Bank to write off or reduce any interest that had accrued up to then.  
My final decision
My final decision on the first part of Mr Ts complaint is that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has no power to consider it. 
On the second part of the complaint, my final decision is that I do not require Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman