DRN-1436027
The complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr M bought the policy when he took out a loan in April 2000. The loan included an amount 
to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided Mr Ms PPI was not mis-sold for the following reasons.
From what we know about how Nationwide sold this type of PPI at the time, I think 
Nationwide made Mr M aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it out. This is because the telephone loan application form and the credit agreement 
describe the PPI as optional. 
Mr M says he was told he had to take the PPI in order to get the loan. But Im not persuaded 
that his testimony is sufficient to uphold the complaint. This is because his recollection of the 
sale does not appear to be accurate. I say this because he remembered the sale happening 
in branch, when the evidence from the time shows the sale took place over the phone. So, I 
cant reasonably say his recollection is more persuasive than the point of sale documents.
Nationwide didn't recommend the PPI to Mr M, by which I mean it didn't consider his 
personal circumstances and advise him to take the policy. So, it didn't have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to give him enough information about the PPI, so he could make 
an informed decision about buying it. Where it didn't do that, Ive thought about whether, with 
better information, Mr M wouldve declined to take the PPI. 
Its possible Nationwide didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But Mr M 
doesn't appear to have been affected by any of those things. I know he was going through a 
difficult time when he took out the policy, and that he later was off work for related reasons. 
But Im not persuaded that  even knowing the exclusions around pre-existing medical 
conditions  that Mr M wouldve thought he wouldn't be able to make a claim in the future. I 
understand Mr M has the contact details of the insurer, so he can enquire about making a 
back-dated claim for the time he was off sick from work. The cost of the policy was shown on the credit agreement  including the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So, I think Mr M would 
have understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. Mr M 
signed the credit agreement, which suggests he was comfortable with those costs at the 
time.
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr M made a successful claim then he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr M wouldve got back a pro-rata refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy early. 
So, he wouldn't have lost out if hed paid off the loan early. 
This means Nationwide doesn't have to refund the full cost of the policy. However, 
Nationwide has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr M because it got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told 
Mr M about that. Because Nationwide didn't tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about the salesperson 
being paid commission for selling PPI. But Ive not found that the PPI was mis-sold, so any 
commission the salesperson may or may not have received in relation to the sale makes no 
difference to the outcome Ive reached. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman