DRN-2770380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G, together with Miss and Mr G are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has 
declined to provide them with a full refund, in the form of a credit voucher, after cancelling 
their travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs G, as well as Miss and Mr Gs complaint points are the same. So, for ease of 
reference Ive solely referred to Mr and Mrs G throughout my decision as those handling this 
complaint on behalf of the whole. 
What happened
On 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs G purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mr and Mrs Gs trip, including post- departure cover, with Mr and Mrs G going on 
holiday from 4 August 2020 to 13 August 2020. Mr and Mrs G paid £203.76 for the policy. 
The policy also included cover for four medical conditions they declared.
Mr and Mrs G have explained that their holiday was cancelled. Theyve said they were never 
contacted by their holiday providers to inform them of the cancellation, and instead it was 
only when they contacted their holiday providers that they found out the trip would no longer 
be going ahead.
Given this information, Mr and Mrs G contacted Great Lakes on 8 July 2020, to let them 
know the holiday wasnt going ahead, and to work out what to do in respect of the travel 
insurance policy they purchased.
At this point, Great Lakes said it would allow Mr and Mrs G to move their travel insurance 
cover dates, at no extra charge. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 
months of when they originally purchased his travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mr and 
Mrs G could be given a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of their original travel 
insurance policy. They would then be able to use this to purchase a new travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes - so long as they did so within 36 months.
Mr and Mrs G said they would contact their holiday providers, to gain some alternative travel 
dates. But they said they found the holiday providers phone lines were shut down, and they 
werent able to establish alternative dates to go on holiday. Given this, Mr and Mrs G 
contacted Great Lakes again.
Great Lakes reiterated the options above. And said that if Mr and Mrs G werent able to 
provide alternative travel dates before their insurance policy was due to end on 13 August 
2020, then the pro-rata credit voucher for £46.60 could be provided.
Mr and Mrs G didnt feel this was fair. They felt the credit voucher provided to them should 
be for the full value of the policy, £203.76. They said that if they had been able to provide 
alternative travel dates, they would have benefitted from moving their whole policy to a later 
date at no extra charge. But, because they couldnt take that option, they were being asked 
to accept a lower payment, that wasnt for the full term of the policy.
As Mr and Mrs G were unhappy, they raised their concerns with Great Lakes. But it didnt 
change its position. Remaining dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs G referred their complaint to this 
service, for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 15 March 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr and Mrs 
G were due to embark on was cancelled.
 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs G with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated 
based on the remaining premium when Mr and Mrs Gs holiday was cancelled, until the end 
date of the policy on 13 August 2020.
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs G hadnt been able to provide information or 
evidence to show when their holiday was actually cancelled. And so, he felt it was fairest to 
take the date Mr and Mrs G called Great Lakes, on 8 July 2020, as the most likely date from 
which it was known the holiday would no longer go ahead, and therefore there was nothing 
for Great Lakes to insure from that point. 
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs G could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if they 
would rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They still felt that Great Lakes 
should be providing a credit voucher for the total cost of the policy, rather than providing 
£46.60. 
Because Mr and Mrs G remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr and Mrs G.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs G wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy. They hadnt been able to source alternative travel dates, 
and this meant they couldnt alter the policy already in place. But I dont think their reasons 
for cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which 
affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to 
discretion is intended to cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the 
policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As Great Lakes 
were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that 
Mr and Mrs G pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. And that means the full sum of 
the policy wouldnt be payable to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of his holiday. Instead 
they called Great Lakes on 8 July 2020, to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, 
given their holiday was cancelled around this time. Because there was nothing left for Great 
Lakes to insure from this point, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great 
Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. 
It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
I agree with our investigator that the fairest date to use for the date of the holiday 
cancellation is 8 July 2020, when Mr and Mrs G called to see what options they had in terms 
of their policy. Mr and Mrs G havent been able to provide any evidence that the holiday was 
cancelled before this date. And it makes sense that Mr and Mrs G would call their travel 
insurance provider, at the time they learnt their holiday was cancelled. Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 8 July 2020 to 13 
August 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. I 
dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs G are unreasonably 
restrictive. It does provide Mr and Mr G with a number of options, including the ability to 
purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone else. And it 
allows Mr and Mrs G cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned.
I understand Mr and Mrs G feel the value attached to the voucher should be for the full cost 
of the policy. But I do think the value attached to the voucher is fair. As above, Mr and Mrs G 
had the benefit of cover under the policy from 15 March 2020 to 8 July 2020, and so the 
value of the voucher reflects this.  I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs G 
differently to any other policyholders with similar circumstances to them, and therefore I dont 
think its treated them unfairly, in relation to how it has set and calculated the voucher 
amount in this case. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G would have preferred to benefit from Great Lakes offer to move 
their travel insurance dates, so long as the dates were within 18 months of the original 
purchase date, and the holiday was for the same duration and destination. But Im satisfied it 
wouldnt be fair to hold Great Lakes accountable for the fact they couldnt use this option. 
Mr and Ms G were told this option would need to be taken before their policy lapsed. And 
they have said it was their holiday provider they werent able to set new holiday dates with. 
Given this wasnt something Great Lakes were responsible for, I dont think its decision to 
offer the pro-rata credit voucher as the alternative option is unfair.
The voucher amount is calculated from the date Mr and Mrs G first called about cancelling 
the policy, given their holiday cancellation  8 July 2020, to the date the policy was due to 
end, 13 August 2020. This meant there would be 37 days of the policy unused, where Great 
Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £46.60 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects 
the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 37 days after the policy was cancelled, I dont 
think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs G differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to 
how it has set and calculated the voucher amount in this case. And so, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs, Miss and Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it 
to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, Miss G, Mr 
G and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman