DRN-3667538
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd (LV) wont cover the cost of
putting right the repairs that were carried out under her home insurance policy.
What happened
On 5 December 2021 there was a break in at Mrs Ys home. The glass in two windows and a
patio door were damaged, and Mrs Y made a claim on her home insurance policy. LV
accepted the claim and arranged for their contractor to assess the damage and carry out
repairs.
Mrs Y was sent a copy of her options for the replacement glass and it was agreed that the
contractor would carry out a like for like replacement using the existing aluminium frames.
Mrs Y was initially told that the repairs would be carried out at the beginning of January
2022. However, due to delays which LV accept responsibility for, this date was pushed back
to the end of January 2022  and then the end of February 2022 due to difficulty obtaining
the glass. Mrs Y complained to LV about the delays and LV paid £250 compensation.
LV then agreed that Mrs Y could appoint her own contractor to carry out the repairs as she
thought this would be quicker. She asked them to fit the same glass that LV were going to fit.
Following a further complaint about cost, LV agreed to cover Mrs Ys contractors costs in
full.
In April 2022 Mrs Y contacted LV to report that there were problems with her new patio door.
She was having difficulty opening and closing the door and it didnt close flush like it used to.
Mrs Ys contractor said that improvements in glass specification meant that the new glass
was too heavy for the original frame and that they couldnt have known this before the glass
was installed. To resolve the problem, Mrs Y would need a new patio door set at a cost of
approximately £1,700. Mrs Y asked LV to cover this cost, but they said that as Mrs Y had
appointed the contractor, they were not responsible for putting right the repairs. Mrs Y
complained to this service. Although Mrs Y didnt raise the problems with the patio door as a
separate complaint with LV, they agreed that we could consider the complaint in order to
avoid further delay for Mrs Y.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ys complaint be upheld. He said that Mrs Y had 
only used her own contractor because of LVs delays and her contractor had carried out the
repairs in the same way that LV were going to. He thought it was fair for LV to therefore put
things right, including a new door set and frame if this was required.
LV didnt agree but accepted that they should have discussed the weight of the glass with
Mrs Y and offered £250 compensation. However, they said that the problem had only arisen
as Mrs Y chose heavier glass, and that Mrs Ys contractor shouldnt have fitted the glass if
the frame wasnt suitable. They said Mrs Ys contractor should put things right.
Upon further enquiry LV accepted that the glass fitted was the same glass that they had
intended to fit and that it was a heavier modern equivalent of Mrs Ys original glass. They
said they had not anticipated any problems with the operation of the door once the new
glass was installed.
Mrs Y wasnt happy with LVs offer as it wasnt enough to put things right. Our investigator
looked at the new information but didnt think it changed his view as Mrs Ys contractor had
only carried out repairs in the same way that LV had intended to. LV didnt agree that the
repairs were their responsibility and asked for the matter to be considered by an
ombudsman.
My provisional decision
On 16 August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Mrs Y originally complained about LVs delays arranging the repairs and that LV wouldnt
cover the full cost of her contractor. These issues have been resolved and Mrs Y accepted
£250 compensation for the delays and LV reimbursed Mrs Y for her contractors costs. I will
therefore focus on the problem that has now arisen with the repairs.
If an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repairing damage but the consumer wants to
appoint their own contractor, the consumer is usually responsible for the contractor if things
go wrong. But we would expect the insurer to make that clear to the consumer so that they
can make an informed choice about their options.
LV accept that they didnt do this. They say they dont advise customers of the
consequences of using their own contractors. I dont think thats a fair approach. Mrs Y was
happy to use LVs contractor as she was told it was the quickest way to get the repairs done.
However, following the delays and a conversation with LV, Mrs Y was advised that she could
instruct her own contractor. I think it wouldve been reasonable for LV to have advised Mrs Y
of the consequences of using her own contractor, ie that if things went wrong LV would not
be responsible. Without this information, Mrs Y was not able to make an informed choice
about whether to appoint her own contractor and accept the risks or wait for LVs contractor
to carry out the work.
LV and Mrs Ys contractor both agree that new glass specifications meant that there was no
exact replacement for the original glass. What was installed was the closest match. So I
think that the problems with the door would likely have arisen whoever carried out the repairs
 and that Mrs Y hadnt specifically chosen a heavier glass. She asked LV for a like for like
replacement  and wasnt advised that the new glass would be heavier.
When carrying out repairs, we expect insurers to carry out effective and lasting repairs. We
think this is fair even if this means the insurer has to carry out work on things which were not
specifically part of the claim, ie uninsured damage - provided the work is necessary and
comes about as a direct result of carrying out the repairs.
The problem with Mrs Ys door now seems to be that the new glass is too heavy for the
original frame. The aluminium frame is set into a wooden subframe which LVs contractor
said was in below average condition but was functional. LVs intention was only to replace
the glass as this was the only part of the door that was damaged in the break in. However, if
repairing uninsured damage such as the frame and subframe was necessary to carry out
effective and lasting repairs, I wouldve expected LV to replace these too.
Mrs Y says that there were no problems with the door before the break in. Mrs Ys
contractors also confirmed that the door was functioning properly before the glass was
replaced. Im therefore satisfied that the problems with the door have only arisen as a result
of the new heavier glass. I therefore think it fair that the repairs should include whatever is
necessary to ensure the door works as it should.The question then is  who should now complete these repairs? I agree with our investigator
and think that LV should take responsibility. I appreciate that they didnt carry out the initial
repairs, but Im satisfied that Mrs Y only instructed her own contractor because of the delays
carrying out the repairs. She also wasnt made aware of the risks of doing so. Mrs Y was
originally happy to use LVs contractor, and wouldnt have used her own if things had run
smoothly. LV accept they were responsible for some of the initial delays, and I think it was
therefore reasonable for Mrs Y to instruct her own contractor who said that he could carry
out the work more quickly.
LV say that Mrs Ys contractor should have anticipated that there might be a problem and
not installed the heavier glass. However, I dont think LV had anticipated that there would be
such a problem either. They had certainly not discussed this with Mrs Y. They had inspected
the door and were intending to replace just the glass. Ive also seen nothing in their notes to
suggest that they had concerns at the time. They have since said that they should have
made Mrs Y aware of the additional weight of the glass and would have asked her to sign a
disclaimer, but I think its unlikely that this would have absolved them of their responsibility to
carry out effective and lasting repairs. I dont think therefore that Mrs Ys contractor did
anything differently to what LV were going to do. They did what they were asked to do by
Mrs Y  who based her instructions on what LV told her they were going to do. As Mrs Y was
expecting LV to cover the cost of the repairs, I think it was reasonable for her to be guided
by the specifications she had received from them.
So, bearing all the above in mind, I intend to uphold this complaint. I think it reasonable for
LV to inspect the patio door and carry out whatever work is necessary to ensure an effective
and lasting repair, including replacing the aluminium frame and/or wooden subframe if
necessary.
I have also considered the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think that
LV could have handled the repair issues better and I think that Mrs Y has been caused worry
and upset as a result. LV were aware that Mrs Y was a vulnerable customer and that she
suffered from extreme anxiety. Since April she has been left struggling to operate her patio
door due to her physical health problems and this must be causing her additional distress.
LV have offered Mrs Y a further £250 compensation (on top of the £250 compensation she
accepted for the delays) and I think this is fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs Y and LV both accepted my provisional decision with nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither part has provided any new information, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Ltd to:
carry out an effective and lasting repair to Mrs Ys patio doors, including replacing the
aluminium frame and wooden subframe if considered necessary; andpay Mrs Y £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman