DRN-3487126
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have misled him into applying for a 
higher credit limit increase, which they subsequently rejected outright.
What happened
Mr A has a credit card with NatWest. He said their mobile banking application (app) stated 
he was highly likely to get a credit limit increase on his account up to £10,500 subject to 
checks and the actual credit limit may be lower than this. Mr A decided to apply for the credit 
limit increase, but he was outright rejected for any credit limit increase. Mr A says the 
application is showing on his credit file which is unfair. He said his credit score is excellent. 
Mr A complained to NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said they do not guarantee that any 
application for lending or an increase in credit limit will be successful, as it is subject to a 
credit search being performed and their lending criteria being satisfied. NatWest said if a 
customer continues past the offer page, they then advise the customer that if they continue 
and apply for the increase in credit limit it will be subject to a full credit search being 
performed and they will need to satisfy their internal checks. Mr A brought his complaint to 
our service and asked for NatWest to remove the details of the application from his credit 
file.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. She said that an application for any credit 
isnt guaranteed and NatWest confirmed all borrowing is subject to credit searches. Our 
investigator said that as Mr A made an application to increase his credit limit then it would 
not be right to remove the credit file entry.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said if NatWest had not said he was highly likely to be accepted for a
credit increase he would not have proceeded to the application where they said they may do 
a credit search. He said he did not then expect a search to be carried out as he assumed 
hed been pre-accepted due to the use of the wording highly likely. He said the use of plain 
language did not manage his expectations as the wording highly likely was in fact wholly 
inaccurate. 
Mr A said that he had spoken to his local branch manager regarding a different matter and 
also explained the credit card increase issue hes complaining about. He says the branch 
manager said there was an issue with the NatWest app and bank systems that means hes 
not showing on the electoral register when they do credit checks. This could be why he was 
rejected for the credit limit increase on his credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for 
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an 
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be 
clear to Mr A from the outset that Im unable to tell NatWest what wording they should use 
on their website/app regarding their application process for a credit limit increase, as this is a 
commercial decision for NatWest to make. 
Mr A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the wording NatWest used about his chances of 
being accepted for a credit limit increase  highly likely. Its this wording that prompted him 
to apply for the credit limit increase and this wording is wholly inaccurate.
But Im not persuaded NatWest did mislead Mr A with that wording. I say this as the wording 
is not pre-approved or guaranteed. While it does suggest a high probability of him being 
able to increase his credit limit, it doesnt suggest that this is a certainty. The follow up 
question that NatWest ask is also an indicator that the highly likely credit limit is not 
guaranteed when it says if we are unable to provide you with the amount youve asked for, 
are you happy to accept any lower amount we can offer you?.
So Im persuaded that NatWest have set an expectation that the credit limit increase may not 
be successful here. And the wording about a lower amount of credit NatWest may be able to 
offer Mr A says any as opposed to the lower amount. So even a lower credit limit would 
not be guaranteed or pre-approved.
Based on what Mr A has told us about his circumstances, Im satisfied that NatWest didnt 
mislead him with the wording they used, although Ive noted his strength of feeling on the 
matter. Based on the credit file screenshot he sent us, it does appear that he has an 
excellent score and he has told us about the savings he holds. 
So Im satisfied he would be more likely to be able to have his credit limit increased than 
someone who didnt have his individual circumstances. And while NatWest did not accept 
the application, this does not mean likely or not likely wording should have been used 
instead. I would not expect everyone who is highly likely to be accepted for the credit limit 
increase, otherwise the wording used would more likely to be guaranteed or certain. 
Ive then considered what Mr A has said about NatWest performing a credit search. He did 
not expect a search to be carried out as he assumed hed been pre-accepted due to the use 
of the wording highly likely on the application. And the wording on the application said that 
NatWest may need to conduct a credit search. While that wording does say may as 
opposed to will, Im satisfied that Mr A would have been aware that a credit search being 
carried out was probable. 
I say this as Mr A provided us a screenshot of the application where it shows the highly 
likely wording. On the same screenshot it says the actual limit will depend on the credit 
check we do on the day you apply. So Im satisfied this wording is clear that they would 
perform a credit check on the day he applied for the credit limit increase. And Im satisfied 
his credit file would have shown a search from NatWest whether his application was 
successful or not.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about his local branch manager telling him that there 
was an issue with the app and the bank systems not showing him on the electoral register. I 
asked NatWest about this and they said they would only be able to see if a customer was on the electoral roll if they had conducted a hard credit search. As my understanding is that the 
branch manager did not process Mr As application, then the branch manager may not have 
had access to this part of the application processing part of the system. 
But I asked NatWest if there was a system issue regarding this as it would be unlikely that 
an app error or systems error regarding the electoral roll would be restricted to just one user 
and it would likely affect multiple users if this was an issue. NatWest said they were not 
aware of any system issues regarding this. So Im unable to say there was a system issue 
here. But Im not persuaded that even if this was an error with NatWests systems this would 
be the sole reason for Mr A not getting a credit limit increase. I say this as there are a 
number of factors which go into deciding whether a customer has been accepted for credit. 
As NatWest are not required to give a specific reason for the application declining, Im 
unable to say one way or another why the application was rejected. 
But Im satisfied that NatWest did not mislead Mr A by using the words highly likely and 
that they set an expectation they would conduct a credit search, which Mr A would have 
needed to agree to the terms they set out to progress his application. So it follows I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman