DRN-3081370
The complaint
Mr M, as a director of P, complains about the information provided by TBO Services Limited 
in relation to the administration of Ps business insurance policy.
What happened
P held a business insurance policy that had been arranged by TBO. The policy was paid for 
by way of a finance agreement with a third-party, C. P was required to pay monthly 
instalments on the finance agreement and was doing this by direct debit. It seems that Mr M 
mistakenly cancelled the direct debit mandate relating to this agreement. As a result, C was 
unable to collect the monthly instalment due in March 2020. 
On 23 March 2020, C wrote to P enclosing a default notice and explaining that this payment 
needed to be made. C informed P that a default charge of £30 had been added to the 
arrears. And that this needed to be paid by 14 April 2020 or the agreement could be 
cancelled, which may in turn affect the insurance policy. C directed P to pay by phone or 
through cheque, and said that the direct debit also needed to be updated, which could also 
be done by phone.
TBO also wrote to P, on 26 March 2020, explaining that C had informed it of the default. And 
confirming that the direct debit needed to be updated or P needed to call C to make the 
payment over the phone and discuss fees. 
Mr M emailed TBO back, on 2 April 2020, and asked how the direct debit could be 
reinstated. TBO responded the following day, providing Cs phone number and saying:
If you give [C] a call you can make payment and confirm the direct debit is up and 
running.
Mr M had also emailed C on 2 April 2020, asking how to resolve the cancelled direct debit. C 
responded on 6 April 2020, explaining that it was unable to reinstate the payments via email. 
And informing Mr M that he either needed to contact C by phone or contact TBO who could 
assist.
It seems no further action to settle the arrears was taken, and the agreement was cancelled. 
TBO also confirmed that as a result of this the insurance policy had also been cancelled as 
of 23 March 2020.
Mr M complained about this situation. He felt that TBO should have done more to assist him. 
TBO responded, saying that it had contacted P on a number of occasions and responded to 
his query at the time. TBO did recognise that Mr M had been dealing with some personal 
issues at the time, but that it was not aware of this and so had followed its normal processes. 
TBO did confirm that, although there was no refund of the premium from the insurers due to 
a claim having been made on the policy, TBO had covered the outstanding balance owed on 
the policy  just under £1,000. This was to recognise Mr Ms personal circumstances as well 
as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic generally.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred Ps complaint to this service. But our Investigator did 
not consider the complaint should be upheld. He felt that P had been made aware of the 
potential impact of missing payments on the credit agreement. And that TBO had acted 
reasonably by advising Mr M to contact C to reinstate the direct debit mandate. So, he did 
not consider the complaint should be upheld. The Investigator also explained that although 
TBO could have reinstated the direct debit mandate, Mr M would have needed to phone 
them to do so. And TBO would not have the power to waive the cancellation fee  something 
C could do  so it was not unreasonable for TBO to advice Mr M to contact C. 
Mr M was unsatisfied. He felt that it was TBOs responsibility to set the direct debit back up 
and it had not done this. He felt that as he had informed TBO that a mistake had been made, 
the agreement and policy should not have been cancelled. He also thought that insurers 
were required to provide customers with a grace period, especially during the pandemic. 
So, Ps complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms own personal loss and of the impact the situation with this 
cancelled policy, as well as the pandemic generally, has had on P. However, my role is to 
determine whether TBO acted inappropriately. And, if so, whether this itself had a material 
impact on P. 
Mr M has said that TBO gave him incorrect information. I dont agree with this. I think the 
information TBO gave Mr M was that he could contact C by phone to make payment. This 
was correct. 
That said, I agree TBO didnt give Mr M all of the information that it might have. It did not, for 
instance, explain that it could reinstate the direct debit itself, albeit this would mean there 
was no chance of P avoiding the default fee. 
However, although both TBO and C could have reinstated the direct debit, both would have 
required Mr M to phone them. Mr M was aware, following both TBOs email of 3 April and 
Cs email of 6 April 2020 that the issue with the direct debit had not been resolved and that, 
if it was not, the finance agreement and the policy might be impacted. He was also aware 
that to resolve this he needed to make a phone call. This call was not made. So, it is difficult 
to see how the situation would have been different had TBO informed Mr M that the call 
could be made to TBO rather than C. 
I note Mr Ms personal circumstances and I sympathise with them. But TBO were not 
informed of these at the time, and I cannot say TBO should have taken into account 
information it was not provided with. 
TBO would have been aware of the overall situation with the COVID-19 pandemic. And it is 
true that financial businesses were provided with guidance that they should take situations 
relating to this into account. 
But, firstly, the decision to cancel the agreement and the policy were not those taken by 
TBO. I am unable to hold TBO accountable for the decisions of other businesses. And, 
secondly, it does not seem Mr M then made attempts to rectify the situation for some 
months. Had prompt action been taken, the situation may have evolved differently and the 
insurer may have been more minded to reinstate the policy  though as I say, this was not a 
decision made by TBO anyway. TBO did take the decision to cover the outstanding cost of the policy as a gesture of 
goodwill. And, whilst I think TBO could have provided Mr M with more information at the time 
about the different options he had, I do not consider TBO needs to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint. I do not consider this lack of detail was the cause Mr M not 
reinstating Ps direct debit mandate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman