DRN-2339512
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly refused 
to pay her claim under her pet policy.
  
What happened
Ms Cs policy with Red Sands for her dog is a time-limited policy which means it only covers 
a condition for 365 days and thereafter that condition is excluded. The policy also limits 
cover for bilateral conditions.
Ms C made a claim for a cruciate ligament repair on her dog in September 2018. She made 
a claim and Red Sands paid that claim in line with its policy conditions.
Unfortunately, in November 2019, Ms Cs dog ruptured the cruciate ligament in his other leg, 
and it required an operation to repair it. When Ms C made her claim, Red Sands it couldnt 
cover her claim as 365 days had passed since the previous cruciate ligament issue. It also 
explained that it had put an exclusion on her policy following the first claim for both stifles. 
And it explained its bilateral condition limitation.
Ms C didnt think this was reasonable and so she complained. Red Sands wouldnt change 
its stance, so she brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought it should be upheld. 
Red Sands didnt agree so Ms Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint given its specific circumstances. Ill now 
explain why. 
Its clear from the vet history that the rupture of the left cruciate ligament of Ms Cs dog arose 
out of a traumatic event on November 2019. Namely that he slipped on the stairs, became 
splayed legged and was immediately acutely lame on his left hind leg. 
But its clear from the vet history that her dogs right cruciate ligament issue came on over 
time from September 2017, with the repair operation being done in 2018. Like the 
investigator Im persuaded by the evidence of Ms Cs vet. He said the following:
Cranial cruciate rupture is a common complaint in dogs. This injury may occur 
acutely following an episode of trauma or can be associated with a more chronic 
degenerative condition of the ligament. In general, with the degenerative condition I 
would expect osteoarthritic changes within the affected joint and often a history of 
intermittent lameness. In [dogs name] case there was only very mild osteoarthritic 
change on preoperative radiographs and there is no history of lameness on the left 
hind leg. This information and the association with a traumatic episode would make 
traumatic rupture likely.
It is impossible to comment further on the condition of the left cranial cruciate 
ligament prior to the episode of trauma as this would have required 'looking into the 
joint.
He later clarified this further as follows:
[Name of dog] presented at our [name of vet hospital] on 29th November 2019. He 
had slipped on the stairs, become splay legged and was acutely lame on his left hind 
leg. Subsequent investigations including radiographs confirmed he had ruptured his 
cranial cruciate ligament and he had surgery on 6th December 2019 to correct the 
resulting left stifle instability.
In my opinion, this was a traumatic injury consistent with the history just described. 
There was no history of chronic lameness on the left hind. There were minimal 
degenerative changes noted on the radiographs of the left stifle and no significant 
muscle wastage to the left hind limb. I would expect these in a case of chronic 
degenerative disease.
So, in the absence of any other vet evidence from Red Sands disputing this, I consider that 
the evidence clearly shows two causes of this dogs requirement for cruciate ligament repair. 
The first came slowly and the second, the subject matter of this complaint, came on clearly 
from a traumatic event. Red Sands itself confirms it agrees this claim in dispute came from a 
traumatic event. Further once the vet was in the joint repairing the left cruciate ligament he 
confirmed there were no signs that it was caused by chronic degenerative disease. So, in 
effect the only reason Ms Cs dog required the second cruciate ligament to be repaired was 
from an accident, namely the traumatic event of slipping on the stairs.
 
Therefore, I consider its not reasonable or fair to consider there is any link between both 
cruciate ligament conditions. Its not the case that over time Ms Cs dog would most likely 
require his left cruciate ligament to be repaired because there was no evidence once the vet 
was in the joint that it would have deteriorated like that right one had. So, I dont consider 
that its fair impose the bilateral condition limitation in the very specific circumstances of this 
complaint. 
  
Furthermore, given that Red Sands confirms this claim arose from a traumatic event, it does 
mean the exclusion imposed in 2018 is far too wide and unreasonable and therefore 
shouldnt be applied to this claim. 
So, I consider Red Sands should pay Ms Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy with interest. 
Ms C has clearly shown me that she was distressed and upset by Red Sands refusal to pay 
her claim. Therefore, I agree with the investigator that compensation is payable. I consider 
the £150 suggested to be reasonable and in line with what I have awarded in other cases in 
similar circumstances.
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the 
following:
Pay Ms Cs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy adding 
interest of 8% simple per year from the date her claim form was submitted to the date 
it now pays her. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Ms C for HMRC purposes.
 
Pay Ms C £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman