DRN-2881814
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). 
Bank of Scotland charged Mr L a monthly fee for the URCA and provided several potential 
benefits in return. Mr L thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, 
plus interest.
What happened
Bank of Scotland has told us that Mr L has been one of its customers since November 2011 
when it says he opened a fee-free account. It has said that it sold him the URCA in 
December of the same year and that he kept it until August 2020. There is no dispute about 
these details and I have taken them to be accurate.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ls complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to him. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give him any money back.
Mr L didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mr L and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2011, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts, such as URCAs, in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an 
information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. 
Whichever approach Bank of Scotland used for Mr L, I would have expected it to give him a 
choice and tell him about the URCAs costs and benefits clearly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check that the URCA was a reasonable match for his 
circumstances before making its recommendation. 
Part of the dispute in this complaint has been about how Bank of Scotland came to sell the 
URCA to Mr L and which approach it used. 
Mr L has told us that in late 2011 he wanted an overdraft and discussed this with Bank of 
Scotland on two occasions; once during a face-to-face discussion in one of its branches and 
once during a phone call. Hes told us that both times Bank of Scotland said that he would 
not be able to get an overdraft without (buying an URCA). As he wanted an overdraft, he 
then went online and bought one to replace his fee-free account. He considers that he was 
acting on Bank of Scotlands advice when he did this, but he now thinks this advice was 
incorrect and that he could have had an overdraft without buying an URCA.
Bank of Scotland has told us that it has no record of the phone call or discussion in one of its 
branches and that it sold the URCA to Mr L over the internet on an information-only basis. 
As the call and Mr Ls visit to one of Bank of Scotlands branches would have taken place 
nearly ten years ago, Im not surprised that Bank of Scotland has no record of them. But this 
doesnt mean they didnt take place. Im satisfied from what Mr L has told us that they did. 
Im also satisfied that he certainly thought that Bank of Scotland was recommending the 
URCA to him. And he seems to have bought the URCA online shortly afterwards as a direct 
consequence. So, in fairness to Mr L, I have considered his complaint to be about an 
advised sale. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mr Ls current belief that he could have had an overdraft 
without buying an URCA is almost definitely correct. Banks rarely consider the type of 
current account customers hold when deciding whether or not to lend them money. Bank of 
Scotland does not dispute this. It has told us that ..other accounts such as fee-free accounts 
are also available online with (overdraft) options. However, the crux of Mr Ls complaint is 
that he thinks Bank of Scotland misled him about this during the phone call and face-to-face 
discussion. 
 As there are no records from the time, I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said to Mr L 
during either discussion. Instead, I have used the evidence that is available to work out what 
is most likely to have occurred. 
I appreciate that Mr L is doing his best to remember what happened in 2011, but I doubt that 
Bank of Scotland told him he had to buy an URCA to get an overdraft. This would have 
contradicted its own position in the marketplace, information on its website and general 
banking practice at the time. However, in 2011, depending on how customers used their 
accounts, Bank of Scotland usually applied lower charges for overdrafts to customers with 
URCAs than to customers with fee-free accounts. In some circumstances, customers with 
URCAs could save more in overdraft charges than they paid in monthly fees. It seems highly 
likely to me that Bank of Scotland would have told Mr L about this banking-related benefit of 
the URCA. It may also have told him that he could only get these lower charges if he bought 
the URCA. But as this was true, it wouldnt have been misleading. 
As well as banking-related benefits, in 2011 the potential benefits of the URCA included 
insurance for mobile phones and travel. I understand Mr L used a mobile phone (Bank of 
Scotland has told us that over the years he registered eight for the insurance cover) and 
travelled from time-to-time, so he seems to have had a potential need for these benefits. I 
dont know how much, if at all, Bank of Scotland discussed the benefits, or Mr Ls potential 
need for them, during the discussions, but taking all his circumstances into account, I think 
that it would have been reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend the URCA to him. 
As Bank of Scotland didnt switch Mr Ls account during either discussion but left him to use 
its online system Im satisfied it gave him a choice. Im also satisfied the online system told 
Mr L about the URCAs cost and described its benefits. 
So, in summary I accept Mr Ls view that Bank of Scotland advised him to buy the URCA, 
but I doubt it told him he had to buy one to get an overdraft. Given Mr Ls circumstances, I 
also think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend the URCA to him. And Im 
satisfied that it told him about the URCAs costs and benefits and gave him a choice. I dont 
think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr L. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman