DRN-4188666
The complaint
The personal representative (PR) of the estate of Mrs W complains that Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide) made a number of errors when dealing with the accounts of 
the late Mrs W. The PR believes there is potentially outstanding money owed to the estate 
and are unhappy with the service received from Nationwide.
What happened
Mrs W died on 8 August 2021. Mrs W held a number of accounts with Nationwide. The PR 
registered Mrs Ws death with Nationwide soon after Mrs W died but for reasons that are 
unclear Nationwide failed to process this. The PR discovered this in April 2022 when they 
attempted to close and distribute Mrs Ws accounts.
As a result of the failure to register and process Mrs Ws death the accounts werent frozen 
and a number of payments and direct debits left Mrs Ws accounts after her death. It also 
meant the closure and distribution of the accounts were delayed by 5 working days
The PR complained to Nationwide that it failed to register Mrs Ws death which caused 
delays to the administration of the estate and also experienced delays in receiving 
documentation  in particular bank statements for accounts ending 9106 and 5123. 
Nationwide accepted that it had failed to register the death of Mrs W and that the PR had 
experienced delays in closing the accounts and receiving the documentation requested by 
them. Nationwide have confirmed that it had credited back all payments that had left the 
account that shouldnt have and offered the PR £200 compensation.
The PR didnt wish to accept this offer as they didnt feel all their concerns had been 
addressed. Nationwide responded to all the PRs further concerns and reiterated that it felt 
all refunds had been completed and explained that some of the delays in the documentation 
being received may have been due to the postal service at the time. Nationwide agreed to 
increase the offer of compensation to £350.
The PR was still unsatisfied of with this and brought the complaint to this service. In 
particular they felt that Nationwide hadnt sent them all the required bank statements needed 
to administer the estate and that they thought Nationwide had failed to account for a 
payment of £200 that had been transferred out of one of Mrs Ws accounts and thought 
there to be a shortfall of this amount. The PR is also unhappy with the level of compensation 
suffered considering the distress and inconvenience Nationwides failings have caused 
them.
One of our adjudicators looked into the PRs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide had addressed all the concerns raised and was satisfied that there were no more 
outstanding amounts due to the estate. And although they acknowledged the distress and 
inconvenience the PR had suffered personally, as the complaint is raised on behalf of the 
estate they didnt think we were able to consider compensation for the PR personally. 
The PR disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that the PR wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed the complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the outstanding matters in their complaint. Our rules allow me to do 
that. 
It might help if I explain that my role is to look at the problems the consumer (in this case the 
estate of the late Mrs W) has experienced and see if Nationwide has done anything wrong or 
made a mistake. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put the consumer back in the 
position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable if I consider it warranted.
Nationwide accept that it made an error in not processing the registration of Mrs Ws death. 
This meant Mrs Ws accounts werent frozen as they shouldve been and this resulted in 
standing orders, direct debits and other payments continuing to leave her account after she 
died. It also accepts that there had been some delays in providing documentation and that 
its service couldve been better.
To put things right Nationwide have confirmed that all payments that shouldnt have left the 
accounts have been either returned or it has redressed the amount it wasnt able to return. 
Nationwide also compensated the PR personally £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered.
The PR believes there to be a shortfall of £200 relating to a regular transfer of the same 
amount that was made between two of Mrs Ws accounts. And this is the aspect of the PRs 
complaint which still needs addressing. The PR says Nationwide still hasnt provided them 
with the bank statements for account ending 5128 from the date of Mrs Ws death, until the 
account was closed, so they are unable to satisfy themselves that there hasnt been a 
shortfall.
Ive seen a copy of the statements of accounts ending 9106 and 5128 and have arranged for 
the PR to be sent these separately as it is not clear to me whether the PR has received a 
copy of these now or whether they are still outstanding. And although it is not our role to 
reconcile the accounts  indeed that is the job of the PR  I can say that from what Ive seen 
Im satisfied there is no £200 shortfall.
The confusion appears to me to be that seven payments of £200 (£1,400) were transferred 
between two of Mrs Ws accounts following her death (from account ending 5128 to 9106). 
For reasons that are unclear, to put things right £1,600 was transferred back  to account 
ending 5128 -  £200 more than was paid in. But all this means is that on closure one account 
had £200 less than it did at the date of Mrs Ws death and one account had £200 more and 
overall, there is no shortfall.So, Im satisfied Nationwide has done all it can do to put things right and that there is nothing 
further for it to do.
I understand the PR feels that further compensation is warranted given the distress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered due to the delays in the administration caused by 
Nationwides error. But as has already been explained by our adjudicator the PR is not the 
complainant here, they are merely acting on behalf of the estate and so it is not in my 
powers to make an award for any distress and inconvenience they feel theyve suffered 
personally  though I do appreciate the difficult role theyve taken on and the responsibilities 
that come with that.
In any case, things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake warrants 
compensation. My understanding is that the closure of the accounts were delayed by 
approximately 5 working days and the estate hasnt suffered any financial loss due to this 
delay. So this being the case I dont consider a financial award justified and I think what 
Nationwide has already done to settle this complaint fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided what Nationwide Building Society has already 
done is a fair way to settle the estate of Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman