DRN-1416193
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the level of service Aviva Insurance Limited provided when repairing 
her cars windscreen after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Mrs S is represented 
in this matter by her husband, Mr S, a named driver on her policy. He wants £125 
compensation for their trouble and upset and the option to use a preferred repairer in the 
future. 
What happened
Mrs Ss car had a cracked windscreen and Mr S made a claim to Aviva. But he was unhappy 
with the delay in the repairer attending and that he was asked to pay his policy excess 
upfront rather than on the day the repair was made. The windscreen was eventually repaired 
by his preferred repairer and Mr S thought hed been given conflicting information about this. 
He said hed spent time on the phone and lost work. He wanted to be able to go to the 
preferred repairer in the case of another occurrence. Aviva offered him £75 compensation 
for the confusion and contradictory information. But Mr S wanted £125. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been confusion and contradictory information. But he thought Avivas offer of £75 
compensation for this was fair and reasonable. He thought Aviva had provided the service 
required by Mrs Ss policys terms and conditions. He thought this said the policy excess was 
payable. The preferred repairer wasnt approved under Mrs Ss policy. And he thought the 
wait for the repair was a common inconvenience in making a claim. 
Mr S replied that he didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the confusion and conflicting information, Aviva allowed Mr S to have the repair made 
at a repairer of his choice. It said it would refund Mr S the cost for this less the policy excess. 
Mrs Ss windscreen was repaired, and the repairer let him pay just his £75 policy excess and 
it invoiced Aviva for its costs. So Mr S isnt out of pocket. Whats left for me to consider is the 
level of service provided, the level of compensation offered, and Mr Ss request for future 
service. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Ss policy says that in the case of windscreen repairs, she would be directed to an 
approved repairer. Aviva has explained that theres only one approved repairer for her 
policy. It allowed Mr S to use a preferred repairer in this case, but it expected Mr S to pay the 
costs and it said it would reimburse him. It said it didnt have a contract under Mrs Ss policy 
with this repairer. This is its commercial decision and so not something for me to comment 
on. And so I cant require Aviva to allow Mrs S to use her preferred repairer on the same 
terms in the future. 
But I can see that the policy does provide that Mrs S can use a non-approved repairer, but 
there is claim limit of £185, rather than an unlimited amount, for windscreen replacement. I 
can see from Avivas file notes that this was explained to Mr S when he was unhappy with 
the approved repairer. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr S was unhappy that he had to pay his policy excess before the repairs were made. I can 
understand his feelings. But I can see that hes required by the policy terms and conditions 
to pay his excess. And while the policy doesnt say he has to pay this in advance, its 
common industry practice. So I cant say that Aviva was unfair or unreasonable in requiring 
this. 
Aviva agreed that it hadnt returned a call as promised and it said its repairer hadnt 
honoured its agreement that Mr S could pay his policy excess on the day. It offered him £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I can understand Mr Ss frustration that 
he had to make several calls. But I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in 
similar situations. So I dont require Aviva to increase this. 
Mr S was originally told hed have to wait two days for the repairs to be made. This was then 
changed to one day. I dont think thats unreasonable for a windscreen repair. I can 
understand that Mrs S couldnt use her car in the meantime. But I think this isnt an unusual 
level of inconvenience and so I dont consider that Aviva should compensate her for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman