DRN-3405886
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S. A. has settled a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance policy in January 2020. In February 2020, 
they flew abroad. They were due to return to the UK on 3 April 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Gs trip was extended. They 
were ultimately able to return to the UK on a repatriation flight on 4 May 2020. They made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy for the cost of the repatriation flight, together with daily 
living costs.
Mapfre accepted and settled Mr and Mrs Gs claim for the cost of their repatriation flight 
under the curtailment section of the policy. However, it concluded that their daily living costs 
werent covered by the policy terms. So it excluded these costs from the settlement. It did 
accept that thered been delays in the way itd handled the claim though, so it paid Mr and 
Mrs G £150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Mapfres decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had treated Mr and Mrs G fairly. He didnt think the policy 
terms covered the cost of the living expenses theyd incurred. And he thought the 
compensation Mapfre had paid Mr and Mrs G was reasonable to reflect the impact its claims 
handling had likely had on them.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They said it was disappointing that Mapfre wasnt considering 
additional expenses, despite specifically requesting this information in its claims forms. They 
understood that the policy didnt cover daily living expenses, but they didnt think that Mapfre 
had acted in line with an industry bodys pledge in regard to Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, I think Mapfre has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
Mapfre treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Mapfre. It appears that Mapfre considered the claim under the 
Cancelling and cutting short your holiday section of the policy, even though the trip was 
extended rather than cut short. In my view, this was a reasonable response from Mapfre. 
This section of the policy says Mapfre will provide the following cover if a trip has to be 
curtailed because of one of a list of specific insured events (which includes changes in 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office Advice):
 Travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay under a 
contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid excursions, tours or 
activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip: and
 Reasonable extra travel costs if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cutting short your 
trip.
In this case, Mapfre has already settled the cost of Mr and Mrs Gs additional travel costs, so 
I dont think I need to make any further finding on this point. 
The outstanding costs Mr and Mrs G have claimed for are the food and hygiene products 
they bought while they remained abroad. As Ive set out above, the policy only covers pre-
paid travel and accommodation expenses or extra travel costs. Theres no cover for daily 
living costs. And Mapfre has set out a list of things its specifically chosen to exclude from 
cover. One of these is:
Costs of phone calls or faxes, meals, taxi fares (except for taxi costs paid for the initial 
journey to and from a hospital abroad due to an insured person's illness or injury), 
interpreters' fees, inconvenience, distress, loss of earnings, loss of enjoyment of the holiday, 
time share maintenance fees, holiday property bonds or points and any extra travel or 
accommodation costs (unless we authorised these or they are part of a valid claim under 
section A, section B or section J.
It's clear that Mapfre has chosen to exclude the costs of meals from cover. And while I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs G wanted to buy products which would potentially protect them 
from contracting Covid-19, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mapfre to conclude that 
these were neither travel nor accommodation expenses. This means I dont think Mapfre 
acted unfairly when it declined to pay this element of the claim.
Id add too that in my experience, most, if not all, travel insurance exclude the costs of food 
or meals from cover. Thats because regardless of whether a policyholder is on holiday or at 
home, theyll likely always need to buy food and meals and would therefore always likely 
incur such costs. So I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly 
direct Mapfre to settle these particular costs.
It's clear that Mapfre acknowledges that there were delays in the way it handled this claim 
and that it didnt handle things as well as it shouldve done. Its paid Mr and Mrs G £150 
compensation to recognise its mistakes. While I dont doubt how frustrating the delays Mr 
and Mrs G experienced mustve been, I find that £150 compensation is sufficient to reflect 
the likely trouble and upset I think Mapfres handling of the claim caused them. So Im not 
telling Mapfre to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman