DRN-1967094
 
The complaint
Miss S says Apfin Ltd (trading as cashasap.co.uk) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S took out one loan with Apfin in August 2019. The loan was for £300 and was 
repayable in three monthly instalments.
An adjudicator considered Miss Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss S 
asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Apfin needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
repay her loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive seen that before lending to Miss S Apfin asked her to provide some information about 
her income and expenditure. Miss S said her income was £1,750 per month and that her 
monthly expenditure (including rent/mortgage, utilities, clothing and food, council tax, credit 
commitments and travel) came to £945. This would leave Miss S with a monthly disposable 
income in the region of £805.
I think the checks Apfin carried out were proportionate. Bearing in mind the above income 
and expenditure information and that the largest monthly loan instalment was £149.26, 
I dont think Apfin was wrong to have agreed to this loan. Ive not seen any evidence Miss S 
was in financial difficulty at the time she asked for this loan.
Ive seen the medical evidence provided by Miss S, but theres no suggestion Apfin was 
aware of any of this before it decided to lend to her. Im not sure if Miss S has told Apfin 
about this medical evidence, or her current employment situation but if she hasnt Id suggest 
she do so  and I remind Apfin of its duty to treat Miss S positively and sympathetically in 
respect of the outstanding debt.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
