DRN-3653050
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Evolution Lending Limited (Evolution) mis-sold them a loan in 
2015. They say Evolution didnt set out clearly the additional fees and charges that were 
associated with the loan. Mr H and Mrs H also complain that the actual amount repayable 
was never explained to them. 
When Mr H and Mrs H complained, they complained about two separate loans, one taken in 
2014 and one taken in 2015. This decision relates to the loan they took out in 2015 only. 
There will be a separate decision about the loan from 2014.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H took out a loan in 2014. In November 2015 they took out a new loan which 
incorporated the 2014 loan with a new increased amount. Mr H and Mrs H said that neither 
the fees they would incur, nor the full repayment amount was made clear to them at the time 
the loan was taken out. They said theyd been paying for years and the amount they had to 
repay is almost double the loan amount.  
Evolution said it explained everything to Mr H and Mrs H when they took out the loan. They 
said there was a telephone call where everything was set out clearly, and theyve provided a 
copy of the loan agreement which is signed by both Mr H and Mrs H. This loan agreement 
sets out the interest rate applicable, the fees chargeable and the total charge for credit. 
But Mr H and Mrs H remained unhappy and they brought a complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and said that Evolution hadnt done anything wrong.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H and Mrs Hs key issue is that they say the loan was mis-sold to them. They say the 
fees were never explained, the rate and the amount payable were too high and that this loan 
has caused them a lot of emotional stress, especially during the pandemic.
Its down to lenders such as Evolution to decide what interest rates it wishes to offer, and 
what charges it sees fit to impose. And its down to consumers such as Mr H and Mrs H to 
decide if theyre prepared to accept those terms. So, to decide this case I need to ensure 
that Evolution made it clear to Mr H and Mrs H what the interest rates and charges would be 
before the loan was granted  giving them all they needed to make an informed decision in 
taking out the loan.
So, Ive looked at the sale of the loan and what happened at the time. Evolution has supplied 
us with a copy of the call recording Mr H had with Evolution on 16 November 2015, its final 
response and the signed loan agreement.
Mr H called Evolution on the back of a letter he and Mrs H had received as loyal customers. 
During the call Mr H was asked to confirm various details of the loan, the amount he was 
looking for and why he needed it. The agent initially goes through what amount Evolution 
could lend to Mr H and Mrs H. Mr H thinks the amount repayable is too high, and the agent 
puts him on hold to discuss this with a manager. The agent comes back on the call, and sets 
out a new updated offer, at a new interest rate - annual percentage rate (APR). They discuss 
the term of the loan, and the agent sets out the figures which include the total amount 
repayable, the APR of the loan and the monthly repayment amount. Evolution explain on the 
phone that at the start of the loan Mr H and Mrs H would be paying more interest than at the 
end, because of payments going more towards interest rather than the amount borrowed. 
Looking at the paperwork Ive seen, the signed fixed sum loan agreement, and the 
breakdown of the fees, interest and amount payable, I can see the interest and charges Mr 
H and Mrs H are paying are the same ones that were confirmed in these calls. With that in 
mind and having listened to the call recording, I can only conclude Mr H and Mrs H were 
given all the information they shouldve been regarding the interest and charges on the loan.
I also note that during the call it was clear that Mr H and Mrs H were already customers with 
Evolution, and already had credit with Evolution which was being repaid on time with no 
issues. Evolution went through and explained what it could lend to Mr H and Mrs H, based 
on the other credit they had with Evolution and with other lenders. During the call Mr H 
indicated that they wanted a lower monthly repayment and Evolution and Mr H spent a long 
time talking about this. So, I think everything was made very clear and it was a loan that Mr 
H and Mrs H wanted. 
So, overall, I dont think the loan was mis-sold. Fees and charges were clearly set out both in 
the call and in the paperwork, and Mr H and Mrs H were aware of the agreement they were 
entering into. I know Mr H and Mrs H will be disappointed with this outcome. But taking all of 
the information Ive seen into account; I see no reason to say the loan was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman