DRN-3090720
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr A took out a loan with Madison for £1,800. He said the loan was to 
consolidate his debts. The loan was taken out over 24 months with an APR of 169.9% and 
his monthly repayments were £182.47 making the total repayable at the end of the term 
£4,379.28. The loan was repaid in August 2018.
Mr A complained that Madison hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Madison looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr A referred his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint and thought Madison shouldnt have lent the loan. 
As Madison disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr As complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Madison complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
With regard to the first question, Madison gathered some information from Mr A about his 
income and expenditure before it made the loan. It also carried out a credit check. 
Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that because: 
the loan was over a period of 24 months and Madison needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of time.
Mr A had taken out a loan with an outstanding balance of £7,123 only four months 
earlier.
At the start of 2017 hed taken out a loan with an outstanding balance of £1,984.
He owed £320 on his credit card.
Ive considered that Mr A said he intended to use this loan to repay some of his debts. But 
the amount he was borrowing was significantly less than what he owed to other lenders. So 
in my view Madison should have queried this as I think taking out three unsecured loans in 
under a year indicated that Mr A might well be under some sort of financial pressure.
Mr A declared a net income of £1,800 a month and living costs of £655, including his 
mortgage. He also said he had no existing credit commitments. However Madison could see 
his unsecured commitments were £368 a month based on the commitments it saw on his 
credit report, excluding the new loan repayment of £182.47. So in giving the loan Madison was increasing Mr As monthly unsecured credit commitments to around £550  a significant 
proportion of Mr As monthly income. I think Madison ought to have realised this meant there 
was a risk the repayments would not be sustainably affordable for Mr A. The fact he made 
all his repayments does not alter this finding as we dont know how Mr A managed to do so. 
So, while on the surface the statistical calculation showed Mr A should be able to afford the 
loan, I think looking at his borrowing patterns there was some doubt as to whether hed be 
able to maintain the repayments over a 24 month period. So, I dont think Madison focussed 
on Mr A as a borrower and his specific circumstances. I think Madison ought reasonably to 
have been aware it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the 
loan term. In my opinion Madison should reasonably have concluded that it was not 
appropriate to lend to Mr A.
Ive also thought about whether Madison acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Madison should:
refund all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid towards the loan;
add 8%* simple interest on the above from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. Madison must give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
(trading as 118 118 Money) should put things right for Mr A as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman