DRN-2831231
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd (MAYFLY 21 LTD). He isnt 
happy that it failed to add a no claims discount (NCD) protection to his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr H took his motor insurance policy out through Be Wiser over a number of years. He was 
very disappointed to find out that his policy didnt have a protected NCD back in 2018 so he 
complained to Be Wiser. It acknowledged that it shouldve added NCD protection and 
offered £50 compensation and some vouchers in acknowledgement of some of its errors. 
But Mr H wasnt happy with this and complained to Be Wiser. Be Wiser said that Mr H wasnt 
prejudiced by its error as he got his insurance cheaper while his NCD wasnt protected and 
he didnt have a claim, so its error didnt have any impact on Mr H. As Mr H didnt feel that 
Be Wiser had compensated him sufficiently he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She thought that Mr H 
was caused stress and inconvenience by Be Wisers error and thought that he should be 
awarded £150 compensation as opposed to £50. This included acknowledgement of the 
difficulty a system error caused Mr H.
Be Wiser didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H as he has put a lot of 
time and effort into this complaint. But Ill explain why.
I agree that Be Wiser shouldve added NCD protection to Mr Hs policy as it was clear that is 
what he wanted. But, fortunately, it hasnt had any effect on Mr H as he didnt have an 
accident or incident that would have affected his NCD in any event. And in fact Mr H will 
have saved money during this period of time as he hasnt paid any extra premium to protect 
his NCD. Indeed, if Mr H had had an accident then it is likely that Be Wiser wouldve been 
asked to try and put Mr H back into the position he wouldve been but for Be Wisers error.
So, although I can understand why Mr H was concerned about this I think Be Wisers offer of 
£50 compensation and a store voucher is fair. An awful lot of Mr Hs inconvenience has been 
caused by the fact that he wouldnt accept the failing by Be Wiser and its offer of a small 
amount of compensation in acknowledgement of its error. But I think Be Wisers actions and 
compensation seems fair given the fact that Mr H has had the benefit of a cheaper premium 
and his NCD hasnt been impacted anyway.
I know Mr H feels that Be Wiser have been difficult about all of this, but I think they have 
acted fairly in the circumstances and Im not intending to ask them to do anything further. I 
know there was also a small system error, but I think the £50 offer of compensation and a 
store voucher covers this as well.
Replies and developments
Be Wiser didnt comment on my provisional decision while Mr H made detailed 
representations. And I delayed finalising my decision as Mr H said he had further information 
which he provided.
However, in the main Mr H just restated his position. He feels Be Wiser have lied and 
wasted his time in response to his complaint which is what has caused him the greatest 
impact as opposed to not just having his no claims discount protected. 
Mr H also feels that Be Wisers staff have evaded his questions. And he has brought up new 
information in relation to issues and concerns he has generally about the process of applying 
for insurance with Be Wiser now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive particularly focussed on the further detail and information Mr H has provided in response 
to my provisional decision alongside the original available evidence. But, as our investigator 
explained to Mr H when she acknowledged the further information he provided, I cant 
comment on any new complaint points that have been raised after the complaint was 
referred to this service. So, I cant comment on his latest representations about the process 
of applying for insurance now. I say this as that would have to be advanced as a new 
complaint. And I must highlight that this wouldnt have had any effect on what happened 
previously in any event. 
However, I do take Mr Hs point that he has put a lot of time and effort into advancing this 
complaint. And I do understand that he wants to make a wider point about how all this 
happened, and he feels that something like this could happen again. But that isnt the focus 
of this complaint, so I wont elaborate or comment on this here.
In looking at this complaint Ive tried to ensure he was put back into the position he would 
have been but for the error, which Be Wiser has acknowledged. And as he hasnt had a 
claim and paid less for his insurance (because he didnt pay any extra to have his NCD 
protected) I think he hasnt been prejudiced in any event. And, as Ive outlined above, if Mr H 
had had an accident then Be Wiser wouldve had to cover off its error and ensure that the 
failure to apply the NCD protection didnt impact on Mr H. 
I know Mr H feels that he should be paid a lot more in compensation but given that he didnt 
pay as much for his insurance and didnt have a claim I think Be Wisers offer of £50 
compensation, alongside a voucher, seems fair. This services awards are generally modest 
and had Mr H accepted this position earlier he wouldve faced a lot less stress and 
inconvenience in any event. 
Given all of this, I think Be Wiser has acted fairly in response to Mr Hs complaint and I wont 
be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decisionIt follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman