DRN-2433682
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Allianz plcs decision to reject a claim Mr C made 
under a home insurance policy. They are being represented by K in their complaint. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr C reported damage to the building of his home. Pebbledash covering 
had come away from a gable wall.
Allianz asked Mr C to obtain a quote from a builder showing the cause of damage and an 
estimate for the repairs, which he did. Allianz instructed a loss adjuster (LA) on its behalf to 
inspect the damage in February 2020. The LA concluded that the damage hadnt been 
caused by an insured peril, but over time due to gradual wear and tear. As Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy with Allianz excluded cover for damage not caused accidentally or by an insured peril, 
Allianz rejected the claim.
In June 2020 Mr C raised a number of complaints with Allianz about its handling of the claim, 
its decision and how it deal with a Subject Access Request (SAR) he made. He was also 
unhappy that he was asked to arrange the services of a builder to obtain a quote for repairs 
and identify the cause of damage.
In July 2020 Allianz didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. And so K asked us to look at Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted reasonably. Mr K didnt agree. He said Mr and 
Mrs C believe their policy with Allianz is an all risks policy and so they dont need to show 
that an insured peril occurred. They dont agree that online images from previous years of 
the gable wall show any deterioration to the plaster, as the LA said. They believe the 
damage was caused accidentally and should be met under the policy. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the introduction of Allianzs policy, it says; We will, subject to the terms, conditions, 
limitations and exclusions of this Policy, indemnify You against loss, damage or legal liability 
which occurs during any Period of Insurance for which You have paid or agree to pay the 
premium.
There is a section titled All Risks Cover under the contents page of the policy. This refers 
to the Accidental Damage section. However, this also says NOTE: For exclusions which 
apply to the whole of your Policy see General Exclusions on pages 4042. 
Insurance policies provide indemnity for specified insured perils. It isnt unusual for an 
insurance policy to have exclusions and limitations as they arent designed to cover every 
eventuality. And in all insurance policies Ive seen, they exclude cover for damage caused 
gradually or by wear and tear.
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them to prove the claim. The estimate Mr C 
obtained by a builder didnt identify the cause of damage. The LA Allianz appointed noted 
that in relation to some previous work carried out to cover a mural, he found paint hadnt 
been removed and so he said this didnt provide good adhesion for the pebbledash 
rendering to stick to when it was applied.
He found evidence of cracking in situ on the gable end wall from online images taken in 
2008, 2012 and 2015. He reported that pebbledash rendering is prone to cracking due to its 
limited flexibility. Cracks that form over time can lead to water ingress behind the pebble 
dashing which can freeze and expand, which in turn can lead to the pebbledash covering 
coming away from the wall. 
The LA concluded that the large sections of the coating that came away from the wall was 
due to general weathering and deterioration over time. 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy says it excludes cover for; 
Wear, Tear and as undernoted:  Wear, tear, rust or corrosion
 Gradual deterioration or any gradually operating cause
 The cost of maintenance
 Mildew, rising damp, dry/wet rot, moth, vermin, atmospheric or climatic conditions
As the LA referred to the works carried out to cover the mural, Allianz explained that the 
policy also excludes cover: resulting from faulty workmanship, defective design, the use of 
defective materials. 
The builders estimate doesnt give details to support Mr Cs view that the cause of damage 
was accidental. And so I think it was reasonable for Allianz to rely on the LAs professional 
opinion with his reasons as to the cause of damage, which wasnt covered under the policy. 
So Im satisfied that its decision to reject the claim was fair and in line with the policy.
I understand Mr C was unhappy with having to ask a builder to attend his property before 
Allianz instructed a LA. The policy says that in the event of a claim, the consumer will be 
required to produce at their expense all documents to evidence their claim. So I dont think 
Allianzs request was unreasonable. 
Mr C told us that he didnt receive a letter dated 31 January 2020 from the LA which 
explained it was acting on behalf of Allianz. Mr C complained to Allianz that it wasnt clear 
that the LA was acting on its behalf and he was unhappy it had written to him confirming the 
decision to reject his claim, rather than his insurer.
From the LAs claim notes, I can see a copy of the letter along with a notification by text 
message to Mr C on the same day gave notice of its visit to inspect the property on behalf of 
Allianz. I dont know why Mr C didnt receive the letter, but Im satisfied that it was sent. The 
letter said it was following up on the telephone conversation to arrange an appointment by 
Allianz in relation to their claim. The letter provided details of the LA who was to attend and 
how the claim would be dealt with by them.
I think Allianz caused some delay in handling Mr Cs SAR. However, it provided an update to 
Mr C to say that this was due to the pandemic and changes to their way of working. I think Allianz acted promptly in instructing a LA and notifying Mr C of its decision to reject the 
claim. So while there was some delay, I think the explanation Allianz gave in its update was 
a reasonable one.
If Mr C is unhappy with the content of the documents he received from Allianz in relation to 
his SAR, he can contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) for help and guidance. 
Their website is:
https://ico.org.uk/
I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs C are that their claim was rejected by Allianz. But 
from what Ive seen, I think its decision was reached reasonably and in line with the policy. 
So Im not asking Allianz to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman