DRN-3177403
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Mortimer Clarke Solicitors Limited getting a county court 
judgement (CCJ) against him.
What happened
This complaint is about an unsecured loan which was taken out in 2002 and defaulted in 
2009.
In January 2010, Mortimer Clarke were hired by the debts owners to try to collect the 
money. They wrote to Mr H, warning him that if they didnt hear back theyd been instructed 
to get a CCJ.
In March 2010, the county court granted a CCJ against Mr H for this debt.
Mortimer Clarke spoke with Mr H a number of times about this in the years that followed.
In 2021, Mr H complained, saying he never received any correspondence before the CCJ.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained we could only look at what Mortimer Clarke did before the CCJ had been granted, 
and theyd written to Mr H at his last known address.
Mr H asked for his case to be reviewed afresh, so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that we are only allowed to consider complaints about regulated 
activities  such as collecting a debt under a credit agreement. But once a business gets a 
county court judgement, its no longer collecting a debt under a credit agreement  the 
agreement effectively merges into the judgement. Instead, the business can only attempt to 
recover the money by enforcing the judgement  and enforcing judgements is not a 
regulated activity. Further, were not generally able to make decisions about issues that have 
already been dealt with in court.
In this case, that means I cant consider whether Mortimer Clarke were right to get the CCJ 
or not, and I dont have the power to set aside the CCJ or adjust the balance. If Mr H would 
like to dispute the basis or balance of the CCJ, or apply to get it set aside, then he would 
normally need to speak to the County Court Business Centre.
Here, the CCJ was granted in March 2010. And Mortimer Clarke were only instructed to 
collect this debt in January 2010. So Im effectively limited to considering what Mortimer 
Clarke did between January and March 2010.
I can see that during that time, Mortimer Clarke wrote to Mr H twice, using the last known 
address they had for him. They explained clearly that theyd been instructed to start court 
proceedings if they didnt hear back from Mr H with a payment proposal. They also sent him 
the details for charities that could give him free, impartial help and advice about dealing with 
his debts. That seems reasonable.
Its arguable that Mortimer Clarke could have tried other methods of getting in touch with 
Mr H on top of writing to him. But I can see that, after the CCJ was granted, they did manage 
to get through to him on the phone a number of times. And according to the record of those 
calls, Mr H repeatedly declined to deal with the debt, and he refused to tell Mortimer Clarke 
what his correct address was, even after they told him about the court proceedings and the 
potential consequences. So even if theyd managed to get through to him before the CCJ, it 
doesnt seem likely it would have made a significant difference here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman