DRN-2811844
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) failed to process 
a payment leaving him owning more than he had anticipated when his agreement was 
ended.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I am satisfied that MBFS made an error in that it failed to process the cheque for £3,881,36 
paid in by Mr C in March 2018. However, it did reduce his monthly payments to £25 as it had 
agreed. This meant that there was £3,881.36 owing when Mr ended his agreement.
I have noted that in his annual statement issued in March 2019 the payment is shown which 
would have added weight to his belief that the payment has been successful. I asked Mr C 
for more detail on his personal finances and he has told me that he was running four current 
accounts at the time and had large sums of money leaving his accounts. He presumed that 
Mercedes had taken the money.
While I note he had four accounts on the go I am not persuaded that it is reasonable to 
expect him not to have taken note of a sum of almost £4,000 extra in his account for over a 
year. If the money had been sitting there for a shorter time, say a month I could see that it 
may have escaped his notice. 
It is clear that Mr C owed more than he thought, but it doesnt follow that MBFS should forgo 
this large sum in order to compensate Mr B for the error. However, I think he is owed some 
compensation for the loss of expectation and inconvenience. That has to be tempered by 
taking into account Mr B has a degree of responsibility for monitoring his account and 
ensuring a significant sum had been taken from his bank account. 
In the end Mr C has had to pay the money he owed and his loss is one of expectation. As 
such I consider £100 compensation to be fair.
Putting things right
 MBFS should pay Mr C compensation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to: 
Pay Mr C £100 for inconvenienced caused.
Remove any adverse information on his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman