DRN-2556502
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how Reich Insurance Brokers (Reich) handled a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had a water leak in his home. He contacted Reich to make an insurance claim on his 
behalf to his insurer. Reich contacted the insurer to open the claim.
A few days later Reich asked some underwriting questions on behalf of the insurer. Mr T 
responded to the questions and Reich passed the responses to the insurer. Mr T then 
emailed Reich to complain about how the claim was progressing and that hed had to 
answer the questions. 
Mr T contacted Reich again as he wanted his claim escalated with the insurer and for a leak 
detection company to visit. It had now been about two weeks since the claim had first been 
raised. As the insurer was unable to send a contractor, Reich arranged this for Mr T and 
contractors visited the same day.
Reich forwarded the costs for the contractor visit to Mr T. Mr T then contacted Reich and 
said he had resolved the leaks. Reich understood from this conversation that Mr T no longer 
wanted to pursue the claim. Mr T also said he wanted to raise a complaint about how Reich 
had handled the claim. 
When Reich responded to the complaint, it said there had been no undue delays and that it 
had dealt with issues in a prompt manner, including arranging a contractor to attend the 
same day that the insurer said it was unable to send anyone.
Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Reich 
had handled the claim in a reasonable way.
As Mr T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has complained about both Reich and the insurer. This decision will only consider the 
actions of Reich. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr T contacted Reich to make a claim. Reich responded to Mr T the same day to check 
some information. The next day Reich contacted the insurer to submit a claim form, some 
photos showing the damage and to request that a leak detection company be appointed to 
carry out trace and access and reinstatement.
A few days later, the insurer sent some questions to Reich to be passed to Mr T for 
response. Reich emailed Mr T the same day to pass on the questions. Mr T replied a few 
days later to say he was unhappy about how Reich and the insurer were handling the claim 
and that the questions should have been asked before he took out the policy. Mr T said 
Reich should phone him the following morning. Reich phoned Mr T, as requested.
Ive thought about the above and havent seen anything to suggest that there were any 
delays in Reich contacting the insurer. When Mr T raised concerns, Reich also seemed to 
address these promptly. Im aware that Mr T objected to being asked the questions by the 
insurer, but I think it was reasonable that Reich passed these on to Mr T.
However, Im aware that during the time outlined above no-one attended to trace the leak. 
So, Ive thought about that as well. Ive seen evidence that Reich asked the insurer to 
appoint someone to carry out leak detection, so I think Reich did what it was required to do 
at that stage. 
When Mr T raised his concerns about the lack of a visit, Reich contacted the insurer again to 
ask it to send someone. When the insurer said it couldnt send anyone, Reich appointed 
contractors, who visited the same day. So, I think Reichs actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My understanding is that Mr T then asked for his insurance claim to be closed. I havent 
been able to listen to the phone call in which this was discussed, but Ive read an email that 
Reich sent to Mr T following this. Reichs email confirmed to Mr T that he had said he no 
longer wanted to pursue the claim, but that it was obliged to update him further on the 
matter. Reich then explained that the contractor had found two leaks, what action the 
contractor had already taken and proposed next steps to deal with the leaks, along with the 
costs. This included describing the role of the insurer if it continued to progress the claim. 
Reich also told Mr T the cost for the contractor visits that had already taken place. So, based 
on what Ive seen, Reich closed the claim because Mr T asked it to do so, but it explained 
what was still outstanding and how this could be resolved. In the circumstances, I think that 
was reasonable.
Im aware the contractor then expected Mr T to pay the invoice for its visits and that this led 
to it threatening legal action. However, as the claim had been closed at Mr Ts request, this 
meant it was Mr Ts responsibility to pay the invoice, unless he wanted to re-open the claim. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to say this was down to the actions of Reich or that it was 
responsible for Mr T having to pay the invoice.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Reich to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman