DRN-4074368
Complaint
Mr P says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly delayed defaulting his 
overdraft meaning that it will impact him for longer.
Background
Mr P also complained about having been irresponsibly been provided with his overdraft and 
NatWest having failed to offer him support when he had difficulty repaying what he owed. 
Ive already separately explained why we cant look at Mr Ps complaint about NatWest 
having irresponsibly lent to him. And another ombudsman has already issued a final decision 
regarding whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in relation to Mr Ps overdraft 
charges and any associated financial difficulties.
So this decision is solely looking at NatWests decision to delay defaulting Mr Ps overdraft 
until 2020.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps concerns. He didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Mr P says that he wanted to include his overdraft debt in his debt management plan but was 
advised by NatWest not to do so because it would affect his ability to open another bank 
account. Mr P says that if he had included his overdraft debt in his plan he would owe less 
now and a default would have been recorded on his credit file in 2019, rather than in 2020.
Ive thought about what Mr P has said. And in order to determine what more likely than not 
happened, Ive looked at the record of the contact NatWest has had with Mr P over the 
years. Having done so, its clear to see that NatWest was in regular discussion with Mr P 
about his overdraft throughout the course of 2019. 
I accept that NatWest may have told Mr P that defaulting on his overdraft would have an 
impact on his ability to obtain another bank account whether with NatWest or elsewhere  
after all this was likely to be the case. 
However, I cant see anything to indicate that NatWest advised, or even told, Mr P that he 
shouldnt include his overdraft debt in his debt management plan. Of course, I accept that 
NatWests contact notes may not record everything that NatWest discussed with Mr P. But I 
consider it unlikely that NatWest would have advised Mr P what should and shouldnt have 
been included in his debt management plan. Indeed it is the company that was arranging         
Mr Ps debt management plan that is far more likely to have had any such discussions with 
him, as it was advising Mr P on his debt management plan. 
Furthermore, I also have to consider what Mr P has said here, in the context that as part of 
his previous complaint about his overdraft Mr P said that NatWest didnt offer him advice 
when he was experiencing financial difficulty. Given all of this, while I appreciate that Mr P 
may regret not including his overdraft debt in his debt management plan, I dont think that 
the available evidence supports NatWest directly advised him to take this course of action.
I do sympathise with what Mr P has told us. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file from 2020 and worried about that the impact of 
this will be longer lasting. And with the benefit of hindsight, I can understand why he believes 
that the default should have been applied earlier.  
But I wouldnt expect a bank to begin the process of beginning corrective action in relation to 
an overdraft as soon as a customer says theyre experiencing difficulty. Instead, when 
borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, I would expect a bank to exercise forbearance 
and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. 
Part of this would include waiting and seeing whether a borrowers difficulties are temporary 
rather than long term and given the borrower the chance to make up arrears. So I dont think 
that NatWest acted unfairly by failing to immediately default Mr Ps account. However, by 
December 2019, it was not only clear that Mr Ps situation hadnt improved it was also clear 
that any difficulties Mr P had repaying what he owed werent temporary or short-term.
And I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for NatWest to continue 
ignoring Mr Ps obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected 
NatWest to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. Indeed no further interest or charges have been added to       
Mr Ps account since 2020. 
In my view, asking NatWest to remove or backdate the default when Mr P was in 
discussions about bringing his account up to date, just because he didnt manage to do so, 
would arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Ps interests or that of any future lender. 
And most importantly it wouldnt accurately reflect what happened here. So Im satisfied it 
was fair and reasonable for NatWest to only begin the process of taking corrective action in 
relation to Mr Ps overdraft when it did in December 2019. 
As this is the case and Mr P didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or 
reach a suitable arrangement to repay what was owed within a reasonable period of time, 
Im satisfied that NatWest was entitled to withdraw Mr Ps overdraft and record a default in 
the way that it did in 2020. And I dont think that it would now be fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to now retrospectively backdate or change this information simply because Mr P 
may regret some of the decisions he took at that stage.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman