DRN-2602301
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (now trading as Fairmead
Insurance Limited) hasnt fully indemnified her landlords property insurance claim for
damage to her bathroom.
What happened
Mrs B took out a landlords property insurance policy with Fairmead in October 2018 for a
property she let out to tenants. In August 2019 she contacted Fairmead to report thered
been an escape of water in the bathroom at the property whichd meant the tiles around the
bath were coming loose and the kitchen ceiling below had been damaged.
Fairmead accepted the claim and asked Mrs B to send photos of the damage. Mrs B had an
emergency plumber attend to assess and stop the leak. He reported hed found one on the
flexible tap connectors to the bath whichd caused damage to the floor and bathroom.
Fairmead told Mrs B to get some quotes for repair which she did. She sent these, along with
the photos of the damage to Fairmead for review. Fairmead noted the extensive damage
thatd occurred and the plumbers view on what had caused it. And it noted the quotes to
repair the kitchen ceiling (£240) and bathroom (£1,865). In respect of the latter it noted a
replacement bath was included due to the current one having a crack near the cold-water 
tap and that the bathroom fitter had said on the quote: New bath was fitted due to a crack
coming from the cold tap hole which would have been caused by mis use of the tap.
Fairmead paid Mrs B £1,215 in settlement of her claim. This was made up of £240 for the
kitchen damage and £975 towards the bathroom damage (£1,865, less the policy excess of
£500, less the cost to replace the bath £390).
Mrs B complained to Fairmead that it hadnt paid to replace the bath. Fairmead investigated
Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said itd settled her complaint
in line with the policy terms and conditions. It said it was relying on one of the exclusion 
clauses in the policy to decline her claim for a replacement bath. It said that as the damage
to her bath had been caused by misuse of the tap before the insured event it was classed as
an existing defect caused by gradual deterioration or wear and tear which was excluded
from cover.
Unhappy with Fairmeads findings, Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator looked
into her complaint and recommended it was upheld. She thought there was no evidence that
the damage had been caused by wear and tear. She said damage caused by misuse
couldve occurred as a one-off event rather than gradually over time. She thought that there
seemed to be two separate areas of damage with two different causes. She noted Fairmead
said the damage to the bath occurred before the water leak so she said the claim for the
bath needed to be separate claim (with a separate policy excess deducted from it).
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had shown that the damage to the bath was caused
by an existing defect but that it was more likely caused by a one-off accidental event which
was covered by the policy terms. Finally, she recommended that Fairmead reimburse Mrs B
for the full cost of replacing her bath and add interest to that amount at this services usual
rate of 8% simple per year.
Mrs B accepted our investigators findings but Fairmead didnt. It said it accepted that should
the bath be covered, it would be under a new claim but said that it still didnt accept there
was a valid claim for damage to the bath. It said that in its final response letter to Mrs B it
had relied on a full exclusion for declining the claim and that exclusion also included not
covering damage that was the result of an operating error which, it said, misuse of the tap
arguably was. So, it said that even if damage by misuse didnt mean wear and tear it could
be damage thats the result of an operating error be that gradual or one-off. So, it said it
remained of the view that the damage to the bath wasnt covered.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision January 2021 
recommending that it was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Like our investigator I also think this complaint should be upheld but for different reasons.
Mrs Bs policy is an all-risks policy. It says under the Cover section:
We will indemnify You in respect of Damage to the Property Insured
Under the Exclusions heading it says:
We will not indemnify You in respect of
(1) Damage to the Property Insured caused by or consisting of
(a) an existing or hidden defect
(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear
(c) frost or change in the water table level
(d) faulty design or faulty materials used in its construction
(e) faulty workmanship, operating error or omission by You or any Employee [my
emphasis].
You is defined in the policy as being the policyholder. It is worth noting that the policy
definition of Resident applies to the tenant.
Theres an endorsement on the policy schedule which says: We will indemnify You in
respect of Accidental Damage to Buildings caused by the Resident under this Policy.
I have to decide if Fairmead has fairly declined to indemnify Mrs B for the damage to her
bath. I dont think it did. Mrs B is covered under the policy terms and conditions for damage
to the property and by way of a policy endorsement for accidental damage caused by her
tenants.
The only evidence available as to how the damage occurred is from Mrs Bs contractor who
says the bath was cracked due to misuse of the tap. Fairmead didnt send anyone out to
inspect the damage. Ive seen the photographs Mrs B provided but I cant clearly make out
any cracking around the cold-water tap. But the contractor says there was, Fairmead has
accepted what the contractor says and, without any evidence to the contrary, I cant
reasonably ignore his comment.
As the bath has been damaged by the tenants, Fairmead must indemnify Mrs B unless it can
successfully rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat her claim. In its final response
letter Fairmead quoted the exclusion cited above in full but told Mrs B it was declining her
claim because the damage to the bath was an existing defect caused gradually or by wear
and tear. I dont agree. There is no evidence of an existing defect with the bath. Nor is thereevidence the damage reported by the contractor happened gradually or as a result of wear
and tear. Misuse could happen suddenly, accidentally and as a one-off event.
Ive noted Fairmeads comments in response to our investigators opinion; namely that even
if the damage wasnt the result of an existing defect or wear and tear, misuse amounts to an
operating error so is also excluded by the same clause.
But I dont think the operating error exclusion can be applied either. I say that because
according to the policy exclusion Ive quoted above, the operating error that caused the
damage must be caused by Mrs B as policyholder (the You referred to at the end of clause
(1)(e)), or her employee. This was damage caused by the tenant; the Resident. Damage so
caused isnt excluded.
So, I dont think that Fairmead has fairly declined Mrs Bs claim for damage to her bath. Her
policy covers her for it and I dont think that Fairmead has been able to show that any of the
exclusions upon which it seeks to rely can be successfully applied to defeat Mrs Bs claim.
There is no evidence of an existing defect, or of the damage happening gradually or as the
result of wear and tear. And damage thats the result of an operating error needs to be
caused by the policyholder, or their employee, to be excluded whereas this damage was
caused by the tenant.
I do think the bath damage happened separately to the water damage so it needs to be
considered as a separate claim. So Fairmead should pay Mrs B £390 which is what she paid
to replace the bath, less any applicable policy excess (which I understand to be £100 for
accidental damage) and add interest* to this amount at this services usual rate of 8% simple
per year from the date Mrs B paid her contractors invoice to the date Fairmead settles my
award.
Mrs B replied to say she was happy with my provisional findings. Fairmead replied to say it 
had nothing to add. 
The complaint was passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any objection in response to my provisional decision my 
provisional findings and provisional decision remain unchanged and now form part of this, 
my final decision. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that this is 
a complaint that should be upheld.
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay Mrs B £390 which is what she paid to replace the bath, less any 
applicable policy excess (which I understand to be £100 for accidental damage) and add 
interest* to this amount at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs B 
paid her contractors invoice to the date Fairmead settles my award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to take 
the steps Ive sent out under the putting things right section above. * If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs B, it should tell her how much its taken off.
It should also give Mrs B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman