DRN-3433170
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complains Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) caused delays in their 
mortgage application resulting in them incurring unnecessary costs. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S says they applied for a mortgage via MAB in late May 2020, and made it 
clear they needed to complete the house purchase before the end of August 2020, to tie in 
with their childrens new school starting dates. Mr S and Mrs S says MAB failed to process 
their application until late June 2020 and despite them regularly asking for updates on the 
progress of their application MAB didnt keep them informed of any issues with their 
mortgage application. Mr S and Mrs S says it wasnt until mid-August 2020 they were then 
informed by MAB they needed to apply elsewhere as their mortgage application hadnt been 
approved, leaving them little time to complete the new mortgage requirements in time for 
their proposed move on 20 August 2020. 
As a result of this Mr S and Mrs S incurred considerable costs between the time they moved 
to their new location and when the new mortgage was eventually drawn, in mid- September 
2020, including storage costs and accommodation rental. 
Mr S and Mrs S want MAB to reimburse them for these additional costs. 
MAB says while it accepts it made an initial mistake on the mortgage application it sent to 
the lender, it had corrected this immediately and this wouldnt be the reason or the delays Mr 
S and Mrs S experienced. MAB says the lender continually requested further information, 
some of which it had already provided and arent responsible for the extra costs Mr S and 
Mrs S have incurred here. MAB says once the details of the letting of Mr Ss and Mrs Ss 
existing home was made known, a new mortgage application was submitted and approved 
by a new lender within a matter of weeks. 
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with MABs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Ss and Mrs Ss 
complaint. The investigator says there was sufficient evidence to suggest MAB had made 
mistakes when submitting the mortgage application to the lender and failed to keep Mr S and 
Mrs S informed the application had been declined from the very beginning. The investigator 
felt that if that had been known earlier  Mr S and Mrs S could have taken actions to make 
alternative arrangements. The investigator says as a result of these mistakes by MAB, it 
resulted in unnecessary costs being incurred by Mr S and Mrs S and these should be 
reimbursed. 
The investigator instructed MAB to refund the following costs:
 The cost of storage for their belongings for their new property: £976.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of storage for their belongings for their previous home: £144.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of transporting the contents of Mrs Ss home office: £996.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of accommodation, with the cost of the mortgage for two weeks deducted: 
£2,260.29 plus 8% simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 Reimburse the cost of the broker fee of £495 to address the trouble and upset this 
matter caused Mr S and Mrs S .
While Mr S and Mrs S accepted the investigators view MAB didnt and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been worrying and upsetting for Mr S and Mrs S to learn their 
mortgage application had been declined with little time available to arrange new finance in 
time for their proposed move date. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider whether MAB were responsible for creating 
avoidable delays during the mortgage application process. 
Mr Ss and Mrs Ss complaint centres around the fact MAB didnt deal with their mortgage 
application promptly enough or keep them informed of any issues with the application until 
mid-August 2020, by which time they had little time to find alternative lenders to meet their 
moving deadline of 20 August 2020. Mr S and Mrs S have provided details of the extra costs 
theyve incurred by having to move into rented accommodation and storage of their 
possessions, and they feel these costs should be reimbursed by MAB. 
Its worth saying here MAB were made aware early on in the mortgage application process 
that Mr S and Mrs S had a deadline they needed to meet, to coincide with their childrens 
schooling. While its reasonable to say MAB probably couldnt guarantee a mortgage would 
be agreed in the timescale Mr S and Mrs S wanted, what I would expect is, MAB to make 
sure if that date was ever in doubt or there were any potential issues with the mortgage 
application, it would keep Mr S and Mrs S informed of that, given how important that date 
was to them. But I cant see that happened here. 
I say this as the mortgage application was put forward to the lender by MAB on 25 June 
2020, and from the information I have seen, even at that early stage the lender had indicated 
the mortgage wasnt affordable. While MAB has suggested that wasnt its understanding and 
that the application needed to be rekeyed, thats not consistent with what the lender has told 
them and crucially MAB havent been able to provide any evidence to this service to show 
that wasnt the case. Its also worth saying that after the application was rekeyed and further 
information provided by MAB, the lender still declined the application on the same basis  
that it deemed the application unaffordable, which on balance suggests that was the case 
from the very beginning. 
I do accept mortgage applications can of course get declined for various reasons and that is understandable. But where I have an issue here is, despite this service asking MAB to 
provide evidence to show it kept Mr S and Mrs S regularly informed of this or any other 
issues surrounding the application, it was unable to do so.
MAB have explained to this service that On the 20th July the adviser was asked to call the 
lender regarding the keying of the properties. At the time the adviser believed that it was only 
deemed unaffordable and once the properties were reverse on the application it would fit. 
Therefore, the adviser did not want to worry the client as the documents would be transfers 
to the new app. 
This seems to me to underline the fact the adviser chose not to keep Mr S and Mrs S 
informed of the potential issue and while I can understand he may not have wanted to worry 
the clients, I am of the view this in fact proved unhelpful and Mr S and Mrs S werent 
sufficiently kept informed of the progress or potential issues with their mortgage application. 
Its also fair to say that if MAB had done so, Mr S and Mrs S in all probability, would have 
looked to consider alternative lenders to secure the mortgage in time for the completion date 
they needed. I say this because within a matter of weeks of being told the mortgage 
application had been declined in mid -August 2020, a new mortgage was agreed by a new 
mortgage provider.  
With that in mind I am satisfied MAB could have done more to have kept Mr S and Mrs S 
informed of the issues surrounding the application and because it didnt, this contributed to 
unnecessary delays in getting a mortgage agreed in time. As a result of this its reasonable 
to say Mr S and Mrs S were committed to moving to their new destination, which MAB were 
made aware of at the outset and throughout their dealings with Mr S and Mrs S, and so its 
only fair that any extra costs incurred by them by not being able to complete the mortgage 
on time, should be covered by MAB here. 
With that in mind and while MAB will be disappointed with my decision, I support the 
investigators view it should now reimburse Mr S and Mrs S with costs outlined in her view. 
Putting things right
I instruct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to refund the following costs: 
 The cost of storage for their belongings in their new property: £976.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of storage for their belongings in their previous home: £144.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of transporting the contents of Mrs Ss home office: £996.00, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 The cost of accommodation, with the cost of the mortgage for two weeks deducted: 
£2,260.29 plus 8% simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment.
 Reimburse the cost of the broker fee of £495 to address the trouble and upset this 
matter caused Mr S and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.I instruct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to refund the following costs: 
The cost of storage for their belongings in their new property: £976.00, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment. 
The cost of storage for their belongings in their previous home: £144.00, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment. 
The cost of transporting the contents of Mrs Ss home office: £996.00, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment. 
The cost of accommodation, with the cost of the mortgage for two weeks deducted: 
£2,260.29 plus 8% simple interest from the date it was paid until MAB make this payment. 
Reimburse the cost of the broker fee of £495 to address the trouble and upset this matter 
caused Mr S and Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman