DRN-3729583
The complaint
Miss T complains that two cars she acquired from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) under two separate finance agreements were misrepresented to her.
What happened
Miss T entered into two successive hire purchase agreements with VWFS for two different 
cars.
Subsequently Miss T found out some of the cars supplied by VWFS to other consumers had 
software installed in them that had not been disclosed to those consumers in advance. Miss 
T considers that both of the cars she acquired had this software installed too. On this basis 
Miss T considers that the cars she acquired were misrepresented to her. Specifically Miss T 
suggests that some of the information she was given about the cars impact on the 
environment and performance was incorrect. Further, she also considers that she has lost 
out financially as a result of what she claims was misrepresentation.
VWFS accepts that the software was installed in one of the cars but not the other. According 
to VWFS the software only impacted the Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emissions of the impacted 
cars, during test conditions. It appears it does accept that if misrepresentations had been 
made to her prior to the contract by the credit broker by it then it would be responsible. But in 
this instance it rejects the suggestion that any misrepresentations were made to her in 
relation to this software. In particular, as far as it was aware, Miss T had never been told 
anything about NOx emissions before she went ahead with the contracts. And it did not 
agree that the software in the car meant that anything that Miss T H might have been told 
about the cars environmental credentials or performance was incorrect. It follows it also 
didnt accept that Miss M had made losses due to misrepresentations. On that basis it 
rejected Miss Ts complaint.
Dissatisfied, Miss T complained to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ts complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
upholding her complaint.
VWFS accepted this recommendation. Miss T did not. In summary, she repeated her 
previous stance. In particular she told us that it had been confirmed to her that both of the 
cars had the software installed. Miss T mentioned payments that have been made to 
consumers due to court action they took in relation to the software in cars supplied to them 
by VWFS. Miss T indicated that prior to each contract there has been verbal and written 
misrepresentation. Miss T asked why VWFS has made payments to consumers if there has 
been no wrongdoing on its part in relation to this software.
Miss T asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T and VWFS disagree about what car was impacted by the software, what she was told 
about prior to the contract, the impact of the software and what loss Miss T might have made 
because of something VWFS did wrong. Where there is a dispute about what happened, (as 
is the case in part here) I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance agreements, that is the hire purchase agreements, in this case are regulated
consumer credit agreements. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating to 
them. VWFS as well as being the provider of the finance is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and it is responsible, in certain circumstances, for a complaint 
about misrepresentation.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced a party to enter into a contract 
to their detriment. To uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that a relevant that is 
a material misrepresentation was made to Miss T by the credit broker or by VWFS. If I made 
such a finding, I think, it would be fair and reasonable to hold VWFS responsible for it. Thats 
why Ive taken a close look at what most likely happened before Miss T and VWFS made 
their contracts.
Before I got into the specifics of the pre contract process though I first need to think about 
which car most likely had the software installed that Miss T complains about. Miss T 
suggests that she has confirmation that both cars were impacted by the software. But whilst 
she has told us that professional sources have given her advice that both cars were 
impacted she has not sent us this advice. Neither has she explained why they might be 
better informed about this than VWFS. I cant see how it would benefit VWFS to provide 
inaccurate information about this, quite the reverse. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that 
VWFS has provided correct information about which of the cars was impacted by the 
software.
The presence of the software in the impacted cars has received a lot of publicity in recent 
years. However, prior to this, the issue of NOx emissions in this context was not so well-
publicised. VWFS say nothing was mentioned about NOx emissions in the marketing 
literature that was available for customers at the time. Ive not seen anything that contradicts 
this. Miss T has told us she did discuss NOx emissions with the dealership because the V5 
information was presented to her as part of the sales pitch. The V5 is a document that 
deals, amongst other things, with who is the register keeper of a vehicle. It is typically discussed after a contract is made not before. I dont find it persuasive that in these 
circumstances this information was part of the sales pitch to Miss T. Moreover, she has not 
explained why she and the credit broker talked about the then relatively obscure issue of 
NOx emissions before she entered into the contract.  For all of these reasons I find it unlikely 
that NOx emissions were ever discussed with her at the time she was looking to go ahead 
with the agreement for the car.
Further, Miss T appears to be saying that what she was told about the cars environmental
credentials and performance was incorrect because of the existence of the software in the
car. VWFSs stance is that the software only impacts on NOx emissions in test conditions.
Ive not seen anything to say this is incorrect. In particular, Miss T indicates she was 
concerned about the impact of a diesel engine on the environment. And she suggests she 
talked this over with the car dealership who were also the credit brokers before going ahead. 
I dont doubt she did have such conversations. That said, when people talk about how a car 
affects the environment they are usually talking about carbon dioxide emissions. So even if 
environmental issues are something Miss T did discuss prior to contracting with VWFS I 
think what she had in mind was, on balance, carbon dioxide emissions. Miss T suggests that 
the software would have impacted carbon dioxide emissions but aside from asserting this 
she has provided no further information to back this up.  On balance I am not satisfied that 
the software has any impact on carbon dioxide emissions. It follows that I think it is unlikely 
that anything she was told about carbon dioxide emissions is incorrect due to the fact that 
the car has this software installed in it.
Miss T has also mentioned discussions she had prior to contracting with the car dealership 
/credit broker about the performance of the car. She suggests what she was told about this 
was incorrect due to the presence of the software. But, it seems that the software only 
comes into play in test conditions, as I have already mentioned. The information that Miss T 
would most likely have seen about the performance of the car would have related to real 
world driving conditions. It follows I have not got enough to say it is likely that the 
performance of the car in normal driving conditions is different from anything Miss T was told 
about this.
For all of these reasons, I cant fairly and reasonably agree that it is likely that Miss T was
given incorrect information about the environmental impact or performance the car.
Miss T tells us that she made losses due to relying on incorrect information given to her by 
the credit broker of VWFS prior to the contract. However this point falls away as I dont find 
that the car was misrepresented to Miss T.
Miss T talks about court action and the settlements that have been made in relation to this 
software. She suggests VWFS has been found liable by the courts. Miss T has not cited 
those court actions. It is not clear to me if it is VWFS who is involved or whether it is the 
manufacturer who is a different company. The fact that a third party might have been 
involved in these settlements would not mean that VWFS had taken responsibility too. In any 
event, I dont have to explain the reasoning for any such settlements. Rather it is for Miss T 
to show these settlements are relevant to her complaint and show how they support her 
version of events in the very particular individual circumstances of her complaint. She has 
not done that. My role as an ombudsman is to consider the individual complaint and decide 
whether something has gone wrong. But a court may take a different view of the situation. 
Im not satisfied therefore based on the information of I have available to me that the 
existence of these court proceedings and the settlements, mean I ought fairly and 
reasonably to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman