DRN-3954266
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way ReAssure Limited managed her personal pension.
What happened
Ms B has a personal pension with ReAssure, from which she had been taking an income of 
£1,000 on a quarterly basis. Ms B also occasionally requested extra lump sum payments 
from the pension. Ms B experienced some delays in October and November 2020 in relation 
to her regular income payment and an extra lump sum payment. ReAssure paid Ms B £200 
to compensate her for this.
In January 2021, Ms B made a further request to withdraw £6,500 from her pension. 
However, the form she had completed to request the withdrawal wasnt the right one. The 
form Ms B completed was used for requests to take all of the pension as a lump sum. So, 
instead of ReAssure paying Ms B £6,500, it paid her the full value of her remaining pension. 
Ms B received £13,191.36 (after tax) on 8 February 2021.
In April 2021 Ms B complained as she hadnt received the income payment due that month. 
ReAssure told Ms B this was because her policy had been closed in February 2021 as the 
full pension value had been paid to her and no further entitlement remained. Ms B 
complained that she hadnt requested this and thought it was a tax rebate. She said 
ReAssure had caused her to pay increased tax at a higher rate than she would have 
otherwise paid.
ReAssure accepted that it had paid out the full pension in error and offered her £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. But Ms B told us when she went to cash this cheque it 
had been cancelled.
Ms B remained unhappy so she referred her complaint to our Service. Our Investigator noted 
that although Ms B had used the full pension payment form, shed written that she wanted to 
withdraw £6,500. He said shed also ticked a box to say she wanted to access her pension 
under the small lump sum rules, and she didnt qualify for this as her policy was worth more 
than £10,000. For these reasons, the Investigator thought ReAssure shouldve clarified the 
withdrawal request with Ms B and thought the issue couldve been rectified there and then. 
He thought ReAssure should compensate Ms B for the additional tax shed paid and an extra 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ms B didnt accept the outcome as she thought ReAssure had caused her significant 
distress and inconvenience which had had a serious impact on her health. As no agreement 
could be reached the matter was referred to me to make a final decision.
While I agreed with the Investigators suggested method of compensating Ms B for the extra 
tax shed paid, I thought that ReAssure should pay Ms B a higher amount of compensation 
for the impact of the issues shed experienced. ReAssure considered this and offered to pay 
Ms B an extra £350, in addition to the £200 offered to her in June 2021, meaning a total 
compensation payment of £550 for the issues Ive considered in this complaint. It would also 
ensure Ms B hasnt paid more tax that she otherwise would have if ReAssure had processed 
her withdrawal request correctly and she had maintained her quarterly income payments.
The Investigator explained to Ms B that I considered the offer ReAssure had made to be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. However, Ms B said the offer was insulting. She said 
she now had no pension to live on in her older years. So, the complaint was passed back to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. However, I think the compensation 
ReAssure has agreed to pay to resolve this matter is fair, so I wont be asking it to pay more 
than the £550 compensation (including the £200 offered but not paid in June 2021) and the 
refund of any increased tax Ms B paid as a result of its error. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that ReAssure made a mistake here  it fully encashed Ms Bs pension in 
February 2021, when it ought to have realised she wanted to withdraw £6,500 instead. This 
meant Ms B likely paid a higher rate of tax than she otherwise would have had the 
withdrawal been processed correctly using the right tax code.
Ms B says that she hasnt received any rebate, despite the extra tax having been paid in 
2021. It seems to me that Ms B ought to have received a tax rebate by now, based on what 
I know about her annual income and given the time thats passed. But in order to ensure that 
Ms B hasnt been disadvantaged financially due to ReAssures mistake, I agree that it should 
liaise with Ms B and HMRC to determine the correct amount of tax Ms B ought to have paid 
had she withdrawn £6,500 in February 2021 and maintained her regular quarterly payments 
to date. If Ms B has in fact paid more tax than she should have during this time, ReAssure 
will need to refund this to her with interest.
The issue that remains in dispute is the compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused Ms B. Ms B says that the impact on her health has been significant, and 
she attributes this all to ReAssures mistake. She also says that shes been left with no 
pension to live on and as such, she should receive a significant sum to invest to start again.
I dont doubt Ms Bs strength of feeling here and I accept that it has caused her significant 
worry and inconvenience. It also appears this has contributed to her health problems. So, 
I recognise the impact it has had on her. However, Im mindful that Ms B did in fact receive 
over £13,000 from ReAssure. This was more than shed asked for so she couldve 
reinvested the extra amount if it wasnt needed. So, I dont think its fair to say Ms B lost her 
pension, rather she paid more tax on her pension than she otherwise would have had she 
continued to withdraw it at the same rate. Ms B says she thought this was a tax rebate, but 
unless Ms B was expecting a tax rebate of such significant proportions I think she wouldve 
understood it most likely related to her pension. I say this as shed requested a significant 
lump sum from ReAssure in January 2021 and she hadnt complained that she hadnt 
received this sum. And as Ive set out above, ReAssure will ensure Ms B hasnt been 
financially disadvantaged by this.
Having carefully considered the impact of the mistake on Ms B, I think a total amount of 
£550 is fair compensation here. As Ive said, this isnt to compensate Ms B for the loss of her 
pension, it is to reflect the worry and inconvenience the overpayment caused Ms B. And 
although ReAssure hadnt put the matter right by the time Ms B referred her complaint to our 
Service, it quickly recognised that it had made a mistake. It immediately offered Ms B 
compensation and said it was looking into things further. So, I think Ms B ought to have been reassured by that.
Ultimately Ms B referred her complaint to our Service, and while I appreciate the matter has 
been ongoing for some time, I wouldnt have expected ReAssure to do anything more to put 
the matter right until the complaint with our Service had been resolved. So, overall, I think 
compensation of £550 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the issues Ms B 
experienced. 
Putting things right
ReAssure should liaise with HMRC to establish how much tax Ms B wouldve paid between 
February 2021 and now if it had correctly processed the £6,500 withdrawal request in 
February 2021 and the £1,000 quarterly income payments had been maintained to date.
ReAssure should also liaise with Ms B and HMRC to determine how much tax Ms B actually 
paid, including any rebate she may have received relating to the relevant tax year. 
The difference between the tax Ms B shouldve paid and the tax she actually paid represents 
the excess income tax, which should be paid to Ms B in compensation. Interest should be 
added at a rate of 8% simple from the date the additional tax was paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Ms B has paid the correct amount of tax overall because she has received a tax rebate, 
ReAssure should pay interest as above from the date the extra tax was paid to the date it 
was refunded to Ms B by way of a rebate.
ReAssure should make the calculation available to Ms B to check. 
ReAssure should also pay Ms B total compensation of £550 (including the £200 it awarded 
in June 2021 and the £350 I have awarded) in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by ReAssures mistake.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and I require ReAssure Limited to compensate her in the way 
I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman