DRN-2818743
The complaint
Ms A has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a 
claim under a warranty.
Ms A is represented in this case but, for ease, Ive only referred to Ms A, as she is the 
policyholder.
What happened
Ms A had a warranty for her domestic appliances, including her fridge. Ms As fridge started 
to leak, so she contacted D&G to arrange for an engineer to visit. The fridge was written-off, 
so D&G agreed to replace the fridge under the terms of the policy. However, Ms A had to 
contact D&G several times because of delays in progressing the claim and issues with 
providing a suitable replacement fridge.
Ms A complained to D&G about the issues with her claim. When D&G replied it accepted 
there had been issues with the claim handling and sourcing a suitable fridge. It offered Ms A 
£100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill, provided a fridge that cost £169 more than the 
one it replaced, refunded £25 that Ms A had originally paid to upgrade the fridge and waived 
the charges for removing the old fridge and for delivery and installation.
When Ms A complained to this service, our investigator said D&G didnt need to do anything 
further. He said the compensation offered, including the upgrade to the fridge and waiving 
the fees appropriately dealt with the issues.
As Ms A didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require D&G to do anything further. I will explain why.
D&G accepted there were a number of issues with how it dealt with Ms As claim and delays 
in replacing the fridge. This included D&Gs engineer providing his report to Ms A, rather 
than D&G, which meant D&G wasnt aware the fridge had been written-off until Ms A 
followed up with D&G. There were also issues with D&G sourcing a suitable fridge, which 
included the upgraded fridge that Ms A chose being out of stock at the supplier, and issues 
with the size of the fridge supplied as it was an integrated fridge that needed to fit a 
particular space.
As part of this, Im aware of Ms As personal circumstances that mean she uses a 
wheelchair and requires 24-hour care. She needed a working fridge, including for her 
medication, and her carers also had to mop the floor because of water leaking from the 
broken fridge. So, I can understand that issues with getting a new fridge would have had a 
particular impact on Ms A.
Looking at how D&G addressed the issues, it offered £100 compensation, supplied a fridge 
that cost £169 more than the one it was replacing and waived fees that it would normally 
charge. So, in my view, D&G took a number of steps when there were problems with 
replacing the fridge, including going beyond the terms and conditions of the policy to resolve 
the issues. Through a combination of the compensation, providing a more expensive fridge 
and waiving the fees this came to a total of about £400, which I think appropriately 
acknowledged what happened. 
Im aware that Ms A was concerned the water leaking from the fridge could have damaged 
the floor, but I havent seen any evidence of damage. Im also aware that Ms A was 
concerned about the impact on her carers, but I can only consider compensation for Ms A 
because she is the consumer. So, having thought about this carefully, I think what D&G did 
in response to the issues was reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
dont need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman