DRN-3044200
The complaint
 Miss F and Mr S complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy with the service received from 
the legal helpline. 
Where I refer to Fairmead Insurance Limited, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
Whilst Miss F is a joint policyholder, this is Mr S claim, so Ill mostly refer to him for ease of 
reading. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr S made a claim under his legal expenses policy to cover the costs of pursuing 
an employment dispute. Fairmead accepted the claim and instructed one of its panel 
solicitors. 
The solicitors were of the opinion that Mr S claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of being 
successful, which is a requirement for cover under the legal expenses policy. So the claim 
was subsequently declined. 
Almost a year later, in 2020, Fairmead was notified of a complaint as Mr S wasnt happy that 
he hadnt been provided with the support he felt he was entitled to under his policy. It 
appears there was a slight delay in logging the complaint, which Fairmead has paid £100 
compensation for. 
Fairmead was satisfied the claim had been correctly declined. It said that if Mr S disagreed, 
he should obtain a barristers opinion. And if the advice was supportive, Fairmead would 
reimburse the cost of obtaining the opinion and would reinstate cover. It also told Mr S that 
he was still entitled to legal advice from the helpline should he need it. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. Since 
doing so, hes told us that hes tried to use the legal helpline for advice as hes pursuing his 
claim as a litigant in person, but theyve failed to return his calls on at least three occasions. 
This has caused him a detriment as hes had to take action on his claim without the benefit 
of legal advice.
Our investigator was of the view that Fairmead had declined Mr S claim fairly as it had relied 
on legal advice. But she thought Mr S had received poor service from the legal helpline. On 
speaking with Fairmead, she obtained a compensation offer of £100  which she considered 
to be fair.
She was also of the view that it was unfair for Fairmead to insist on Mr S obtaining a 
barristers opinion to challenge the rejection of his claim. She said there was nothing in the 
policy terms to suggest that a legal challenge had to be in the form of a barristers opinion, 
and that a solicitors opinion wouldve been sufficient here. Fairmead agreed and has offered 
£50 compensation  which our investigator also thought was fair.
Mr S didnt agree. Hes told us that his claim went on to settle, which indicates that it did 
enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Hes asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so its been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Prospects of success 
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy say cover for legal expenses will be provided as 
long as  [your] claim has prospects of success. The policy defines prospects of success 
as being more likely than not that [you] will recover damages. In percentage terms, this 
means the claim must have a 51% or greater chance of being successful.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless it was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes.
In Mr S case, Fairmead obtained the advice of its panel solicitors. And they were of the 
opinion, that based on the information available, the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects. 
Having considered the legal assessment, Im satisfied its properly written and well-
reasoned. And its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer. So I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Fairmead shouldnt have relied on it.
I appreciate that Mr S went on to settle his claim. But this doesnt mean that it enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success at the time it was assessed by the panel solicitors. Many 
claims settle prior to hearing and this can be for a number of reasons; for example to avoid 
the legal costs of a full trial. But even if Mr S had won in court, its important to note that the 
threshold for prospects is 51%, so even if a claim doesnt meet the policy requirement there 
is potentially still 49% chance of it going on to succeed. 
From the information available, Im satisfied that Fairmead declined the claim in accordance 
with the policy terms and conditions. And that it was fair to do so. 
Legal challenge
In 2020, Fairmead told Mr S that he could challenge the rejection of his claim by obtaining a 
legal assessment from a barrister. Mr S got a quote for this which came to £3,000 inclusive 
of VAT for 10 hours work. 
I agree with our investigator that it was unfair to restrict Mr S legal challenge to a barristers 
opinion. Theres nothing in the policys terms and conditions to say that it must be a barrister. 
So he was entitled to obtain his legal challenge from a solicitor, provided that they were 
suitably qualified in the relevant area of law.Whilst Fairmead accepts this, it doesnt think Mr S has been disadvantaged here. It says the 
county court rates for solicitors in his area is £201. So for 10 hours work, he wouldve paid 
£2412 including VAT. As Mr S wasnt willing to pay £3,000 for a barristers opinion, it doesnt 
think he wouldve paid for a solicitors opinion either given that it was only £588 less. Its 
offered £50 for the incorrect information. 
From the information I have, its not clear why Mr S didnt proceed with obtaining the 
barristers opinion after a quote was provided. He hasnt told us that this was due to the cost 
or that it was unaffordable to him. Nor has he told us that he wouldve obtained a legal 
challenge had he known it could be from a solicitor. 
I can only look to award compensation based on any impact made to Mr S. And Im not 
aware of any detriment caused by the misinformation related to the legal challenge. But I 
acknowledge that Mr S has experienced an element of stress following the discovery that he 
had more options available to him than he otherwise thought. So I think its fair for Fairmead 
to pay him the £50 compensation its offered. 
Helplines service issues
Its not in dispute that the legal helpline failed to call Mr S on at least three occasions where 
a call back had been agreed. So I dont need to make a finding on whether something went 
wrong here  it did. What I need to decide is whether the £100 compensation offered fairly 
puts things right.
Mr S says that the amount offered doesnt fairly reflect the impact this had on him. Hes 
asked for £200 compensation for the missed calls, due to the time he wasted waiting to be 
contacted. In addition, he wants a further £2,000 compensation for the legal advice he didnt 
receive and the difficulty he experienced in pursuing his claim without it. 
Fairmead says that Mr S requested call backs at specific times with narrow time slots, which 
made it difficult to find available advisors. It says the times Mr S requested were within his 
work hours, and where a call was made slightly later than agreed he said he was unavailable 
due to work commitments. It says that as the helpline is available 24/7, Mr S couldve asked 
for calls outside of his work hours so that he couldve been more flexible. 
Although it does acknowledge that some calls werent made due to internal errors, Fairmead 
also argues that the purpose of the legal helpline is to give generic legal advice and isnt an 
alternative to instructing a solicitor. For that reason, it doesnt think Mr S shouldve been 
relying on the helpline to conduct his claim. 
Having considered both sides, Im satisfied that £100 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. I do believe Mr S wouldve been inconvenienced by not receiving a call at the 
agreed time. This wouldve been frustrating, especially added to the stress he no doubt 
wouldve already been experiencing due to his ongoing legal action. So there is an impact 
here which hes entitled to be compensated for. 
That said, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S claim suffered a detriment as a 
result of not receiving legal advice at that time. And Im mindful that any advice he wouldve 
received, wouldve been generic. So Im not persuaded that these failed call backs are 
sufficient enough to warrant any further compensation award. 
My final decisionFairmead Insurance Limited has offered to pay £150 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused by for the failings in its customer service. This is in addition to the 
£100 compensation its already paid. I think this is fair, for the reasons Ive explained. 
As such, my final decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Miss F and Mr S 
compensation of £150.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman