DRN-1445228
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs L in 2001 in 
connection with a joint mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr and Mrs L if they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-    If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ls needs?
-    Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs L the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs L are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs L say they don't remember PPI being discussed when they took out their 
mortgage, and they wouldn't have bought it if it had been offered by Halifax. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs L and 
Halifax when the PPI was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.But I can see that Mr and Mrs L's mortgage application included a separate section about 
PPI. Mr and Mrs L both signed that section to show they wanted the cover. And it seems 
there were other forms of insurance available to Mr and Mrs L on the mortgage application 
form - some of which they bought and some they didn't.
On balance I think it's unlikely Mr and Mrs L would've signed to take the cover if there hadn't 
been some sort of discussion about the PPI with Halifax first.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs L have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs L to take out the PPI and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs L say they were entitled to generous sick pay from their employers if 
they couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to their employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think 
Mr and Mrs L would have had some use for the policies despite their existing 
arrangements.  
Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs L before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs L would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman