DRN-2860407
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) have held him responsible for two 
credit card transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Mr Ms partner received two packages, a week apart from each other, from an online 
business Ill refer to as C. Neither of the packages were expected and Mr Ms partner 
contacted C to tell them about the deliveries. She was told that C would investigate the 
matter and in the meantime she could keep or dispose of the items as she wished.
A short time later, Mr M received his credit card statement from Vanquis that contained two 
charges he didnt recognise from C. These corresponded with the two deliveries that had 
been received earlier. Mr M said a review had been posted to Cs website for one of the 
purchases, which was linked to his account with C, which he didnt write.
Mr M told Vanquis about the charges and explained that neither he or his partner had 
ordered anything from C and asked for the charges to be removed from his account. 
Vanquis investigated the claim and contacted C to dispute the transactions.
C produced evidence that the order had been made in Mr Ms partners name and had used 
Mr Ms credit card to make both transactions, the evidence also showed it was delivered to 
the home address of the cardholder  Mr M and had used Mr Ms email address. 
Vanquis accepted the evidence from C and told Mr M theyd be adding both payments back 
onto the account. Mr M was unhappy with how Vanquis had dealt with the matter and 
brought his complaint to our service for an independent review.
Cs evidence included Internet Protocol address data (IP) which corresponds to a physical 
location. Both transactions were shown to be made from areas of the UK that werent near to 
Mr Ms home.
Mr M confirmed that he couldnt identify a return address to send the items back and get a 
refund and he still has both items. He said that C werent very helpful when he tried to sort 
the matter out. Mr M said he hadnt received any emails from C about the order or delivery 
arrangements.
Mr M told the investigator that both himself and his partner had accounts with C and that he 
didnt use his Vanquis card for payments to C. He also said that he kept his card in his 
wallet, which was usually in a drawer at home, but no one else in the household would use it 
without his permission. Mr M also said that his account with C was protected with a 
password and that he didnt save his credit card details on his account with C.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that it was appropriate for 
Vanquis to hold Mr M responsible for the transactions. 
Mr M disagreed with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. Mr 
M was particularly concerned that his partner was being accused of lying.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Vanquis can hold Mr M liable for 
the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them. 
Authorisation is in two parts  authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
described as the technical evidence about the transaction. In this case both payments used 
Mr Ms card details and were recorded as card not present payments. That means the 
parties werent present when the transactions were carried out. Because Vanquis have 
shown that the correct card details and billing address were used to make both transactions 
Im satisfied they were authenticated.
Consent is the second stage of authorisation and is the means by which Mr M and Vanquis 
agreed to recognise a legitimate payment instruction from the credit card when the account 
was opened. Vanquiss terms state:
A purchase transaction may be authorised by using the card or security details or both (for 
example, inserting the card into a card reader and entering the PIN, or by using the card 
details to make a purchase online or by telephone). 
Vanquis showed the correct card details were used to make the transactions and the 
address data matched the billing information. C have provided evidence that both orders 
used Mr Ms card details/billing address and the same email address they have recorded for 
his account. So, Im satisfied both authentication and consent have been demonstrated.
But, Mr M has denied he was responsible for the payments here and so I need to consider if 
it was more than likely, or not, that Mr M authorised or allowed his card to be used.
The information supplied by Vanquis showed several purchases from Mr Ms credit card to C 
in 2019. Mr M had initially said that he had never used his card, but when told about the 
records from Vanquis, Mr M told us that he couldnt remember these earlier purchases but 
was certain that any other transactions were authorised by him. Its understandable that Mr 
M forgot these transactions as they were a few years old, but they do show the Vanquis card 
had been used to purchase items from C before.
Mr M has explained that he didnt have his credit card details linked to his account with C, so 
whoever made these payments would have needed access to the card. Ive thought about 
the possibility of an unknown third party using the card details. These transactions were 
made in such a way that an unknown third party wouldnt likely be able to easily get access 
to the goods that were purchased, because they were delivered to Mr Ms home. Also, if an 
unknown third party had the card details  I would have expected to see other transactions 
made, or attempted to maximise the use of the card before the misuse was reported to 
Vanquis. In this case the two transactions were made a week apart without any other reported 
disputed transactions. Mr M stated only he had access to his account with C and it was 
password protected. 
So, in order for someone to carry out these transactions they would need:
 access to the home,
 the password to the account with C, and
access to the credit card.
Mr M has told us that no one else had access to his home, password or card, other than 
those people already at home. In these circumstances, I cant see how someone unknown to 
Mr M was able to access his home, take his credit card and then use it on his account with C 
to make purchases that were delivered to his address. I realise thatll be a difficult message 
for Mr M  but its what the evidence leads me to conclude when looking at all the 
circumstances objectively here.
In considering all the evidence, Ive taken into account that amongst the information supplied 
by C was internet protocol (IP) address data. C told Vanquis that the payments were made 
from two different locations, neither were in the vicinity of Mr Ms home address. IP address 
data isnt always reliable and as far as the question of authorisation goes, the information 
from the card can be used from any location to make the purchases, not necessarily at Mr 
Ms home address. Viewed in the context of the other evidence here, I dont think the IP 
address data adds weight to whether Mr M authorised the payments or not.
Mr M also told us that a review was posted to C about one of the items that was delivered, 
and that he didnt write it himself. Whilst the review isnt tied directly to the authorisation of 
the goods, it does seem unusual for an unknown third party to go to the trouble of writing a 
review for an item they couldnt possess.
Mr M told us that he hadnt received any emails from C about either order and they werent 
very helpful when he was trying to deal with this matter and he still has the items in his 
possession. My decision here has to focus on Vanquis involvement, as the regulated 
financial business that provides Mr Ms credit card. But, my understanding of how Cs emails 
work is that emails are sent to the account holder when orders are made and when the 
packages dispatched. The only email address Ive seen that C held for these orders is the 
same one we hold for Mr M. So while I understand the point that Mr M makes here, what 
hes said doesnt change my view of whether its fair for Vanquis to hold him liable for these 
payments.
Mr M said he couldnt identify a return address for the companies that supplied both items to 
send them back and organise a refund. C would have been responsible for the return 
process, as they took both payments through their business, on behalf of the sellers. I cant 
say what the specific options for the return and refund would have been, but it seems that 
this could have been a realistic option to deal with the problem at the time.
It's not in question that someone ordered two items from C and paid for them using Mr Ms 
credit card. Those items were delivered to Mr Ms home address. But I cant think of any 
reason why an unknown third party would order items with Mr Ms card, but then arrange for 
them to be delivered to his address. If anyone else had access to the card details and the 
account with C, a different delivery address could have been added to receive the items. 
There were no other disputed transactions reported by Mr M, which supports my view the 
transactions werent as a result of any unknown third party. So, taking everything into 
account, I find it unlikely the transactions were made by anyone using Mr Ms card without 
his authorisation.While Im sure Mr M will disagree with me, the evidence that Ive considered leads me to the 
conclusion that, on the balance of probabilities, it was more likely than not that Mr M 
authorised or allowed his card details to be used to make the payments. So, taking 
everything into account, I think it is fair and reasonable for Vanquis to hold Mr M responsible 
for both transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman