DRN-2806015
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) re-mortgage Ms P took out in 2020 on the advice 
and recommendation of CMME Mortgages And Protection Limited.
The essence of the complaint is that Ms P say the BTL re-mortgage (which raised new 
borrowing of around £27,000) was unsuitable for its intended purpose because a 
residential mortgage application (one of two related applications made alongside the 
BTL to raise funds for a new purchase) was rejected by the lender. 
This meant the new residential purchase Ms P was trying to arrange didnt go ahead. 
Shes been left with a bigger BTL mortgage that she doesnt need, costing her more in 
interest, and subject to an early repayment charge (ERC) if she repays it within five 
years.
CMME has accepted the BTL mortgage should not have been allowed to complete 
before the outcomes of the other applications were known. Its refunded the fees for the 
other two applications; its also offered to cover the extra costs shell incur on the 
now-redundant BTL, reimburse the ERC if Ms P repays it, and pay her £350 
compensation for her time, trouble and upset. 
Our investigator took the view that CMME had made a reasonable offer to settle the 
complaint. Ms B believes the fee for the BTL should be refunded as well.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Ms P being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is more straightforward to resolve that it might appear at first glance; thats 
because its not one where I need to decide fault. CMME has admitted that already, so all 
that leaves for me to decide is whether the proposed settlement is fair.
The sticking point is the fee for the BTL re-mortgage. The fee was paid on a non-refundable 
basis, but Ms P argues that without the other mortgages alongside it, the BTL was 
unsuitable, and therefore the fee should not have been charged. I understand her point, but 
after careful consideration, I dont share it. 
The BTL was a suitable recommendation for its intended purposes (hence the fee for 
arranging it was fairly and reasonably collected on that basis) and that didnt change 
because one of the other components of the wider transaction Ms P was trying to achieve 
fell through. The BTL recommendation wasnt rendered unsuitable by subsequent events, 
merely superfluous. 
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied CMME has made a fair offer to settle this complaint, 
and a further award of compensation from me isnt warranted. Ill make one final observation, 
however, because Ms P was unhappy that CMME provided its settlement proposal in a final 
response that she says gave her no right of appeal. 
The regulator has put rules in place on how financial businesses must deal with complaints. 
A final response such as the one CMME provided to Ms P is a requirement of those rules. It 
offered Ms P redress for her complaint, followed by the option to either accept the redress in 
full and final settlement or reject the redress and refer the complaint to this service instead. 
The referral to this service is Ms Ps right of appeal, and she may still have one further 
avenue after us.
Ms P doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor CMME 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Ms Ps right to take legal action against CMME over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman