DRN-3869026
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) stopped his account 
switch to another bank and closed his account.
What happened
Mr D opened an account with Halifax in July 2022; and decided to switch to another bank 
(which I will call bank A). On 27 July 2022, he called Halifax as he was having trouble 
accessing online/mobile banking. Early in August 2022, he started the switching process to 
bank A. On 8 August 2022, Mr D made withdrawal of £7,392.00 at a branch. On 10 August 
2022, Halifax closed his account and sent the balance of £5,300.92 to his account with 
another bank.
Mr D complained. He said Halifax stopped his switch to bank A. He said Halifax closed his 
account unreasonably and without notice.
Halifax said Mr D called them on 27 July 2022 as he was having trouble accessing online 
banking. He had forgotten his password and a reference number was given to him for him to 
quote when he called back  to reset the password. This was then reset. But because of the 
inappropriate language Mr D used on the phone, Halifax made the decision to close his 
account. Halifax called Mr D on 5 August 2022 to advise him of that. Halifax said that 
normally, they  would give 60 days notice but in view of his language and abusive behaviour 
on that call, they decided to close his account immediately.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax were within their rights to 
close Mr Ds account under their terms of business. Mr Ds switching of account to bank A 
was suspended at the same time. Up to then there were no restrictions on his account. He 
could see that transactions were being made  so that confirmed this to be the case.
Mr D brought his complaint to us. And so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D started the switch from Halifax to bank A on or around 5 August 2022. He says it was 
blocked by Halifax. He said that as a result, he couldnt get access to his money.
I listened to the calls between Mr D and Halifax on 27 July 2022. Mr D was having trouble 
accessing online banking and needed to reset his password. He had been sent a reference 
number to use. He made several calls on that day, and each time he became more 
frustrated with Halifaxs processes. I have to say that Halifaxs staff remained professional 
and were trying to help Mr D. And while I appreciate Mr D was frustrated, he was aggressive 
on the calls and used foul and abusive language. Halifax terminated two of the calls as a 
result.
After Mr D complained to Halifaxs CEO, Halifaxs complaint handler called Mr D on 5 August 
2022. I listened to that call also. She advised him that because of his behaviour on the calls 
on 27 July 2022, Halifax had taken the decision to close his account. She said theyd give 60 
days notice. But when Mr D became abusive again, and used more foul language, she 
made the decision to close his accounts immediately. I heard the language that Mr D used 
and I can appreciate why Halifax took the decision they did.
Halifax can close accounts if they wish and can do so without giving notice - if a customer 
has used abusive language. In the terms and conditions it says: We may decide to close 
your account if we become aware that you have:acted threateningly, abusively or violently 
towards our staff If we decide to close your account, we will write to you at least two 
months before. We wont write to you two months before if we are closing your account (if 
you) have acted in an abusive, threatening or violent way. Therefore  Halifax were entitled 
to close Mr Ds account without notice.
Halifax also told us that because of the decision to close his account, Mr Ds switch to bank 
A was also stopped  as it was within the seven-day switching period. However, I can see 
that a withdrawal of £7,392 was made by Mr D at a branch; and after that, Halifax sent the 
balance of £5,300.92 to Mr Ds account with another bank. So Im persuaded that Mr D had 
access to his money  and wasnt inconvenienced though having a lack of funds for any 
significant period.
Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint and Im not going to ask Halifax to do anything 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman