DRN-3890840
The complaint
Mrs B is complaining about the administration of her life insurance policies by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Ltd.
What happened
Mrs B held a number of flexible life cover plans with a predecessor of Aviva. In July 2020, 
Aviva issued a new policy to her, following a review of her existing policies. 
Mrs B says she wasnt given any information about the new policy. In particular shes 
unhappy that she wasnt told there would be a 13-month waiting period for her premiums to 
be invested or that negative units would accrue until the end of the waiting period. She 
realised this when she received the annual policy statement in March 2022, which showed 
the surrender value was almost zero. Mrs B added that theres nothing in the terms and 
conditions or particulars of policy about the waiting period or negative units.
Mrs B says she suffered a 5% charge on the negative units and will suffer a further 5% 
charge on the purchase of positive units to offset these. And she hasnt been able to benefit 
from any investment growth that she would have accrued had the premiums been invested 
from the outset. She also says shes suffered stress and inconvenience and spent many 
hours on the phone to Aviva.
Aviva said that the policy was effectively an extension of her previous policies and that it was 
therefore covered by terms and conditions from 2007. They paid her £100 to apologise for 
their poor customer service and complaint handling.
Mrs B complained to our service, but our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said the policy was a top up policy and that Aviva didnt give any advice in 
relation it. She added that as a whole of life policy, the main aim is to provide life assurance, 
rather than an investment. On balance she thought Aviva had administered the policy 
correctly. Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, she said: 
The policy wasnt a top up policy  it was a new one instigated as part of the ten year 
review. Although Aviva recommended the new policy, they didnt advise her  which 
is why it was even more important that she be given full details of the policy before 
taking it out.
Although the aim of a whole of life policy is to provide life cover, the investment 
element is an integral part of the structure which is intended to give flexibility around 
future premiums and sum assured.
She hasnt seen anything in the terms and conditions that says the investment value 
would be minimal.
Although businesses are free to design their own administrative processes, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires that certain information must be supplied 
before a customer takes out a regulated policy. 
Because she wasnt informed of the charges at the beginning of the policy, she 
wasnt able to make an informed decision as to whether or not the new policy was 
suitable. Without seeing the documents, she could reasonably expect the policy to 
have a value of at least £400 after two years, rather than almost zero. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mrs B, Im not upholding her 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
In March 2020, Aviva reviewed Mrs Bs existing policies. They concluded that Mrs Bs 
premiums werent enough to maintain her cover. Mrs B completed and signed a Form of 
Request in which she agreed to increase her premiums and take out a new policy. The form 
stated in respect of the new policy This policy will be invested on the same basis and 
acceptance terms applicable to the most recent policy.
Its clear this was a top up policy  because it would be on the same terms as the previous 
policy. And there was no underwriting process for the new policy  Mrs B didnt have to 
provide details of any medical conditions, for example, which would have been needed for a 
standalone new policy. Top up policies are common where the original policies have been 
running for many years  the systems often dont allow a restructure of the existing policies. 
In particular, they often dont allow premium increases on existing policies  which would 
have been needed in Mrs Bs case to achieve the £100,000 sum assured. 
I can understand Mrs Bs complaint that Aviva didnt send her any information about the key 
features or terms and conditions of the new policy  but the Form of Request is clear that 
these would be exactly the same as the last policy. So although it might have been helpful 
for them to send her these documents again, I cant say they should have done  top up 
policies are viewed as a continuation of the existing policies.  
The terms and conditions and key features documents for this policy date back to 2007. The 
key features document states Your plan is intended to provide protection rather than 
investment. As a result there may be little or no cash-in value, even after many years. The 
same document also explains that premiums in the first few years may be used for 
administration: For an initial period, which may be up to 24 months for Level Premiums or 
39 months for Low Start Premiums, part of the premium that we receive from you will be 
used to pay for the costs of setting up and administering your plan. The percentage of the 
premium used to buy units during this period may be low or nil.
In addition, Aviva have sent a copy of the Policy Schedule they say would have been 
provided to Mrs B around the time the new policy started. This schedule shows that the 
investment content of the premiums was expected to be zero until the 13 April 2021 
premium  after which it would be 100%.
Looking at everything together, Im satisfied that this was a top up policy and not a new 
standalone policy. I think Mrs B could have deduced that the first 13 months of premiums 
would be used to pay administrative charges relating to the policy. I agree with her that the 
documents arent particularly clear and Aviva could have done more to explain the charges 
to her. But even if the information had been made clearer to Mrs B, I dont think shed have 
done anything differently  its clear she wanted the additional cover provided by the top up 
policy. Aviva werent able to amend her existing policies so there were limited alternative 
options available to her. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman