DRN-2541467
The complaint
Mr H complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited (MotoNovo) was misrepresented as having a full service history. He 
wants to reject the vehicle.
What happened
Mr H tells us he acquired the vehicle in March 2019 from a dealer Ill refer to as D. And that 
he was assured that it came with a full service history. He states that soon after the vehicle 
was supplied to him, he identified a number of faults with the vehicle and arranged to have 
them repaired. D subsequently refunded the costs. And the matter was settled with Mr H 
retaining the vehicle.
About a year later, Mr H explains that he took the vehicle to have its annual service. And that 
he was advised there was a service missing from the vehicles history. Mr H then made a 
complaint to MotoNovo and this service.
MotoNovo told us that it had accepted that the vehicle had been shown to have missed a 
service in 2018. And that it had made an offer to Mr H for £600 redress together with an 
additional £50 for distress and inconvenience. It said that Mr H had accepted the offer and 
the payment had been made to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
original faults with the vehicle had been resolved with the dealer and that Mr H had told our 
investigator that hed received £500 from D. He also found that Mr H had accepted the 
offer made by MotoNovo in relation to compensation for the missing service history. 
Accordingly he felt both aspects had been settled fairly.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. And said that he only took the settlement as he thought 
the service history would eventually be provided. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
It would also be responsible for any misrepresentation made about the vehicle by the dealer 
D or a credit broker during antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false 
statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss as a 
result of the misrepresentation. And here it doesnt seem to have been disputed by 
MotoNovo that thered been a misrepresentation in terms of the service history.
The usual approach of this service where theres been a misrepresentation, is to try to put 
the consumer back to the position theyd have been in other than for the misrepresentation. 
This would potentially have allowed Mr H to reject the vehicle  and subject to payment for 
fair use  to end the agreement. 
But on a number of occasions Mr H indicated he wished to stay with the vehicle. And 
MotoNovo made an offer which was based on the estimated difference in value of the 
vehicle which resulted from the missing service. Mr H accepted the offer of £600 
compensation as redress for the missing service. And an additional payment of £50 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr H now says he wishes to reject the vehicle and only took the settlement as he thought the 
service history would eventually be provided. And that it felt as if it was an ultimatum and a 
take it or leave it situation.
Whilst I dont apply the law  directly  I do take it into account. And broadly speaking the 
law encourages parties to settle differences without taking matters to court. It also 
recognises that where an out of court settlement has been freely agreed and acted upon its 
usually considered binding on both parties.
I accept that Mr H may now regret accepting MotoNovos offer, although Im not able to 
accept the reasoning for this. If he thought the service history would eventually be supplied 
its not obvious why MotoNovo would be offering any compensation. As if the service history 
was supplied there wouldnt have been any misrepresentation for which it would be liable.
I agree with the approach taken by our investigator that the initial issues with the vehicle 
were settled by D. Where a vehicle isnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and the short 
term right to reject isnt exercised (which usually has to be within 30 days of supply) the 
supplier has the opportunity to put things right. And thats what seems to have happened 
here. And I note that it wasnt until about a year after supply that the issue of the service 
history became known. In the meantime Mr H seems to have been able to use the vehicle.
After making the offer of compensation in respect of the missing service history  and Mr H 
accepting it  MotoNovo was entitled to consider the matter settled. 
In summary, having made an offer of settlement which was accepted, Ive not seen any 
information which would make me think that MotoNovo hadnt acted fairly. Accordingly, Im 
not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about FirstRand Bank Limited trading 
as MotoNovo Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman