DRN-1616447
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that it was irresponsible for Loans 2 Go Limited to lend her money in 2019.
What happened
In March 2019, Loans 2 Go lent Ms B £1,000. Ms B agreed to repay this amount, with 
interest, over a term of 18 months. Interest was charged at a simple fixed interest rate of 
207.6% per year on the amount of credit for the term and was applied to the account, in full, 
at the commencement of the agreement. This is equivalent to an APR of 1,013.2%. The 
monthly repayments were £228.56, and - if Ms B made each payment - shed pay £4,114.06 
in total.
Ms B made the first two monthly loan repayments when they were due. But since then shes 
been unable to make the contractual repayments and has entered an arrangement with 
Loans 2 Go to pay less.
Ms B says it was irresponsible for Loans 2 Go to lend her the money.
I issued my provisional findings on 17 April 2020. I explained that, based on what Id seen, I 
thought Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. I said Id consider any response I received by 17 
May 2020.
Loans 2 Go hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
Ms B agrees with my provisional findings.
I have therefore looked at the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
In this case, the relevant rules are set out in the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), 
which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Loans 2 Go was entering a regulated credit agreement. So it had to undertake a reasonable 
assessment of Ms Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement.
This means that Loans 2 Go had to consider both the risk that Ms B wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Ms B of not being able to make 
these repayments. In particular, Loans 2 Go had to consider Ms Bs ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without Ms 
B having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other repayment she 
had a contractual or statutory duty to make; and without the repayments having a significant 
adverse effect on her financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  Loans 2 Go needed to take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Ms Bs 
current income. It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate of, Ms Bs current non-discretionary expenditure. 
Beyond this, the extent of any checks needed to be proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of the lending. This included factors such as the term of the lending, the 
amount of the payments, the total amount payable and the rate of interest.
The rules also list unfair business practices. In particular, Loans 2 Go mustnt accept an 
application for credit where it knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that the customer 
has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment. An example of this would be where information supplied by 
the customer concerning income or employment status is clearly inconsistent with other 
information of which the firm is aware.
I kept this in mind when looking as Ms Bs complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that based on what Id seen I thought her complaint 
should be upheld:
I said that the main question for me to decide was whether Loans 2 Go has carried 
out reasonable creditworthiness checks, and if not, what would most likely have 
happened if it had.
Ms B applied for a loan of £1,000. According to Loans 2 Gos records, Ms B told 
them she earned £4,900 a month, and declared expenses of £2,630, including 
£1,500 of regular credit commitments and £650 in home costs. So Loans 2 Go says 
that, based on these figures, Ms B had a disposable income of around £2,270 a 
month.
Loans 2 Go says it then verified the information Ms B provided using information from 
a credit reference agency. It says it verified the minimum income needed for the loan 
to be affordable, £3,695.71.
Loans 2 Go says it worked out that Ms B was spending £1,847.05 on her other credit 
commitments. It allowed a further £1,130 for other regular expenses. So it says that 
Ms Bs expenses were £2,977. It says it also deducted 10% from her verified income 
of £3,695.71 to allow for fluctuations in monthly expenditure.
So Loans 2 Go used a net income figure of £3,326.14 and expenditure of £2,997.05. 
It says this left Ms B with a disposable income of £349.09. The monthly repayments 
to the new loan were £225.56. Therefore Loans 2 Go concluded that, after paying the 
new loan commitment, Ms B was left with a disposable income of £120.53  and so 
says the loan was affordable.
I said that based on what Id seen, further checks would have been proportionate. I 
thought there were good reasons to doubt what Ms B had said about her income and 
expenditure. On the face of it, she had a disposable income of around £2,300. This 
was considerably more than she was asking to borrow. The credit file Loans 2 Go relied on also showed credit cards with limits of £9,200, of which Ms B was using 
around £9,000 or 98%. In one case shed exceeded her credit limit. I also saw that in 
the months leading up to this application Ms B had increased her borrowing. The file 
showed a loan with a balance of around £6,000 that started in January 2019, and a 
loan with a balance of around £5,200 which she took out in October 2018. Two of her 
credit cards started in November 2018. Shed applied for a loan from Loans 2 Go just 
two months previously. So I thought the information Loans 2 Go had raised the 
possibility that Ms B was struggling to meet her existing expenses without seeking 
further credit  and may have been borrowing to meet her existing credit 
commitments. I think Loans 2 Go needed to think about whether it was sustainable 
for Ms B to take on more credit  and I thought further checks would have been 
proportionating.
I was also mindful that Loans 2 Go said its own checks showed that Ms Bs expenses 
were probably higher than she declared in the application. I see it verified an income 
£1,200 less than Ms B declared in her application. Given these significant differences 
between these figures, it was important to check the true position.
So I thought about what further checks would most likely have revealed. Ms B had 
sent us bank statements, which I thought was the best information I had about what 
further checks would have revealed.
I first thought about Ms Bs income. Though shed declared an income of around 
£4,900 on her application, this appears to have included payments she received from 
her son, who lived with her, to help pay for joint expenses and her own existing credit 
commitments and regular expenses. Her employment income was considerably less 
and fluctuated from month to month: around £2,775 in March 2019, and just £1,440 
in January. So it looked as though her employment income barely covered her 
declared expenses and existing credit commitments.  As such, I felt that if Loans 2 
Go had carried out basic checks of Ms Bs income, it would likely have questioned 
whether Ms B was likely to be able to make the repayments to the new commitments 
out of her own income.
It also appeared that some of the income from the son was to pay for joint 
commitments that Ms B hadnt considered as part of her own expenses. The 
statements, for instance, showed that she paid rent of around £1,560 a month. And 
while I didnt doubt that Ms Bs son would have wanted to help if Ms B was in 
financial difficulties, I didnt think it would have been reasonable to expect this income 
to always be available to Ms B to make the repayments under the new agreement.
I was also concerned that the lending didnt take into account the possibility that 
Ms B would need to borrow again in order to afford her new commitments. Looking at 
her bank statements, I see Ms B was considerably overdrawn. There were just four 
days during the three months before she took out this loan when her overdraft was 
less than £2,000  and much of the time it was closer to £4,000. This was despite 
drawing down nearly £4,600 in new loans: in January Ms B borrowed £1,547.93 in 
cash from another lender. In February, she borrowed a further £2,700. In March she 
borrowed a further £400. But her overall financial position doesnt appear to have 
improved  and given the amounts she was borrowing each month I thought it was 
likely Ms B needed to borrow this money just to pay her existing credit commitments.
Taken together, I thought that if Loans 2 Go had carried out further checks, it would 
have realised there was a real prospect that Ms B would need to borrow again in order to afford the new loan. So I didnt think Loans 2 Go would have concluded this 
new loan was affordable. It follows it wouldnt have lent.
Loans 2 Go said it shouldnt have been held responsible if the information Ms B gave 
it wasnt accurate. But I didnt think this changed my conclusion: based on what 
Loans 2 Go had told me, further checks were proportionate. And, as Id said, the 
rules placed an obligation on Loans 2 Go not to lend if it believed the information 
Ms B had given them was inaccurate.
Loans 2 Go had also referred me to decisions by other ombudsmen. I explained that 
affordability checks had to be tailored to the individual lending decision  and that 
what would be proportionate checks in one case may not be proportionate in another. 
Those decisions were made in the contexts of other lending decisions by different 
lenders and were decided based on the individual circumstances of those 
complaints. So this didnt change my conclusion.
Ms B says she accepts my provisional findings. Loans 2 Go hasnt responded. I therefore 
reach the same conclusions for the same reasons.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. Loans 2 Go shouldnt have 
given Ms B the loan  and I understand theres a balance outstanding on it.
a) Loans 2 Go should remove any interest, fees and charges from the outstanding 
balance on the loan, and treat any repayments made by Ms B as though they had 
been repayments of the principal.
If this results in Ms B having made overpayments, then Loans 2 Go should refund 
these overpayments with simple interest (the rate is 8% a year) on these 
overpayments from the date the overpayments would have arisen to the date the 
complaint is settled.*
If there is an outstanding balance, the Loans 2 Go should agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms B. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made of 
principal that it has already written off. 
b) Loans 2 Go should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in 
relation to the loan once the loan is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if Ms B asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
 Edward Hardman
Ombudsman