DRN-4177435
Complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In December 2020, Miss Ns current account received a number of payments from third 
parties. These funds were immediately transferred on to another account in Miss Ns name. 
Santander subsequently received notifications from the third-party bank, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Ns account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. As a result of this notification, Santander reviewed Miss Ns account 
and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Upon learning of the fraud marker, Miss N complained. Santander looked at Miss Ns 
complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss N remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ns concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss N unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss N disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss N is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Ns account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss N was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss N allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ns complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ns account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little 
more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Ns 
account in December 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss N was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss N has said that she didnt know anything about the payments that came into her 
account at the time and she wasnt responsible for transferring the funds out. Miss N also 
said that she gave someone access to her account because she was told that this was a 
legitimate way of making money.  
Ive thought about what Miss N has said. However, Ive been provided with the details of a 
conversation Miss N had with someone from Santander where she told them that the funds 
for at least one of the transactions were from a family friend to purchase items. So its 
difficult for me to accept that Miss N had no knowledge of what was happening on her 
account at the time.
Miss N says that she was told to say this by the person whom she gave access to her 
account. And shes provided copies of a screenshot from a conversation which she says 
shows she was asked to provide her details. Ive looked at the messages concerned. It is 
possible that this is a record of a conversation between Miss N and the person who she says 
promised to make her money.
But even if this is the case, the messages appear to show that Miss N had concerns about 
the legitimacy of the enterprise she was getting into. I say this because the conversation 
includes a message saying Hmmm will my card get blocked?. I appreciate that the 
response to this was no and Miss N decided to proceed. However, its clear that Miss N had 
concerns that there could be a risk to her account and that she could lose the use of her 
facility, yet she nonetheless decided to proceed anyway.
Furthermore, there can be no dispute that Miss N knew that there were concerns about the 
transactions on her account when Santander contacted her in December 2020. Yet Miss N 
chose to provide a version of events she knew to be untrue, instead of explaining that shed 
been unwittingly caught up in something. Bearing in mind everything, it seems to me that 
Miss N was aware that she could be allowing a third-party to use her account for illegitimate 
purposes and yet decided to proceed. 
So Im afraid that the available evidence simply doesnt support that Miss N was an unwitting 
participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not Miss N was complicit in her account 
receiving fraudulent funds which were then dispersed.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ns account. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss N was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud 
prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss N  especially in light of the ongoing 
impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope Miss N will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Miss N might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman