DRN-2146128
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages (Precise) instructed a valuation as part of a mortgage application sooner than it 
shouldve done. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage with Precise via a broker on 28 October 2019.
On 29 October 2019 an underwriter carried out an initial review of their application. The 
underwriter requested additional information to support the application from the broker. They 
also instructed a valuation of the property at the same time  and informed the broker.
The valuation took place on 5 November 2019. The cost of this was met by Mr and Mrs S.
The broker provided some of the information requested to the underwriter. They also 
explained why some of the information was not available.
Following receipt of the information and explanation from the broker, Precise explained that 
it could not consider Mr S income as part of the application  as it fell outside of its lending 
criteria. As a result, it was not able to offer the amount of borrowing Mr and Mrs S needed. 
This all happened after the valuation had taken place.
As Precise could not provide the mortgage Mr and Mrs S needed the application was not 
taken further.
Mr and Mrs S then lodged a complaint with Precise about the valuation. They said they felt it 
had been carried out earlier than it shouldve been. They felt it shouldnt have happened until 
after Precise had confirmed it was willing to lend the amount that they wanted, having 
assessed their circumstances. And here that wouldve meant a valuation wouldnt have 
happened and they wouldnt have incurred the associated cost.
Precise said it didnt think it had done anything wrong by instructing the valuation when it did. 
It said Mr and Mrs S broker had agreed to the fee structure by submitting the application. 
And it had informed the broker the valuation was going to be carried out, so if the broker had 
felt it should not have happened at that time, they couldve requested that it be put on hold.
Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs S asked our service to look into the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and felt that it should be upheld. He said 
that the fact that a lot of information had been requested by the underwriter on the same day 
the valuation had been requested, indicated the affordability assessment hadnt been 
completed. So, he thought Precise had acted prematurely by instructing the valuation when 
it did. As a result, he felt it should refund the fee Mr and Mrs S paid for the valuation.
Precise did not agree. It said it had followed its standard procedure when instructing the 
valuation which it felt was in line with wider industry practice. It said it had carried out an 
initial assessment of the information provided on good faith before deciding to do so. And 
Precise reiterated the broker couldve asked for the valuation to be put on hold, if they 
thought the information it had requested may not have been available  which could in turn 
have impacted the success of the application.
As Precise did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Precise has said it has acted in line with its standard process when instructing the valuation 
and it thinks this is in line with usual industry practice. And this may well be the case. But Im 
not looking at Precise processes here or making recommendations about how it should run 
its business  as that is not my role. Rather Im looking at the individual circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs S complaint and whether I think Precise acted fairly in instructing the valuation 
when it did.
The application for the mortgage was made on 28 October 2019 and an initial assessment 
was carried out by an underwriter the next day. The information provided by Precise 
indicates that the underwriter thought, based on the information listed in the application 
submitted by the broker, that the application would be in line with its lending criteria  if the 
information contained within it was correct. So, they instructed a valuation. The available 
information suggests a preferred completion date had been mentioned. But this was noted 
as mid-December 2019. So, I dont think the valuation was required immediately.
Precise has made a point of saying it assessed the information in the application in good 
faith. But it hadnt verified the information at that stage. That is evidenced by it requesting 
additional information to do so  including a number of pieces of information to check 
income. So, although an initial assessment had been carried out, a full review of affordability 
and whether Precise was willing to lend based on Mr and Mrs S actual circumstances hadnt 
been completed before a valuation was instructed.
Precise had a responsibility to treat Mr and Mrs S fairly. And I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Precise to have completed this full review of affordability before instructing a 
valuation  given Mr and Mrs S would be the ones bearing the cost of the valuation. Without 
this having been done, there was still a risk that, on review, Mr and Mrs S employment 
history and income details would not in fact meet Precise lending criteria. Which is what has 
happened. But if this had been checked first, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have unnecessarily 
incurred the cost associated with the valuation.
Precise has said that the broker couldve requested the valuation be put on hold. But I dont 
think the broker would necessarily have reasonably known there was any reason to do so. 
Only Precise could confirm if Mr and Mrs S circumstances met its lending criteria. And I 
think it wouldve been appropriate for it to have confirmed this, before causing Mr and Mrs S 
to incur a cost. 
So, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was fair of Precise to 
have instructed a valuation at the point it did. I think it wouldve been more appropriate to 
have waited to do so until it had confirmed that it has completed its verification of Mr and 
Mrs S circumstances and confirmed it was willing to lend them the amount they required, 
subject to the property being suitable security. Had it done this, it appears likely here that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have incurred the cost of the valuation. So, I think itd be reasonable for 
Precise to refund this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
To put things right I think Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise 
Mortgages should refund the fee charged in respect of the valuation to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman