DRN-2890471
The complaint
 Miss K is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard are reporting a credit card 
to credit reference agencies which shes said she was forced to take out by her abusive 
ex-partner. 
 
What happened
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to go into too 
much detail here. In summary though, Miss K explained she was forced to take out credit 
with several businesses, including Barclaycard. She felt compelled to do under duress 
because of an abusive relationship with her former partner. 
Miss K has since left the relationship with her daughter. Miss K continues to recover from the 
relationship and its impact on her. She has mental health conditions and is supported by her 
local mental health team for her conditions.
As a result, Miss K is struggling to move on with her life. In particular, shes still living in 
temporary accommodation as shes found it impossible to take out a tenancy agreement  
as landlords and letting agents carry out credit checks. 
Her credit file showed a credit card taken out with Barclaycard, which was defaulted with a 
balance of over £3,000 outstanding. due to defaults and adverse information being reported 
to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). 
Our investigator contacted Barclays and explained the situation. Barclays agreed to write off 
the debt on medical grounds in light of her mental health conditions. But it maintained that it 
was appropriate to record it as being in default and partially settled, with a history of missed 
payments. 
After further discussion, Barclays agreed to remove the default. They also agreed to pay 
Miss K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as it accepted that the 
debt should have been written off sooner. But as it was a medical write off, the account 
would show as partially settled and late payment markers would remain  as that was a true 
reflection of the conduct of the account.
Miss K was unhappy that adverse information was still showing. Miss K said the adverse 
information was stopping her from obtaining settled rental accommodation for her and her 
daughter  which in turn was severely affecting her mental health. 
As Miss K remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Miss K for being so frank about her circumstances to us. I can see 
shes had a very difficult time and Im very sorry to hear about everything she and her 
daughter have experienced.
 
The credit card in question was initially taken out in November 2017. Following several 
continuous late payments, the account then defaulted in February 2019 with an outstanding 
balance of £3,850. 
Barclays has now written off the debt so Im satisfied that this has been settled between both 
parties. However, I need to decide what its fair for Barclays to record with the credit 
reference agencies.
Miss K has explained the difficult circumstances she was in with her ex-partner that led her 
to having to flee her home with her daughter. Miss K has also provided details of the abuse 
shes suffered as well as a copy of the restraining order she has against her ex-partner. And 
shes explained both the nature of the abuse and its ongoing impact on her even after the 
end of the relationship.
Barclays agreed to remove the default because it wrote off the debt on medical grounds. But 
it said it couldnt remove the debt, or the late payment markers, from her credit file, because 
they accurately reflected the conduct of the account. 
It said it would consider doing so if Miss K was able to provide police reports or social 
services evidence of abuse. But in the absence of that independent evidence, it wasnt able 
to do so. Barclays also said that Miss K may have benefited from the spending as large 
purchases were made on what looks like home improvements and a phone. 
Ive considered what Barclays has said. Its true that Miss K hasnt provided police or social 
services reports. But theyre not always available in cases of domestic abuse  and there 
can be many reasons for that. Theyre examples of evidence that may be available  not 
minimum requirements without which abuse cannot be considered.
Miss K has given us a copy of a restraining order. Shes also explained how upsetting and 
difficult this is for her. In my view, her testimony of her experiences is clear and compelling. 
Im satisfied on balance that the credit card was taken out under duress. And given that Miss 
K fled the property shortly after, I dont think it can fairly be said that she has benefitted from 
the spending on the card.
Barclays also suggested that considering Miss Ks mental health it would be irresponsible to 
remove the information from the credit file as her condition may cause her to seek more 
credit in the future and lead to spending. But Ive not been presented with any evidence 
which persuades me she obtained or used this credit as a result of her condition, or that 
shes likely to do so in the future.
Putting things right
Miss K has given persuasive and consistent testimony to what happened, and I consider 
more likely than not that she was pressured into taking out this credit which she has had no 
benefit from. And so I dont think it would be fair to report adverse information on her credit 
file relating to this account. I agree that there were in fact late payments made, and it 
wouldnt be accurate to report that the account was up to date. But I also dont think it would 
be fair to suggest that she was responsible for the conduct of the account. In the 
circumstances, the fairest thing to do is to remove the record of it from her credit file.I note Barclays has already paid Miss K £500 compensation and written the debt off. I think 
thats fair and I dont require it to take further action in respect of financial or non-financial 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In addition to the 
steps it has already taken, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should remove 
records of this credit card account from Miss Ks credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman