DRN-3198465
The complaint
Miss P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) reduced the limit on her gold credit card.
What happened
Miss P is a long-standing customer of HSBC  of over 50 years - and had a gold card with a 
limit of £2,000. In October 2020, HSBC wrote to her to advise that her limit was to be 
reduced to £1,000 in November 2020. 
Miss P complained. She said shed always maintained the gold card account well  she paid 
the account on time, in full, and never exceeded her limit. She said that all her other financial 
affairs were in order, she had no debts, and her credit score was very high. She couldnt 
understand why HSBC could take such an action. She wondered if she had been the victim 
of identity theft and if her credit record had been confused with someone else. To try to 
resolve matters, she visited a branch of HSBC  which put her at risk from the pandemic. 
She said the whole episode had caused her a lot of stress and worry.
HSBC said theyd reduced Miss Ps limit in line with their responsible lending policies. This 
was to ensure that customers limits are suitable and affordable. They took into account a 
range of factors to reach such decisions. HSBC said that the reduction in Miss Ps limit didnt 
mean she was a poor credit risk. They said Miss P could reapply for an increase after six 
months. HSBC said they were sorry that Miss P travelled to a branch  but also said that 
their branches followed strict Covid-secure guidelines, including social distancing, queue 
management, the use of open spaces and restricting the number of customers in a branch at 
any one time. They apologised for the inconvenience and paid compensation of £25.
Miss P didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that HSBC 
could take their own lending decisions, based on their own lending criteria which were 
commercially sensitive. It wasnt for us to interfere with that. HSBC could review Miss Ps 
limit  as they would for any customer. Our investigator noted that HSBC had said their 
branches followed strict Covid guidelines. Overall, she said that we couldnt tell HSBC to 
reinstate Miss Ps limit of £2,000.
Miss P didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Miss P feels that she was treated unfairly. She is a long-standing 
customer of HSBC  of more than 50 years - and told us she has never been in financial 
difficulty. She maintains her bank current account with a high credit balance and has never 
missed a payment to her gold card  and never been over the limit. She only ever uses a 
small amount of her limit. She says her credit score with credit reference agencies is very 
high. So - she cannot understand why HSBC took the decision to reduce her limit  and 
clearly sees this as a judgement on her credit standing. I can see from what she has said to 
us that shes become very upset by what has happened.
Ive looked into Miss Ps complaint. Our investigator is correct  we cant tell HSBC how to 
lend money and to who. Thats their commercial business and is for HSBC to decide. Its 
also in the terms and conditions of Miss Ps credit card that HSBC can decide to change a 
customers limit if they wish to do so. In Miss Ps case, HSBC did give a months notice  so 
for example, she couldve applied for a credit card from another lender if she wished.
HSBC havent told us why they reduced Miss Ps limit  because it is down to HSBC to take 
those commercial decisions as they see fit. But looking at Miss Ps account  I can see that 
she only ever used up to about £600 of her limit during the year up to October 2020  so it 
does look as though HSBC considered that as a factor. And I can see theyve said in their 
final response that they wished to ensure that a customers limit is at the right level for what 
they need. In other words, because Miss P didnt use her limit in full, HSBC considered  as 
one factor (among others) in looking at Miss Ps limit  that she didnt need a limit of £2,000.
In Miss Ps case, I asked HSBC if they would reinstate Miss Ps limit of £2,000 and Im 
pleased to say that they agreed to do that as a gesture of goodwill. I had hoped that this 
would satisfy Miss P and enable her to close her complaint. But she made the point that she 
still believes that what HSBC did harmed her mental well-being  and said that she thought 
their treatment of debt-free customers in todays society isnt acceptable.
So  I have gone on to consider her further comments. And I still have to say  that we cant 
tell HSBC (or any other bank) how to lend money to individual customers, or to tell them 
what their lending policies and criteria should be. Thats a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  HSBCs regulator. I can only look at how Miss P has been treated in the 
circumstances of her complaint. And in this regard  I cant say that HSBC acted wrongly (as 
they have the right to do what they did). And  as I have said  HSBC have agreed to 
reinstate Miss Ps credit limit back to its original level.
Miss P also said she felt she was put at risk by having to visit a branch of HSBC during the 
pandemic  as she couldnt get through on the phone. I can see why she took that action  
because she was concerned and wanted to get an answer about what had happened. But  
HSBC have assured us that strict Covid guidelines were being followed  and I think we 
must accept that to be the case.
I completely understand how strongly Miss P feels, and why. But also, I hope she can 
understand and appreciate my explanation. I suspect she will be disappointed by my 
decision. But  I wont be asking HSBC to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman