DRN-2642657
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined to port their 
mortgage. They ask that it refunds part of the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W had a joint mortgage with Nationwide. They took out a five-year fixed 
interest rate product in 2017. They separated and wanted to buy separate properties. In late 
2019 Mrs W contacted Nationwide as she wanted to port the fixed interest rate product to a 
new property to avoid paying the ERC. 
Nationwide declined Mrs Ws application, saying the amount she wanted to borrow wasnt 
affordable. Mrs W says Nationwide didnt assess her income and outgoings fairly. 
Nationwide also declined Mr Ws porting application. Mrs W and Mr W repaid the mortgage 
and paid an ERC. They ask that part of this is refunded. 
Our investigator said it was reasonable for Nationwide to assess Mrs Ws income, and it 
applied its lending criteria fairly. 
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree. Mrs W said Nationwide hadnt considered their situation or 
been family focussed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W and Mr W took out a mortgage with a fixed interest rate product in 2017. This 
included an ERC which was payable if the mortgage was repaid before the end of 2022. 
Mr W and Mrs Ws circumstances changed and they sold their house and repaid the 
mortgage in mid-2020. Nationwide applied the ERC.
The product Mrs W and Mr W took out was portable. If it had been ported to a new 
mortgage, they wouldnt have had to pay the ERC. 
Mrs W applied to Nationwide for a mortgage, intending to port the product. Nationwide didnt 
offer Mrs W the full amount she wanted to borrow, saying it wasnt affordable. It assessed a 
lower amount as affordable. Mrs W applied to another lender.
Mrs W says the way Nationwide assessed her porting application was unfair. It didnt include 
agreed maintenance payments from Mr W in her income. And it did include child care costs 
even though shed be entitled to free child care in the future. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require Nationwide to assess affordability before entering into, 
or varying, a mortgage contract. While theres an exception to this for like for like borrowing, 
that didnt apply here as the new mortgage would be in Mrs Ws sole name, not in Mrs W 
and Mr Ws joint names.
Although Mrs W expected free child care from September 2020, I think it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to include her existing child care costs when she applied for the mortgage in late 
2019. This is consistent with its lending criteria.
Nationwide does include maintenance payments when assessing affordability if three 
months of payments are evidenced by bank statements. Mrs W says many couples in the 
process of separating will be in the same position as her with payments agreed and not yet 
started. I understand the points Mrs W makes, and I appreciate that she doesnt agree with 
the way Nationwide assessed her income and outgoings. I think though that Nationwide 
applied its lending criteria correctly, and I dont think it treated Mrs W unfairly when it 
assessed her application.
The ERC was set out clearly in the mortgage offer, and Mrs W and Mr W agreed to it when 
they took out the product. I think Nationwide was entitled to apply the ERC when Mr W and 
Mrs W repaid the mortgage. I dont think Nationwide treated Mrs W unfairly when it assessed 
her porting application. I know Mr W and Mrs W will be disappointed. But I dont think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to require Nationwide to refund all or part of the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman