DRN-3372396
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has declined a dispute he raised 
with it, after realising the watch he purchased wasnt as described.
What happened
On 2 April 2021, Mr T purchased a watch online. Mr T has explained that the watch was 
advertised as one made by a particular designer, and he paid £3,665 for it. The watch 
was received, and Mr T didnt have any concerns about it  until he took the item in for 
repair and was informed that the item wasnt made by the designer he was told it had 
been. 
Mr T has explained he contacted the website he made the purchase through, who noted 
it couldnt help as the matter had been raised with it more than 30 days after purchase. 
Mr T has also said he contacted his credit card provider, as the funds used to pay the 
watch came from that account, but it also wasnt able to provide Mr T with a return of the 
funds. So, Mr T therefore raised attempted to raise a dispute through PayPal, as he had 
paid for the item using his account.
PayPal declined the dispute. It said that to be eligible to raise a dispute Mr T would have 
needed to raise a dispute within 180 days of payment. It said Mr T had raised the 
dispute after this timeframe, and therefore he was not eligible for buyer protection in this 
instance.
Mr T was dissatisfied with this response. And so, he referred his complaint to this service 
for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
noted the terms of the user agreement between Mr T and PayPal did say a dispute 
needed to be raised within 180 days to be eligible for buyer protection. And Mr T hadnt 
raised a dispute within this time  instead it had been raised in 194 days. Given that 
PayPal had acted in line with this agreement  he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong.
Mr T didnt agree. He raised that his money needed to be returned from somewhere  
whether that be his credit card provider, the online website used for the purchase, or 
PayPal. He felt someone needed to be held accountable for the fact the purchased 
watch wasnt as it was described. And, he felt that applying a strict 180-day dispute 
timeframe was unfair in the circumstances.
Because Mr T disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing to Mr T  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to 
reassure both parties Ive considered all information when coming to my decision. And 
Ive explained the reasoning for my decision below.
Mr T feels PayPal has acted unfairly in saying it isnt able to do anything in relation to the 
watch he was sold. So, Ive thought carefully about this. The starting point being the 
terms of the user agreement between PayPal and Mr T. This being because it is the 
basis of the contract between the two parties.
On looking at the user agreement I can see that PayPal offers the opportunity to raise a 
dispute in a number of situations  including where an item purchased is received but is 
not as described.
But I can also see that to be eligible to use this protection, and to raise a dispute, this 
has to be done within 180 days of payment for the item being made. As this is what the 
parties agreed, Ive needed to consider whether PayPal has acted in line with this. And 
Im satisfied it has.
Mr T paid for the item on 2 April 2021. Ive seen a screenshot of the payment being 
made on this date. And it is also accepted that Mr T raised a dispute on 13 October 2021 
 which Ive also seen a screenshot of. This is 194 days after the payment was made. 
So, Im aware the dispute wasnt made within the necessary 180 days. And so, I think its 
acted reasonably in saying that Mr T isnt eligible to raise a dispute in this instance. 
Mr T has said that PayPal should make an exception to this deadline, given that he 
didnt know the item wasnt as described until he took the watch for repair. But the terms 
of the agreement are clear. And I dont think it would be reasonable to ask PayPal to 
deal with the matter outside of this in this instance  it has done what it agreed to do, 
and applied the same criteria it would to other consumers in the same position.
I understand Mr T feels someone needs to be held accountable for the sale of the item -
and it not being as described. But it isnt the role of this service to do that. Rather, it is for 
us to decide whether PayPal, who Mr T has raised a complaint about, has acted fairly 
and reasonably. And, given the above, Im satisfied it has. So, Im not requiring it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont 
require PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman