DRN-4166997
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Startline Motor Finance Limited confirmed his card details during a 
phone call.
What happened
Mr M was supplied with a car through a regulated credit agreement with Startline. On 31 
March 2023 Mr M called Startline to make a payment towards his agreement because there 
were insufficient funds in his account for this payment to be paid by direct debit. During this 
call Mr M provided his card details  the long card number, the expiry date, and the security 
code  and the advisor read these back to him to confirm they had been captured correctly.
Mr M was unhappy with this. And he said that anyone listening to this call couldve taken 
down these details and used them for fraudulent purposes. And he complained to Startline 
that there had been a potential security breach.
Startline explained that they pause the recording of calls when card details are taken, so as 
not to store this information. But they need to confirm that accurate information is captured, 
and this means that they may have to repeat the information thats been provided. Startline 
also said that the £12 fee theyd charged for the failed direct debit was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement, and they didnt agree any error had been made.
Mr M wasnt happy with this, and he brought his complaint about the reading back of the 
card number to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, while Startline reading out the card details may not have been 
entirely necessary, and doing so caused Mr S some concern, he didnt think Mr M had 
suffered any loss as a result of this  there was nothing to indicate that his card details had 
been used fraudulently. So, he didnt think Startline needed to do anything.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he didnt complain on the basis of loss, 
but on the basis of risk. And that someone couldve noted his card details for future 
fraudulent usage purposes. He said that there are data protection regulations that Startline 
are required to comply with and that hes already raised these issues with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with goods under a regulated credit 
agreement, which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Firstly, I want to recognise the impact this had on Mr M. I dont doubt that he was worried by 
the fact that his full card details were repeated by Startline, and he was concerned that, if 
someone had overheard and made a note of these details, then they couldve potentially 
used them to access the money in his account. But, for me to say that Startline should 
compensate Mr M for this, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong or acted 
unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive listened to the call that took place on 31 March 2023. And, as Startline have confirmed, 
the part of the call when Mr M provided his card details, and the advisor repeated these to 
confirm they had been captured correctly, hasnt been recorded. However, as neither party 
are in dispute about what happened, I dont doubt that this was the case.
Ive also noted that, during the call, the advisor explained to Mr M that there may be a £12 
fee for the direct debit failure, and he confirmed that he was prepared to pay this.
Startline were advised by Mr M of his card details after a direct debit had failed. And its clear 
from the call that Mr M wanted to make sure payment was made that day. If the information 
Mr M had provided was misheard and/or captured incorrectly by Startline, then the payment 
wouldnt have been able to be processed. And had this happened, Mr M wouldve rightly 
been annoyed, especially as this was the last day of the month and the payment not being 
made that day couldve impacted Mr Ms credit file. 
Ive also considered that, if Mr M hadnt wanted Startline to repeat his card information, he 
couldve asked them to stop once they started to do so. But theres no evidence that he did 
this, nor has he said that he did. As such, while Mr M mayve subsequently considered this 
to be a breach of his personal data, Im satisfied that, during the call itself, Mr M was happy 
for his card details to be verbally confirmed by the advisor.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Startline to confirm the information Mr M provided.
This doesnt mean that I dont understand Mr Ms concerns about his personal data being 
misused. But I havent seen anything to show me that Startline put his data at risk by 
confirming it with him. And Mr M hasnt said that his card details have subsequently been 
used for any fraudulent transactions.
When thinking about a situation like this, even if I had thought that Startline had acted 
unfairly, any actions I wouldve asked them to take, or any award I directed them to pay, 
would be intended to place Mr M back in the position he wouldve been had Startline acted 
fairly. And, as Ive said, theres nothing to indicate that Mr Ms card details have been 
fraudulently used, nor have I seen that he has incurred any costs because of what 
happened, for example, as a result of having to ask his bank for a new card.
In respect of what Mr M is concerned might happen, this is a hypothetical future scenario. 
And I wouldnt ask a financial business to compensate a customer for what might happen, 
only for what had happened. Startline have also said that confirming details provided by customers is part of their 
business process. However, it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide 
what processes financial businesses should have in place. This is a decision Startline can 
make in line with its regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. And any data protection 
issues arising from any business process are better suited to the ICO. And Ive seen that Mr 
M has already raised this matter with them. For this reason, I wont comment further on 
Startlines business process in this regard, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman