DRN-3227752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
On 13 May 2019, Mr and Mrs C took out a single trip, cruise travel insurance policy through
a broker. They paid around £3793 for the policy, to cover a worldwide cruise trip they had
booked between 3 January and 12 April 2020. They travelled as planned on 3 January 2020.
However, in early February 2020, the cruise operator had to reschedule planned port stops
to two islands due to a measles outbreak. A planned port stop on 29 February 2020 in
Tasmania had to be cancelled due to a poor weather forecast. And due to the outbreak of
Covid-19 and the impact on international travel, the cruise was prevented from fulfilling any
of its itinerary visiting Asia, the United Arab Emirates and European countries. Instead, the
cruise didnt stop at any ports after 11 March 2020 until the cruise docked back in the UK.
The cruise company paid Mr and Mrs C £600 onboard credit to recognise the disruption to
their cruise. As the policy terms provided up to £300 benefit per skipped port on a cruise, Mr
and Mrs C made a claim on their policy.
Initially, URV turned down the claim because it said Mr and Mrs C hadnt purchased cruise
cover. It later turned down the claim because it said skipped port benefit was only payable if
a cruise couldnt dock at a scheduled port because of adverse weather conditions or
timetable restrictions. It didnt think that missed ports due to Covid-19 fell within the scope of
policy cover.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the
policy terms made it clear that timetable restrictions didnt include Port Authority restrictions
and that they didnt specify that missed ports must be caused by time delays. So she didnt
think it was fair for URV to retrospectively apply this definition. She felt it should therefore
pay Mr and Mrs C skipped port benefit for all of their missed port stops, less the £600 theyd
received from the cruise operator. She also felt that URV had caused Mr and Mrs C distress
when itd wrongly told them that they didnt have cruise cover. So she recommended that it
pay them £100 to recognise this.
URV disagreed. It said that Covid-19 causing port stops to be missed werent listed as
insured events under the policy terms.  
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think URV had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether URV
treated them fairly.
Ive first turned to look at the policy terms, as these form the basis of the contract between
Mr and Mrs C and URV. Section 9 of the cruise cover says that URV will pay Skipped Port
Benefit up to £300 per port that your cruise operator is unable to dock at designated
itinerated ports due to adverse weather conditions or timetable restrictions.
The definitions section of the contract sets out what URV means by timetable restrictions.
These are: Published scheduled itinerary restrictions.
First, the evidence provided by the cruise operator shows that the planned stop in Tasmania
was cancelled due to the poor weather forecasting for the ships anchorage. It seems to me
then that the missing of this port fell squarely within the scope of cover. It isnt at all clear
why URV refused to consider Mr and Mrs Cs claim for this missed port stop.
The cruise providers evidence shows that the other missed ports were skipped because of
outbreaks of illness  whether that was measles in the case of the Pacific Islands, or later
on, because of Covid-19. I accept that neither measles nor Covid-19 can be treated as
adverse weather conditions.
However, I do think its fair and reasonable to treat the skipping of ports because of both
measles and Covid-19 as falling within the scope of timetable restrictions. I say that
because its clear that when the trip was booked and when it set sail, there was a published
scheduled itinerary which the cruise was intended to follow. Due to restrictions beyond the
control of the cruise provider (and following the advice of the World Health Organisation as
well as other agencies and governments), the cruise wasnt able to fulfil its scheduled
itinerary. This meant that Mr and Mrs C missed a number of their scheduled stops.
In its final response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, URV said:
Timetable restrictions is in reference to being unable to reach the dock for the allotted
docking time that has been allocated for the cruise ship. This is normally due to an incident
that has happened whilst at sea, such as, a mechanical fault that results in the cruise ship
running at a slower speed and unable to reach the dock in time. The denial of the cruise ship
docking due to Covid-19 falls under a Port Authority restriction, meaning that the cruise
could have docked in the allotted time allocated but was unable due to being refused by the
Port Authority.
This isnt what the definition of timetable restrictions says though. As Ive set out above, the
definition refers to published scheduled itinerary changes. The terms of the contract make no
reference at all to cover only applying here if the cruise ship cant reach the dock in the
allotted docking time. If that was URVs intention, it was open to it to include such a definition
in the policy terms. I agree with the investigator that it isnt fair or reasonable for URV to
retrospectively apply such a definition to turn down a claim. Especially when this isnt set out
in the policy contract.
So on this basis, I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome is for URV to treat Mr and
Mrs Cs claim as falling within the scope of skipped port benefit cover. And I currently plan
to find that URV should reassess Mr and Mrs Cs claim under this head of cover, in line with
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and taking into account any recoveries
theyve already been able to make if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Ive also seen copies of the correspondence between URV and Mr and Mrs C when the
claim was first made. URV did wrongly tell Mr and Mrs C that they hadnt taken out cruisecover, despite the fact their schedule clearly shows the level of cover they held. I dont doubt
this caused them unnecessary stress and upset, following an already worrying time at sea
and caused further inconvenience to them when they were trying to make a claim. I too then
feel that its fair for URV to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation to recognise this error and the
upset it inevitably caused them. I agree with the investigator that £100 is reasonable
compensation to recognise this mistake and the distress it caused Mr and Mrs C.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Neither Mr and Mrs C, nor URV had anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any more information or evidence to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to reassess Mr and Mrs Cs skipped port benefit claim 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I also direct URV to pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman