DRN-1794039
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that he entered into a finance agreement with Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) without being aware of the 
terms and conditions. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr R purchased an item from a retailer and entered into a personal loan 
agreement with BPF.
Mr R says that at the time of entering into the agreement he was unbale to read the terms 
and conditions because the print was too small, and the retailer didnt know how to display it 
in larger text. Mr R says he was under pressure to complete the purchase if he wanted the 
item delivered on time, so he signed the agreement. He says before doing so he asked the 
assistant if he would be able to pay lump sums to reduce his monthly repayments and was 
advised that he could.
When Mr R got home and was able to read the terms and conditions, he realised that he 
wasnt allowed to pay a lump sum to reduce his monthly payments. He contacted BPF but 
was told he couldnt change the agreement until it was activated, which wold happen when 
the items were delivered. BPF subsequently told Mr R that he couldnt change the monthly 
payment. Mr R says he tried to cancel the agreement but couldnt because it wasnt possible 
to send the items back as they were bulky with lots of packaging.
Mr R says that when he complained to BPF it told him it would place his account on hold. He 
says this led him to believe that he wouldnt go into debt which his complaint was being 
investigated but that instead his account was passed to a debt collection agency and his 
credit rating has been affected. 
Having been unable to resolve things with BPF, Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought BPF had acted fairly because it had 
given Mr R the option to return the items, come out of the agreement and start a new 
agreement with a larger deposit if he wished.
Mr R didnt agree. He said hed been told by BPF that his account was on hold and hed 
been led to believe that he wasnt required to make payments until he was contacted. He 
said hed been prevented from cancelling the agreement within the first 14 days and said 
that although BPF said it would cancel the agreement if he returned the goods, this wasnt 
reasonable as he would have had to dispose of all the packaging.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr R has a separate complaint with this service about his account being 
placed on hold. I wont be looking at this part of the complaint in this decision. Instead, Ill 
focus on whether the agreement was misrepresented to Mr R and whether BPF acted fairly 
and reasonably.
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, Id need to be satisfied that the retailer 
made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr R to enter into the agreement. 
Mr R has said that the retailer told him that he would be able to make a lump sum payment 
to reduce his monthly repayments.
There are no notes of the conversation between Mr R and the retailer and because I wasnt 
present, I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
documents which came into existence at the time to deicide whats most likely to have 
happened.
The agreement which Mr R signed included terms and conditions which Mr R would have 
had to accept before he could proceed to the electronic signature page. Id expect a 
consumer to read the terms and conditions before agreeing to be bound by the terms. Mr R 
has said that he was unable to read the terms and conditions because they were too small. I 
havent been provided with any evidence to show what Mr R would have seen in store, so 
Im unable to say whether the font was too small for him to read. What I would say is that the 
agreement clearly states the amount of the monthly payments and if Mr R was at all 
concerned about his ability to pay this amount then he could have queried this whilst he was 
in store. 
Theres nothing in the agreement which suggests that a lump sum can be paid to reduce 
monthly payments. The agreement is clear about the level of monthly payments. I appreciate 
that Mr R says he was told something different by the assistant but theres no evidence to 
support this and the agreement itself indicates the contrary. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that the agreement was misrepresented.
Ive thought about how BPF responded when Mr R raised concerns about the agreement. Mr 
R says he was prevented from cancelling the agreement but from what Ive seen, BPF 
offered Mr R the option to return the goods and cancel the agreement, which I think was fair. 
Mr R has said that this wasnt a reasonable offer because of the amount of packaging he 
would have to dispose of. I appreciate that packaging can sometimes be difficult to dispose 
of, but on balance, I think f Mr R had wanted to cancel the contract, BPF offered him a 
reasonable option to do so.
Taking everything into account, I think BPF acted fairly and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman