DRN-3550478
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) plc (TMW) conducted unnecessary 
credit searches and took too long to unfairly decline their re-mortgage application. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T applied to TMW via their broker for a re-mortgage on a buy to let (BTL) 
property they owned, as their existing mortgage interest rate product with another lender, 
was coming to an end. Mr T says due to a lack of understanding on TMWs part concerning 
his property portfolio and incorrect information detailed in a valuation report, led it to take 
several months before it decided not to provide the mortgage requested. 
Mr T says TMWs parent business carried out several unnecessary hard credit searches 
which has impacted his credit file. Mr T says given the time TMW has taken over this matter, 
meant he has paid interest at a higher rate than he needed to, and the credit searches it 
carried out will affect his ability to obtain preferable lending terms elsewhere. 
Mr T and Mrs T wants TMW to compensate them for the losses they have incurred. 
TMW says it has apologised for some of the time its underwriters took to fully assess Mr Ts 
and Mrs Ts re-mortgage application, once all the information it required had been provided 
to them and paid Mr T and Mrs T £100 to recognise this. TMW says it only conducted the 
searches it needed to, under its lending criteria. TMW says the make-up and valuations in 
Mr Ts and Mrs Ts property portfolio schedule, didnt match its own modelling process and 
fell outside of its lending policy. 
 Mr T and Mrs T werent happy with TMWs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that TMW were entitled to carry out the credit searches when it did, as this 
was part of its lending policy. The investigator says there was no evidence provided to 
support such searches had negatively impacted on Mr Ts and Mrs Ts credit score, or their 
ability to obtain preferential credit terms elsewhere. 
The investigator says when questioned on the matter, TMW had confirmed the valuation it 
had instructed had been questioned with the surveyor whod confirmed to them, that hed 
taken into account a garage and parking space, but it didnt alter the outcome of the 
valuation provided. The investigator say this wasnt taken further as Mr T and Mrs T had 
agreed to accept the lower mortgage amount being offered at that time, as a result of that 
lower valuation figure.
The investigator felt TMW had acted reasonably when it carried out the checks it did on Mr 
Ts and Mrs Ts property portfolio, against its own modelling process, but accepted the time 
its underwriters took to assess this, was longer than it should have been. That said, the 
investigator felt TMW had apologised and fairly compensated Mr T and Mrs T for that.
Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand Mr T and Mrs T would have been frustrated and upset over the time it took 
for their request to re-mortgage one of their BTL properties, to be declined. When looking at 
this complaint I will consider if TMW acted unfairly when it decided to decline Mr Ts and Mrs 
Ts re-mortgage request and if it had carried out unnecessary credit searches.
There are different parts to Mr Ts and Mrs Ts complaint, firstly the time TMW have taken to 
come to a decision to decline the re-mortgage request and its reasons for doing so, the 
number of unnecessary credit searches it carried out during this process and the disputed 
valuation on the BTL property offered as security for the re-mortgage.
I have been provided with various information and timelines from both parties and while this 
has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point raised or document received as I 
dont think its necessary for me to come to a full and impartial decision  thats not to say I 
havent considered these, I have. 
I have considered the points raised by Mr T and Mrs T concerning the time it took TMW to 
come to its lending decision and the extra interest costs that incurred. The first thing to say 
here is the delays referred to are in the main attributable to the time it took TMWs 
underwriters to assess Mr Ts and Mrs Ts existing property portfolio and its attempts to 
review this. I can see TMW couldnt use its standard modelling process to ascertain an 
accurate make-up of the properties and their rental income streams provided in the property 
portfolio schedule, by Mr Ts and Mrs Ts broker. 
Its fair to say TMW did raise various issues with the broker over a number of months and 
specifically  between November 2020 and mid December 2020, extending the deadline on 
one occasion to allow for this information, so it could be properly assessed. Unfortunately 
here, TMW felt there were too many inconsistencies in the property schedule it had received 
from the broker, compared to the searches it had performed with independent property 
agents and the land registry -in particular TMW werent able to reconcile property 
descriptions and rental incomes.  
So, when considering this point, I cant say that TMW didnt have reasonable concerns when 
it decided the re-mortgage application, didnt meet its lending criteria, nor can I insist it must 
change that lending criteria. Its fair to say that this was the reason why the re-mortgage 
request was declined and not the valuation on the property offered as security for the loan, 
even if Mr T believes it was.  
As far as the valuation is concerned, Mr T feels the BTL property was undervalued, and in 
part because a garage wasnt included in the valuation report. I understand this point, but I 
can see that TMW did refer this back to the valuer who informed them he had taken this into 
account, but it wouldnt alter the outcome of the valuation figure. Its worth saying this wasnt 
taken further as via the broker, Mr T and Mrs T had accepted the lower re-mortgage amount 
at that time, based on the reduced valuation amount. What is clear is this wasnt ultimately why the re-mortgage was declined, this was due to the inconsistencies in Mr T and Mrs T 
property portfolio, that I have previously mentioned. 
I should say its not for me to decide whether or not the valuation report is accurate or not, as 
that is outside the scope of this service and if Mr T and Mrs T remain unhappy about that, 
they should refer it to the appropriate regulator. 
Mr T is concerned about the impact on his credit file of the hard credit searches conducted 
by TMW, but from the information I have seen, TMW have carried out searches in line with 
its processes both at the commencement of the re-mortgage application and after sixty days 
had elapsed from the latest credit score. In addition, I can see a further search was 
conducted in July 2021 relating to a new lending request. 
TMW have explained that some credit reference agencies (CRAs) may well have used 
different address and name variations, based on the information they hold, and that may 
account as to why there are more than the number of searches Mr T expected to see. What 
is important to say, is there is no evidence to suggest Mr T and Mrs T have been financially 
disadvantaged by those searches, nor can I say with any certainty a hard credit search 
would result in less favourable lending terms - after all lenders take into account various 
criteria before coming to a decision whether to lend or not or what price that lending is set. If 
Mr T and Mrs T need more clarity on this, they should contact the relevant CRAs.
So here Im left to consider if the time taken by TMW to come to its decision not to lend was 
reasonable and I do have some sympathy with Mr T and Mrs T here. That said, it should be 
taken into account the period when the main delays occurred was between mid- December 
2020 towards late January 2021, when the broker was asked for further details on three 
properties in Mr Ts and Mrs Ts property portfolio. 
With that in mind Im not fully persuaded by Mr Ts argument it took TMW six months to 
come to a lending decision, I say this because it didnt have all the information it required 
from the broker to make a full credit assessment until mid-December 2020. 
This period of time was interrupted by the Christmas break and its reasonable to suggest 
the Covid restrictions at that time, could have also played a part here. That said I do agree 
TMW even so, could have dealt with the assessment quicker than it did, but it has 
apologised for that and paid Mr T and Mrs T £100 by way of an apology for the 
inconvenience. 
Its worth saying its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when delays like this 
occur but to ensure an apology is given and commensurate compensation is paid - Im 
satisfied TMW did that here. 
While Mr T and Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
TMW here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2022.
 Barry White
Ombudsman