DRN-4236032
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the valuation eSure Insurance Limited (eSure) provided after his car 
was declared a total loss.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident which rendered his car a total loss. He made a claim on 
his policy with eSure.
He said eSure made him an offer for total loss of his car, but he declined this. He says the 
offer is below what it would cost him to get a like for like replacement in the current market 
condition. 
Mr W complained to eSure who said it had valued his car in line with the approach used by 
our service and relied on motor trade guides in doing so. It said the guides provided 
valuations between £2,830 and £3,325 and that the average value was £2,945. It said it took 
an average of four motor trade guides and reached this valuation which was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr W wasnt happy with eSures response and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it. She recommended that eSure settle the claim by paying Mr W £3,059 as she 
used the valuations from three trade guides that we use rather than ones that eSure has 
used which arent in line with our approach. She thought this was a fairer settlement amount 
and recommended eSure should pay £3,059 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the 
original offer to the date of settlement. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr W says 
hes asking for a fair market value price for his car and the open market shows the average 
price is closer to £4,500. He says what has been offered isnt even close to the cheapest 
vehicle which was £3,500. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. I know Mr W will 
be disappointed, but we do have an established approach when it comes to complaints 
similar to Mr Ws. In this case, I think eSure has acted in line with our approach. 
I acknowledge eSure used slightly different trade guides. But having reviewed the guides 
used by our investigator, a settlement amount of £3,059 is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Ws policy says that eSure will pay the market value of the car i.e., the value the insured 
could reasonably be expected to sell their car for, on the open market, immediately before 
the accident. It goes on to say that, in doing so, it will rely on valuations obtained in 
motor-trade guides and that its assessment of the value will be based on cars of the same 
make and model which are of similar age, condition and mileage.
Its not my role to decide what the value of the car is but to decide whether esure made an 
offer which was fair and reasonable based on the evidence available to it. Assessing the 
value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations given in 
motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. And I must emphasise that I will only direct a business to increase its 
valuation if I consider that it is unfair.
eSure used four trade guides: Glasss, Parkers, CAP and Cazana and the valuations 
showed for each of these respectively as: £2,830, £3,325, £2,895 and £2,945. The average 
of these four is £2,998 although eSure says its £2,945 which is what it offered. 
In any case, in line with our approach, our investigator used Glasss, Cazoo and CAP and 
the average of these three guides shows £3,059. 
I dont consider that any of the valuations to be an outlier and the amount recommended by 
our investigator is within the range provided by those valuations. So, from what Ive seen, I 
consider the recommended amount of £3,059 to be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances as it is within the range of values provided by the guides. 
I appreciate Mr W has provided copies of adverts for similar cars which I have looked at. The 
values for cars of the same make and model were higher than eSures offer. So, I can see 
why Mr W feels that the offer is low. Nevertheless, we dont tend to find adverts as 
persuasive as the motor guides and the reason for this is because it is difficult to know what 
a car will actually sell for from the advert; and a vehicle may be sold for less than the 
advertised price especially with private sales.
Given all of this, I am satisfied that our investigator has looked at the approach our service 
takes to value the car in a fair and reasonable way. Shes recommended that eSure pay 
£3,059 plus 8% simple interest to settle the complaint in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. I think this is fair in the overall circumstances of the complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Ws complaint, eSure should:
Pay £3,059 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the initial offer it made to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about eSure Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman