DRN-4193008
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) wouldnt refund the 
money she paid to an investment firm.
What happened 
What Mrs H says:
Mrs H had an ISA with Halifax. On 17 November 2017, it had a balance of £51,713.95. Mrs 
H then made a payment for £40,000 to an investment firm  which I will call A. The payment 
was made at a branch of Halifax. Mrs H is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will 
refer to Mrs H as the complainant here.
Mrs H said shed made investments of £51,446 with A on 17 November 2017  of which the 
payment made from her account at Halifax was £40,000. She said she had been targeted by 
cold callers who were unregulated introducers. They persuaded her to invest with A. She 
wasnt an experienced investor and didnt have the expertise to assess the investment 
prospects of A. 
Mrs H said that A raised funds from investors but they werent used for the purposes they 
promised. A therefore defrauded hundreds of people.
She said Halifax provided no warnings to her when making the payment, and had they done 
so, she wouldnt have made it. Mrs H said Halifax should refund the money, plus 8% per 
annum simple interest.
What Halifax said:
Halifax said this was a civil dispute and not a scam  so it wasnt covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Code (CRM Code). The investment firm (A) existed as a company when 
Mrs H made the payment and A had the intention of investing her money. While the payment 
made by Mrs H was unusual, the branch carried out the necessary checks when she made 
it.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said A was a 
legitimate private limited company, incorporated in 2015, but then went into administration in 
May 2020. So  this couldnt be considered a scam, but a civil dispute. There wasnt any 
evidence of A operating a scam operation when Mrs H made the payment in 2017. It wasnt 
the role of Halifax to give Mrs H financial advice about the investment she was making.
But  he said we wouldve expected to see that the branch of Halifax made the necessary 
checks when Mrs H made the payment. He could see that the branch discussed the 
payment with Mrs H and signed off the checklist for it. He couldnt see the checklist. Even if 
Halifax had warned Mrs H about the investment, he was persuaded that she wouldve gone 
ahead anyway.
Given the passage of time, he wouldnt have expected Halifax to try to recover the money  
and suggested that Mrs H contact the appointed administrators to see if any funds could be 
paid back to her.
Mrs H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. She said (through 
her solicitors):
- Halifax shouldve provided warnings about the information she had been given by the 
introducer.
- Halifax couldve checked the credentials of the person who contacted Mrs H by 
checking with the FCAs register. This wouldve shown that he wasnt registered or 
qualified.
- Halifax shouldve been aware that the investment in question should only be sold to 
sophisticated investors and/or high net worth individuals  Mrs H was neither, and 
was 75 years old at the time. Mrs H had been told the investment was low risk. 
- It was argued that as A didnt make the investments that they said they would in its 
prospectus, this amounted to a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs H has lost money. Its not in question that she authorised and 
consented to the payments in this case. So - she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
In November 2017  when Mrs H made the payment to A - there were some circumstances 
where a bank should have taken additional steps before processing a payment to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. For example, there were some 
guidelines which should have been followed when older or vulnerable customers asked to 
make unusually large cash withdrawals or where someone appeared to be telling them what 
to do.
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to 
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a 
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes 
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify 
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. And the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was set up to provide protection for customers 
who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, and to reduce the occurrence of 
APP fraud  but the CRM Code came into operation after the payment in question. 
So, in broad terms, the checks required of firms when Mrs H made her payment in 
November 2017 were less than at later dates. But - I noted that the  British Standards 
Institution ( BSI) code for protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse came into effect on 31 October 2017  a few days before Mr H made her 
payment to A. So  I considered what that code said. 
The BSI code of practice gives recommendations for how banks can protect its customers 
from fraud and financial abuse, and it explains how to recognise consumers who might be at 
risk. It included several activities as examples of what might indicate fraud or financial 
abuse. As far as Mrs Hs payment was concerned, the relevant parts of the code said firms 
should be aware of:
Transfers to other accounts 
A withdrawal or payment for a large amount 
A payment or series of payments to a new payee 
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs H when she requested the payment, based on the expectations of banks 
in 2017. I need to consider whether Halifax did all that it ought to have done when Mrs H 
made the payment in the branch. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded Halifax should refund Mrs H the amount she lost.
 
Mrs H has said she was targeted by a person who acted as a financial adviser  and he/she 
advised her to invest in A. Mrs H told Halifax that shed contacted A herself and they 
appeared credible at the time.
I looked at what happened to A. It was a trading company when Mrs H made the payment in 
November 2017  as A lodged a confirmation statement at Companies House in August 
2017. And filed its annual accounts for the year ended 28 February 2018. It was only later 
when A went into difficulty  as it went into administration in May 2020. But - this decision 
does not hinge on the status of A at the time.
The crux of this complaint is what happened at the branch when Mrs H made the payment  
as there were some obligations on Halifax to carry out relevant checks, as Ive set out.
We asked to see the High Value Authorisation form (HVA) completed by the branch at the 
time of Mrs Hs visit. And we asked to see the details of the payment made. The HVA, 
completed by the manager, showed:
- The beneficiary of the payment was Mrs Hs account with A. It quoted Mrs Hs 
account number with A.
- The HVA form says the payment was out of character for the way Mrs H used the 
account (as it was an Individual Savings Account).
- It says the purpose of the payment was bond investment.
- It says a warning about scams was read out to Mrs H. This said please confirm 
you are not making the withdrawal because you have been told to do so by a third 
party(if that is the case) your money could be at risk. And I can see Mrs H 
signed the clause to say she understood that.
- The form was signed by the manager and he confirmed the transaction was 
genuine.
The evidence shows that the payment was referred to and authorised by a manager. He 
considered it to be unusual compared to normal activity. I looked at Mrs Hs ISA statements  and these show there was no activity during the previous 12 months  other than interest 
being credited to the account. So  it was not a normal thing for her to do. 
But equally, it was a savings account  and so we would not expect there to have been a lot 
of payments activity on it, as the purpose of a savings account is to accumulate funds, rather 
than making payments. But having said that, the form indicates that Halifax asked Mrs H 
more questions about the payment  as it was for a high amount. So, Halifax did the right 
thing  as they checked the payment with Mrs H.
The form shows the investment was into a bond  so Mrs H told the manager that. It would 
seem a reasonable thing for a customer to move savings from an ISA into a bond  if she felt 
that would get better returns. So  I can see why Halifax considered that to be reasonable.
And  I can see that Halifax read out a scams warning to Mrs H, and she signed to say she 
understood it. 
Mrs H has argued that Halifax shouldve asked more about the investment and whether it 
was suitable for her circumstances  but I dont consider it was the role of Halifax to do that, 
as they werent advising her on the investment. She also argues that Halifax shouldve 
asked why she was investing in A, who advised her to do so, and what their qualifications 
were  and checked those out. But  I dont consider its reasonable to have expected 
Halifax to do that  in the context of the checks they needed to do at the time. 
Mrs H has also argued that Halifax shouldve questioned her more about A, and she 
expected Halifax to have conducted due diligence on A  in terms of its performance and 
investments. But here, I dont think it was the role of Halifax to do that. Halifax were making 
a payment and didnt have an obligation to go further in the way Mrs H has argued.  
I noted also that the payment was to Mrs Hs account with the recipient bank. So  that 
information wouldve supported Halifaxs decision to release the payment. I say that as it 
wouldve been reasonable for Halifax to consider there was little chance of the payment 
being misappropriated if it was in favour of Mrs H personally. 
Recovery:
We expect firms to attempt to recover funds from recipient banks where a scam has taken 
place. But here, Mrs H complained to Halifax in October 2022  and given the passage of 
time since the payment was made, there wasnt any chance the funds couldve been 
retrieved. So - I dont think Halifax had any obligation to try to recover the funds after such a 
period.
I was very sorry to learn that Mrs H has lost money. But Im satisfied that Halifax carried out 
the necessary checks when Mrs H made the payment. Therefore, Im not asking Halifax to 
do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman