DRN-1569440
The complaint
Miss S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited further damaged her car when it 
repaired it after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Ss car had damage to one side. Admirals approved garage repaired this. But two 
months later, Miss S noticed that the headlight on the other side of the car was loose. The 
garage then glued this in place, but Miss S was unhappy with this. She wanted a missing clip 
replaced. Admiral said it wasnt responsible for this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the garage 
had removed the headlight when it made the repairs. So he thought it likely that the garage 
had caused the damage. He thought Admiral should repair the headlight and pay Miss S 
£100 compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Admiral replied that the repairer hadnt damaged the headlight. It asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The approved repairer initially said it had removed the headlight when it repaired the 
bumper. The manager said a clip had snapped off. This wasnt accessible from outside, 
which suggested that it could have occurred during repairs. He also said the damage could 
have been caused by the accident. He said a hairline fracture, that wouldnt have been 
visible, could have worsened over time. 
The repairer later said the headlight wasnt damaged in the incident and it wouldnt have 
been put back loosely. 
Admirals in-house engineer reviewed the damage to the headlight. He said it was unrelated 
to the claim or the repair as it couldnt have been refitted during the rebuild in the condition it 
was in. He thought it must have been damaged after the repairs were completed. 
So Admiral had to consider contradictory views from the approved repairer. Its own engineer 
said the problem occurred after the repairs were completed. This concurs with the garages 
first view, that the clip could have been damaged in the accident or during repairs and then 
the problem developed over three months until Miss S noticed it. 
So I dont think Admiral has reasonably justified its decision that the damage to the headlight 
was unrelated to the accident or to the repairs. And so I think it was unfair for it to decline to 
repair the headlight.
Putting things right
I think Admiral should now repair the headlight. And, as this has caused Miss S trouble and 
upset, I think Admiral should also pay her £100 compensation. This is in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to fix Miss Ss headlight and pay her £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman