DRN-4010393
The complaint
Miss K complains about the way BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited treated her, when 
she tried to settle the outstanding balance of a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In June 2021, Miss K spoke to a dealership about changing her car. In order to do so, Miss K 
needed to settle a hire purchase agreement with BMW, that she had in place for her existing 
car, which I call car one. It was then Miss Ks plan to take out a brand new agreement with 
used car, which Ill call car two.
A few months later, BMW provided a settlement quote to Miss K, which told her the amount 
she had to repay to end her agreement for car one. Miss K says she asked for another 
settlement quote a few weeks afterwards and handed that quote to the dealership.
Once the finance was agreed for car two, the dealer sent a payment to BMW, to repay the 
outstanding balance owed for car one. This payment matched the settlement quote that 
Miss K had provided to the dealer. However, BMW say that Miss K had given the dealer an 
incorrect settlement amount, which meant she had underpaid by around £2,700.
Miss K repaid the outstanding balance owed to BMW for car one in May 2022, some four 
months after it was due. But, because that agreement wasnt settled, BMW applied adverse 
information about Miss Ks loan, to the records held with credit reference agencies. 
BMW also disputed that they had sent a settlement figure to Miss K with the incorrect 
amount. And in light of the underpayment from Miss K, BMW say this led them to terminate 
the agreement for car two. Although, Miss K has retained the use that car.
Miss K complained to BMW about the adverse information recorded on her credit file and 
that her agreement for car two had been terminated. BMW didnt change their approach, but 
said they would allow Miss K to keep car two and arrange a repayment plan, if she applied to 
a court for a suspended return of goods order. Miss K didnt accept that and referred her 
case to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks case and concluded that BMW had treated her 
fairly. He found that BMWs contact records with Miss K didnt include the settlement figure 
she had relied upon and that the dealer had followed Miss Ks advice. So, he said BMW 
were able to update her credit file with adverse information. 
The investigator also concluded that BMW hadnt made an error, when they terminated the 
agreement for car two. And where BMW added the interest that Miss K was due to pay, had 
the loan lasted the full term.
Miss K didnt agree and said it was unfair of BMW to have ended the agreement for car two, 
because it was separate to car one. The investigator didnt change his findings and Miss Ks 
case has now been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ks car was supplied to her under a regulated hire purchase agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints about these sorts of contracts.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did BMW treat Miss K 
fairly when they recorded the adverse information and terminated the second hire purchase 
agreement? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
There is a dispute between Miss K and BMW over the settlement quote that Miss K used, 
when she tried to end the hire purchase agreement for car one. Miss K says she was sent 
an email from BMW, containing a settlement quote at the end of December 2021. BMW say 
they didnt send a settlement quote to Miss K in December 2021 and that the format and 
detail within the document she has provided is incorrect.
To help me decide whats fair here, Ive looked at the document Miss K provided to the 
dealer, as well as BMWs contact records with Miss K. 
Having done so, I can see that BMW generated a settlement quote on 26 November 2021 
and sent it to Miss K on the same day. Additionally, Miss K acknowledges receiving that 
quote in November 2021.
Ive looked at a copy of the quote and it says that Miss K needed to pay £10,552.16 to end 
her agreement for car one. BMWs quote also lists the interest rebate applied by BMW to 
reach the settlement figure.
The paperwork Miss K relied upon shows a settlement quote dated 23 December 2021. In 
this document, the settlement figure is £7,323.92 and the interest rebate matches the figure 
from BMWs quote a month previously. 
From looking at the two documents, I can see that there are several differences with the 
fonts used and the settlement timeframes are inconsistent. The total settlement amounts are 
also notably different, where the figure Miss K used was around £3,000 less. I think this 
difference is stark, considering Miss Ks monthly payment was £228.24 and the documents 
are dated month apart.
Furthermore, BMWs contact records dont show that a settlement figure was generated in 
December 2021. Although I acknowledge what Miss K has told us, I think BMWs records 
are persuasive, because they show when she was sent accurate information about the figure 
needed to end her hire purchase agreement.
On balance, I dont think BMW sent a settlement figure to Miss K in December 2021. I think 
there are several inconsistencies between the document Miss K has provided and the quote 
BMW have shown that they sent her in November 2021. So, I dont think it was reasonable 
for Miss K to have relied on the settlement figure she says BMW sent to her in December 2021.
Ive also considered if the dealer made an error here. But, Miss K says the dealer paid BMW 
the amount she had told them to. Although I accept it would have been prudent for the 
dealer to have double checked with BMW, I think they followed Miss Ks instructions, based 
on a document she had supplied.
In all the circumstances, I think BMW treated Miss K fairly when they produced a settlement 
quote in November 2021. And when the full payment wasnt received, I think BMW were able 
to reflect what they had found, by updating the information held about Miss Ks agreement 
with credit reference agencies. So, I think it would be unfair for me to ask BMW to remove 
that information now.
Ive thought about BMWs termination of the hire purchase agreement for car two and the 
balance they have asked Miss K to repay. 
On page five of Miss Ks hire purchase agreement with BMW for car two, it lists the events 
where BMW can end the agreement. Section six, part (l) says BMW can terminate an 
agreement when:
you break any other agreement you have with us or any of our Group Companies 
and as a result we or our Group Company become entitled to terminate that other 
agreement.
Ive found that BMW hadnt caused the confusion over the settlement figure. It seems from 
BMWs notes that they doubted the authenticity of the settlement quote document Miss K 
says was sent to her. And that it was this, along with the arrears built up on the agreement 
for car one, that led to them terminating the agreement for car two.
Having thought carefully about what both sides have said, I think Miss K had allowed arrears 
to be built up on her agreement, since she attempted to end it in January 2022. Ive also 
seen that those arrears werent satisfied until Miss K made a payment in May 2022. So, it 
follows that as Miss K breached the contract she had with BMW for car one, they were able 
to consider taking further steps for the hire purchase agreement for car two.
Overall, while I accept that Miss K found it troubling when BMW ended the agreement for car 
two, I think the terms and conditions of that agreement allowed BMW to do so. In light of this, 
I think BMW have treated Miss K fairly here.
Ive also seen from section six of Miss Ks agreement with BMW, that is covers the amounts 
owed when an agreement is ended. It says:
We will have the right to end this agreement, after sending you any notices required 
by law if any of the events listed in clause 7 below occur and you do not remedy 
them within the required period. If this agreement is ended by us, you must pay us on 
demand the following sums:
(a) all arrears, Repayments, interest and other sums due to us at the date of 
termination.
Against this background, I think BMW were able to add interest to the balance of that 
agreement. So, I dont think BMW have treated Miss K unfairly, when they added interest to 
the balance, after the agreement for car two was terminated.
Im aware that Miss K still has an outstanding balance owed to BMW under the agreement for car two. Miss K has previously told us that she still has use of that car. And BMW say 
there may be certain conditions whereby they may allow her to keep it and start to make 
repayments again.
I make no finding on the fate of the car, given that Ive not found in Miss Ks favour in this 
complaint. However, Ill leave it to BMW to decide what they are prepared to do. 
Whatever BMW decides, I remind them of their responsibility to treat Miss Ks financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. This will mean looking at Miss Ks 
income and expenditure details when talking about the options they are able to offer to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman