DRN-3462656
The complaint
Mrs P complains that an adviser from Axa (subsequently Friends Life and now part of Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited) failed to take into account that her existing NatWest Life whole 
of life policy was subject to an inappropriate type of trust, when he advised her to take out 
further term assurance and critical illness cover in 2009.
She has previously made a separate complaint that Aviva, who administered the NatWest 
Life policy in 2004, failed to notice there was an absolute trust  and allowed her to gain the 
impression that she had successfully amended the beneficiaries. Im addressing all Mrs Ps 
complaint points against Aviva in this decision. She is represented by her husband Mr P.
What happened
1997: Original sale of the existing NatWest policy and trust
Mrs P and her ex-husband Mr C were each advised to take out a National Westminster 
(NatWest) Life reviewable whole of life policy including critical illness and total and 
permanent disability cover by an adviser at her bank in July 1997. According to the bank, the 
reason for this meeting was to discuss family protection following the birth of their two 
children. (The recommendation was entered onto the family protection and serious illness 
sections of its Balanced Planner document, rather than the loan protection section.)
The banks adviser wasnt employed by NatWest Life (which has since been taken over by 
Aviva), and Im not considering his actions in this decision. The bank denies that this policy 
was a requirement of any mortgage, and says that Mrs P and Mr C had a mortgage (and 
associated cover) with another bank at that time. (The policies recommended also werent 
for a specific term which would normally be sold to fit in with the length of a mortgage.)
Each policy was written in trust with Mrs P and Mr C as joint trustees, and each other as sole 
beneficiary. Absolute trusts were used, meaning the beneficiaries cant be changed. It is 
common ground between Mrs P and the bank that a flexible trust should have been used 
instead. Mrs Ps policy had £148,000 life cover and £54,447 critical illness/total & permanent 
disability cover, both with annual indexation at National Average Earnings. It has a (small) 
ongoing investment value. The policy terms said that NatWest would review whether the 
premiums could sustain the level of benefits to be provided, one month before the 10th 
anniversary and each fifth anniversary after that. If they couldnt, the options were to reduce 
the benefits (or the indexation), or increase the premiums accordingly.
1999: Sale of the Scottish Provident policy
In December 1999 Mrs P and Mr C also took out a joint decreasing term (or earlier critical 
illness) policy with Scottish Provident. Mr P says this was following a house move and 
increase in mortgage. Again that is not something for which Aviva is responsible. The sum 
assured was £115,592, stated to reduce in line with the capital outstanding on a repayment 
mortgage until December 2020, with a total and permanent disability benefit of £62,789. 
Additionally, it appears there was a family income benefit payable on death or earlier 
terminal illness of £19,121pa, increasing with inflation until ending on December 2015.
The features of these two policies suggest that the decreasing term assurance would have 
been taken out to support a repayment mortgage, and the family income benefit was  as its 
name suggests  to replace lost income if something serious happened to Mr P or Mrs C. 
Mr P and Mrs C later divorced and in November 2003 Scottish Provident confirmed it had 
removed Mr C as a life assured. The term of this cover was later extended by five years.
2004: Amendment of the NatWest Life trust
At Mrs Ps request in November 2004 Aviva (in its role administering the NatWest Life policy) 
then sent her a deed form to change the beneficiaries of the trust around her whole of life 
policy to her children. She returned the witnessed deed form to vary a flexible trust, but as 
the trust was an absolute trust it wasnt possible to change beneficiaries  and Aviva didnt 
inform Mrs P of this. On top of the original trust document (which reads Once you have 
chosen the person or persons who is to benefit under the Trust you cannot change your 
mind), Mrs P had handwritten: Changed to be in trust for [children].
2008: Sale of the Axa policy
Mrs P subsequently married Mr P and they sought financial advice from Axa (Mr Ps 
employer). Following a transfer of business from Friends Life (Axas successors) under Part 
VII of the Financial Services And Markets Act 2000 on 1 October 2017, Aviva now accepts 
responsibility for the Axa advisers actions. In December 2008 the adviser contacted Scottish 
Provident to ask for details of Mrs Ps term assurance policy. Scottish Provident responded 
to confirm the policy was not written under trust, and gave a policy summary.
Aviva (as administrator of the NatWest Life policy) has also said that it received a letter from 
Mrs P dated February 2009 asking it to send the Axa adviser details of her policy. It says it 
replied that her plan was under trust and that it didnt specify the type of trust in place. Mr P 
says that the Axa adviser made handwritten comments on a copy of the earlier banks 
Balanced Planner document from the 1997 sale, confirming that hed established Mrs P had 
a Scottish Provident, NatWest and Swiss Life policy (for income protection).
The Axa adviser carried out a fact find on 30 July 2009 recording:
- Mr P earned about £61,000pa and Mrs P about £100,000pa, plus £9,500 income 
from a buy-to-let and £10,000pa maintenance from her ex-husband.
- Some minor issues were noted in their medical history for underwriting purposes.
- They had three dependent children.
- They planned to retire at age 62 (Mr P) and 60 (Mrs P) - both in 2029.
- They had a £105,000 interest-only mortgage on their main residence worth
£525,000, due for repayment in 2019. 
- Mrs P owned the £270,000 buy-to-let property with a £230,000 mortgage. [Mr P has 
said in response to the provisional decison that this was her former home with Mr C]
- They had about £120,000 in savings and £39,000 shares (and some endowment 
policies originally used to support a mortgage, but no further details are given).
-Life cover: They didnt want to protect liabilities (other than mortgages) or loss of 
income on death, as they thought these areas were covered.
-Critical illness: They only wanted to review this in respect of the mortgage amount.
-Income protection: They wouldnt be able to protect their income in the event of 
illness and also wanted to review this.
-Estate planning: They wanted to review these arrangements later.
Two days before the adviser had emailed this to Mr P: [Mrs Ps] Nat West Review: The 
papers from Nat West do not confirm what the premium would need to be following the 
review. I have asked them to send me some information.
A specific section of the fact find (C3) detailing their existing cover (at least, in relation to 
mortgage protection) should have been completed. This was left blank and Mr and Mrs P 
then signed at the end of this document to confirm the details were correct. The adviser also completed a shortfall analysis document on the basis of Mr and Mrs P having no existing life 
or critical illness cover. Comments on this document included, with my emphasis:
At this stage you did not wish to protect this [buy to let] mortgage. Your priority is to 
ensure that the mortgage on your main residence is properly protected in the event that 
either of you should die or suffer critical illness without depleting the amounts available 
for family protection.
Whilst the adviser calculated that they would need additional family income of £30,000 if one 
of them died, he explained: Provided your mortgage is properly covered there is no need for 
additional life cover to provide the specified family protection of £30,000 p.a. due to the level 
of death benefits provided by your respective employers. This should be reviewed should 
you change employers in the future.
They then completed a fact find update document on 3 November 2009 as further time had 
passed. Again the sections to record existing cover for income on death, critical illness and 
mortgage protection were left blank and Mr and Mrs P signed at the end. The adviser had 
emailed Mr P the day before saying as follows:
You had also informed me that your Buy-to-Let property has been sold and that the level 
of cover under the existing endowment plans cannot be reduced to make them more 
efficient savings plans...
I will supply figures for the IHT [inheritance tax] liability based on existing employee death 
benefits and also assuming that there are none. I will also investigate with NatWest Life to 
see if the existing whole-of-life plan that [Mrs P] has can be amended so that it can be 
used to reduce the impact of Inheritance Tax on your children.
The advisers first suitability letter of 20 November 2009 recommended as follows:
your immediate need was for Income Protection and Mortgage Protection 
Planning. Estate Planning was identified as a further need and we have agreed to 
address this at the next review
Income protection was recommended for Mr P (Mrs P had sufficient arrangements).
Decreasing term assurance was appropriate for a repayment [not interest-only] 
mortgage of £105,000. [My emphasis]
You each have some policies that existed before you married and that were put in 
place for previous mortgages. The levels of cover are not suitable and neither are the 
terms of the cover. You will retain the endowments that you have a savings plans. 
When these mature if you reduce your mortgage balance significantly you could 
consider reducing the mortgage cover that we are about to put in place
He recommended further joint decreasing term assurance with earlier critical illness 
cover to support the mortgage he recorded of £105,000, with a 15-year guaranteed 
premium term until 2024. 
Mr and Mrs P completed the application forms for these policies in December 2009.
Next to do you wish to write your life cover under trust?, yes had been crossed out and 
replaced with no and please discuss. Mrs P confirmed on the application that including 
the new proposal she would have £337,711 life and £188,178 critical illness cover in total 
(stated to include employers death in service cover, but exclude policies she intended to 
cancel). That suggests the assumed existing cover was £232,711 life / £83,178 critical 
illness: consistent with the NatWest Life benefits indexed at National Average Earnings to 
2009, without the Scottish Provident or any employer benefits.
In April 2010 the adviser informing his compliance department that They have taken a long time to decide what they wanted to cover. He was required to send an amended suitability 
letter on 27 April 2010 which explained:
Although the term of your mortgage only extends until 2019 you anticipate that you will 
have to extend the mortgage term beyond this date. You are planning to buy another buy- 
to-let property and this will divert funds away from repaying the mortgage on your main 
residence. You therefore expect to retain a mortgage on your home until 2025 and 
therefore requested that the life & Critical Illness cover [is] for a 15 year term.
If you anticipated repaying your mortgage steadily over this term and arranged a 
repayment mortgage we could have recommended a decreasing basis for your life or 
critical illness cover. However, you prefer the flexibility of an interest only mortgage as this 
allows you to divert a larger percentage of your income towards your buy to let project. 
Accordingly a level cover is most appropriate as this provides a constant level of cover 
regardless of the actual repayment schedule.[my emphasis] 
The rest of this letter repeated the mistake of referring to the recommended policy being a 
£105,000 decreasing term  it was level term including total permanent disability cover.
2015: Mrs Ps accident
In June 2015 Mrs P suffered permanent injury which resulted in her being unable to work, so 
she attempted to claim the Aviva (NatWest Life) critical illness benefit. Aviva established that 
the nature of Mrs Ps injury (a traumatic brain injury) wasnt one of the defined illnesses on 
the policy, and she wouldnt at that time meet the conditions for it to qualify as total and 
permanent disability. The latter was defined under the policy in relation to activities of daily 
living, such as transfer and mobility, dressing, toileting and eating.
Mrs P was successful in claiming £52,297 on the Scottish Provident term or earlier critical 
illness policy. Her claim on the Axa policy was initially declined in 2016, but £105,000 was 
paid out in February 2018. She continued to pay premiums to NatWest Life, but became 
aware it was held under an absolute trust, meaning any successful claim would be paid out 
to Mr C. This formed her first complaint to Aviva, which Ill set below. 
She also sought legal advice in an attempt to change the beneficiaries of the trust, and the 
advice was that this would attract further costs in excess of £10,000 and might not be 
successful. Those costs Mrs P did incur are the subject of a separate complaint to the bank 
who originally sold the NatWest Life policy, which Im not discussing here. 
My first provisional decision of 25 May 2021: the administration of the NatWest policy
Mr and Mrs P complained that instead of sending her forms in 2004 to change the 
beneficiaries, Aviva (as NatWest Life) should have told Mrs P that this wasnt possible.
Aviva responded that it wasnt responsible for its sale and therefore the type of trust used (a 
point I agree with). However it accepted it should not have issued or accepted the deed of 
assignment in 2004. It agreed it should have identified from the limited records available 
(from when the policy was held with NatWest Life) that there was an absolute trust. And had 
it done so, it was more than likely this matter would have been resolved many years ago by 
Mrs P. However it continued to think that opportunities were also missed by Mrs P and her 
advisers at the time and subsequently.
One of those advisers was, of course, employed by Axa  and Aviva coincidentally became 
responsible for his actions at around the time it was dealing with the first complaint. Mr P 
pointed this out to Aviva at the time, but rather than agreeing to include that issue in its 
investigation Aviva asked Mr P to refer that complaint to a different department.In my 25 May 2021 provisional decision and subsequent 1 July 2021 email I summarised 
Mr Ps arguments into three main ways Mrs P (or her children) might have suffered a 
financial loss for which Aviva, as administrator of the NatWest Life policy, could potentially 
be held responsible:
1.There might be a claim on the NatWest Life policy which is paid to the absolute 
trust, from which Mr C then benefits instead of Mrs Ps children.
I decided that if Mrs P did meet the conditions to successfully claim under the policy 
(which didnt on the face of it appear likely) it wasnt appropriate for the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to continue an investigation into this area until she had made 
contact with Mr C (directly or through our service) to establish whether he was 
prepared to yield the proceeds of any claim to her. This was due to the expectation 
that a complainant will make reasonable attempts to mitigate their loss.
2.Mrs P has lost money paying premiums for a policy that she doesnt consider 
she could have directly benefited from.
I decided that if the policy itself (rather than the trust around the policy) was suitable 
for Mrs P in 1997  noting here that its suitability was the banks rather than Avivas 
responsibility  the most likely thing Mrs P would have done was taken out the same 
policy out under a flexible trust which would have allowed the beneficiaries to be 
amended. So she actually paid the same premiums for the first seven years that she 
likely would have done, had the bank (as is common ground) not mis-sold her an 
absolute trust in the first place.
In respect of the period from 2004 onwards:
- on the one hand there was Avivas admitted clerical error in administering the 
NatWest Life policy, which constituted maladministration but wasnt governed by 
by any specific regulations or codes;
- I also considered that Mrs P shared some responsibility for the error going 
unnoticed in 2004 when she wrote on her copy of the original deed which stated 
the beneficiaries couldnt be amended, that she had in fact amended them; 
- but ultimately it was a problem set in motion by the use of the apparently wrong 
trust by the bank seven years earlier. There were well-understood regulatory 
obligations on the bank to provide suitable advice which was my overriding point.
I considered the possibility of upholding the complaint by apportioning some (but not 
all) responsibility to Aviva for the lost opportunity of Mrs P not being able to take out
a more appropriate policy after 2004. She would potentially have cancelled the 
NatWest Life policy and replaced it with one which may have had different terms and 
conditions, and which may or may not have paid out for her condition in 2015. So  
was careful not to give Mrs P the total benefit of hindsight on this point.
I concluded the most I could potentially award in a complaint about Avivas 
administration of the NatWest Life policy is a refund of the premiums Mrs P had paid 
from around November 2004. I thought the rest of any loss Mrs P might have 
suffered from missing out on a possible claim on a policy with another provider would 
normally have been her loss to bear. However, Mr P hd also made a third argument:
3.If Aviva, when administering the NatWest Life policy in 2009, had told the Axa 
adviser its policy was under absolute trust, Mrs P may have been advised to 
cancel it in favour of a larger Axa policy  which we know would have paid out 
for her condition.
It appeared the Axa adviser may have made an assumption when accepting Avivas 
under trust answer that the policy was under a flexible trust. Avivas non-specific 
answer was factually correct and not uncommon to give. And any assumption the Axa adviser made that it was a flexible trust would also be correct the vast majority of 
the time, as absolute trusts are uncommon  but it was an assumption nonetheless. 
I couldnt fairly say that Aviva misinformed the Axa adviser in 2009. But it was 
arguable that the answer under trust should lead the Axa adviser to ask the 
policyholder for the actual trust documentation if they needed to see it. So I thought 
Mrs P may have more prospects for success when complaining about what 
happened in 2009 if she made that complaint about the Axa advisers actions, rather 
than Avivas administration of her her policy. And I wouldnt yet finalise a partial 
award against Aviva, when that would likely prompt a further complaint about the Axa 
advisers actions in 2009 which could then be dealt with at the same time.
My second provisional decision of 22 December 2021: the subsequent Axa advice
Mr and Mrs P then made the second complaint that the Axa adviser failed to follow up on his 
enquiries with NatWest Life (Aviva) when advising him and Mrs P between 2008-10, and 
missed that the policy was under an absolute trust. They say he should instead have made 
the Axa recommendation for a higher level of benefit to replace the NatWest policy.
In its responses Aviva explained the basis for the advisers recommendations as Ive set out 
above and that Mr and Mrs P had agreed with those recommendations. It accepted that the 
Axa adviser had agreed to email NatWest Life (Aviva) about Mrs Ps policy to see if it could 
be altered to reduce the IHT impact. But the information on file showed they were going to 
address any IHT liability at the next review. As the priority at the first review was mortgage 
and income protection, it didnt feel the NatWest policy was relevant to this sale.
Protection advice
It appeared from the background set out above that the Axa adviser likely knew in 2009 that:
- Mrs P had a whole of life (not term assurance) policy with NatWest, also providing 
critical illness and total & permanent disability cover. The paperwork said this policy 
was held under trust, but not which type of trust.
- Mrs P also had a Scottish Provident decreasing term assurance policy  suggesting 
she had a repayment mortgage at one point in the past. But she also had endowment 
policies likely taken out at other times to support an interest-only mortgage.
- Mr and Mrs Ps main residential mortgage was stated to be for £105,000 on an 
interest-only basis and Mr and Mrs P were using their wider savings (of more than 
the mortgage amount) in a mortgage offset arrangement. Those (undetailed) 
endowment policies had been repurposed as savings vehicles. 
- Mr and Mrs P werent looking for advice to repay the mortgage at the end of the term; 
only on how they could best protect their mortgage in the event of death or earlier 
critical illness (or total & permanent disability).
I then addressed which of Mrs Ps existing policies were within the scope of this advice:
The decreasing term Scottish Provident policy wasnt suitable to protect an interest 
only mortgage. As its value wasnt included on the Axa application form, I thought it 
was either expected to be cancelled or retained to provide cover for Mrs Ps children.
I said the latter because another part of this policy already provided income from 
death until 2015  so the value of that would reduce the later a claim was made. 
Essentially, the term assurance component would do the same, up to December 
2020. The relevance of this was that by 2015 Mrs Ps eldest sons would have passed 
age 18, and by 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps youngest daughter would have reached age 12.
That left the NatWest Life level whole of life policy, which also seems to have been 
taken out when Mrs P and Mr C approached their bank in 1997 for advice on protecting their young family  i.e. it was not for the purposes of mortgage protection.
The Axa adviser referred to none of Mrs Ps existing life/critical illness policies being 
available to protect the £105,000 mortgage  and its clear he knew about the NatWest Life 
policy as well as the Scottish Provident policy. He also wrote on the shortfall analysis 
document that Mr and Mrs P didnt want their mortgage protection planning to deplet[e] 
the amounts available for family protection. 
Mrs Ps employment benefits didnt include critical illness or total permanent disability cover, 
which would come within the term family protection and were provided by the Natwest Life 
policy. Either way it seemed that the adviser had picked up on a wish to retain existing 
insurance policies which were in place for family protection, rather than mortgage purposes. 
And I considered that included the NatWest Life policy. Whether or not Mrs P intended to 
retain the Scottish Provident policy, it wasnt suitable for their interest-only mortgage and had 
now paid out on a claim, rendering this point somewhat moot. 
So in summary, I didnt consider the Axa adviser was at fault for not looking further into 
Avivas reply that the NatWest policy was in trust, if that wasnt a policy he needed to 
consider to meet the purpose of the advice sought  to protect their mortgage.
Inheritance tax (IHT) advice
Whole of life policies are often put in trust, amongst other reasons, to meet an inheritance 
tax bill on death. Given that hed been told Mrs Ps policy was in trust, and didnt know it 
was an absolute trust, I wasnt sure what the advisers comment that he would see if the 
policy could be amended refers to. But his remarks to his compliance department suggest 
Mr and Mrs P were taking a long time to make decisions (and I think they would have been 
mindful of this too). So the adviser likely deferred his IHT investigation in order to ensure the 
protection arrangements were not delayed further. 
So in summary here, I was also not persuaded the adviser acted unreasonably in not 
pursuing the IHT issue when it hadnt been identified as an immediate need. He had 
sufficient reason to separate his IHT enquiry from the recommendations he was making, 
given that Mr and Mrs Ps position  as explained in his letter and not contradicted by them  
was that the NatWest Life policy protected a different area to their mortgage.
I also wasnt satisfied the Axa adviser was later responsible if Mr and Mrs P didnt pursue the 
IHT matter. A subsequent review meeting is a two-way process  both parties would need to 
be willing to engage with it. So it was equally open to Mr and Mrs P to go back to the adviser 
to cover those issues theyd agree to review later. It may be that they went elsewhere, but if 
not and theyd been expecting Axa to do a further review, they were free to ask.
This meant that in respect of both complaints against Aviva I only intended to ask it to refund 
Mrs P the premiums she paid to her NatWest Life policy from December 2004 to the date of 
settlement. I wasnt requiring it to add interest to the refund when the naure of their 
complaint was that she would most likely have spent these premiums on another policy. But 
I also thought £500 should be paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by Avivas 
maladministration of the NatWest Life policy.
Responses to the second provisional decision
Mr P gave a partial response on his wifes behalf on 7 January 2022. This included a full 
copy of the email hed alluded to from the Axa adviser explaining that there were problems 
with Avivas IT system for the NatWest Life policy, which he says explain why the advisers 
recommendations took so long to produce. The email shows the adviser was trying to find 
out when the policy reviews took place and how this affected the level of cover. It also shows that options were being explored to include the Scottish Provident policy as part of the 
mortgage cover. So, he says finding out full information about the NatWest Life policy also 
was key to the advisers recommendation.
Mr P also said at this point that the outstanding Mortgage at the time [2008] was £210k, 
£105k representing Mr Ps proportion. He requested further time to give more thought to the 
matter. Meanwhile, Aviva responded to reiterate that the covering letter under which it sent 
Mrs P the deed to appoint new beneficiaries in 2004 said, [it was] unable to act as your 
legal adviser. It is therefore important you ensure your own legal advisers are satisfied that 
using the standard documentation provided will meet all of your objectives.
Mr and Mrs P then responded further on 25 March 2022. In summary, their new points were 
as follows:
In respect of the original sale of the NatWest Life policy, I was wrong to say that both 
Mrs P and Mr C were beneficiaries. They maintain that they inferred this policy was a 
condition of what was their first joint (NatWest) mortgage in 1997, and the nature of 
the trust was so unusual it should have been explained fully.
The Axa advice was triggered by the birth of Mr and Mrs Ps first child, and took 
some time to complete as either they or the adviser had to travel 200 miles to meet. 
The advice was on protecting the £105,000 segment of their interest only mortgage 
because Mrs Ps protection policies were more than adequate cover for the other 
£95,000 segment and her other buy to let investment. 
Mrs Ps existing Scottish Provident and NatWest Life policies protected the £230,000 
Northern Rock mortgage on the home she purchased on divorce in 2002, which 
became a buy to let. There was no intention to cancel any policy as a further buy to 
let was purchased in 2012.
As a single mother with (from 2008) further family responsibilities, if Mrs P had known 
Mr C was the beneficiary of the NatWest policy she would have either have 
increased the cover of existing policies (Scottish Provident) or taken out a new policy 
in order to provide the mortgage and Income protection she considered she had at 
the time. This cover would have paid out following her accident in June 2015.
Aviva had failed to inform them that automatic indexation on the NatWest Life policy 
had stopped and this policy should have been reviewed either in 2004 or 2012. Such 
reviews would have given an opportunity to increase cover elsewhere.
They would like to know what now happens with their complaint against the bank for 
the 1997 sale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made further comments following my second provisional decision, which 
Ive considered in full. Avivas comments about the covering letter to the deed it sent Mrs P 
into 2004 aren't new - I considered these points at the time I issued my first provisional 
decision. And I don't think directing Mrs P elsewhere for legal advice is an excuse for 
providing an inappropriate deed form to amend beneficiaries which couldnt be amended. 
I did however note that Mrs P still retained a copy of the original deed (which she wrote on at 
the time) - and as that deed said that the beneficiaries couldn't be changed, it would have 
been reasonable for her to query this again with Aviva. Or, to take up the suggestion of 
taking her own advice for that reason. That is why I'm not holding Aviva responsible for a 
potential missed opportunity to claim on a different policy Mrs P might have taken out in 2004. I'm only requiring it to refund the premiums (without interest) that she paid to a policy 
within an inflexible trust that no longer met her needs, from that point onwards.
It's possible that Mrs P might have been in a different position by now if, in order to get out of 
the absolute trust in 2004, she had fortuitously taken out a different policy to the NatWest 
Life one which happened to have terms and conditions that were more favourable to a claim 
for her current condition. But to the extent that Mrs P is worse off because of this, I think she 
had an opportunity herself to query how it was possible to change beneficiaries that the 
documentation itself said couldn't be changed at the time. So the award I'm making in this 
case acknowledges missed opportunities here on both Mrs P and Aviva's part.
I accept that some of the delays in the Axa advice may have been from trying to get the 
information from Aviva - although it doesn't seem to be the only reason. As Mr P says, the 
adviser was exploring the extent to which any of the existing policies could be used to 
provide cover, and each meeting required some logistics to organise. However I don't accept 
that these enquiries demonstrate that, in the advisers final recommendation, it was possible 
to repurpose the Scottish Provident policy  because its decreasing term didnt match the 
interest-only mortgage. And the evidence points to Mr and Mrs P wanting to retain the 
NatWest Life policy for family protection; not for the mortgage.
The advisers suitability letter stands as a record of the discussions held. Hes required to 
send it by the regulator for the reason that Mr and Mrs P can then dispute anything in it that 
isnt accurate. So I think its reasonable for me to conclude from this that:
The adviser was only asked to advise protecting a mortgage of £105,000. I note from 
the statements Mr P has provided that statements for the other £95,000 mortgage 
segment were self-contained under a different reference number - and he and Mrs P 
seem to have regarded each part of the mortgage as their portion.
Had the adviser been made aware the mortgage was actually £200,000, I would 
expect that to have been acknowledged in the fact find or his recommendation. It was 
an opportunity for him to recommend a higher level of cover  or to explain why cover 
was not needed for it.
The advisers comment that You each have some policies ...put in place for previous 
mortgages. The levels of cover are not suitable and neither are the terms of the 
cover is likely to have referred (in Mrs Ps case) to the Scottish Provident policy 
which has a fixed term to coincide with a previous mortgage repayment date. But it 
was not suitable for repaying an interest-only mortgage.
The advisers comments that Mr and Mrs P didnt want to deplete the amounts 
available for family protection and references to IHT planning are likely to apply to the 
NatWest Life policy which provided cover more suited to these aims. If Mr and Mrs P 
didn't agree that they wanted to leave some protection in place for family protection 
and not the mortgage, I would expect them to have questioned it at the time. 
Either way, the adviser made no comment that there was a further £95,000 segment 
to the mortgage and this was what the NatWest Life policy would be protecting. I 
would have expected him to do this if it was discussed, particularly as his compliance 
department was checking the advice.
Im not satisfied by Mr Ps account that the NatWest Life policy was simultaneously covering 
a £230,000 mortgage on a buy to let (which didnt exist between November 2009 and 2012), 
but also an additional £95,000 segment to the main residential mortgage. Not only do the 
adviser's recommendations not discuss a £95,000 segment, but he was not tasked with 
investigating mortgage protection for the buy to let mortgage at all. So, none of this, in my 
view, helps demonstrate that the adviser's failure to notice the absolute trust on the NatWest 
Life policy has affected the recommendations he was making at that time.Mr P has raised the point about Avivas policy reviews of the NatWest Life policy. According 
to the policy conditions, the first review would have been in 2007, so I can see why the Axa 
adviser was querying what had happened to this review. But this in any event post-dates the 
point (2004) that Im already providing a refund of premiums to Mrs P as a result of the 
absolute trust going unnoticed. 
Mr Ps comments suggest the review was carried out and his resulted in the indexation of 
cover ceasing. I dont know if Aviva adequately notified Mrs P of this - but if that would have 
led to her cancelling the policy, the remedy for that (a refund of premiums) is what I'm  
already going to be awarding in this case. The theme of all the arguments Mr P has 
advanced is that his wife would have then paid for different cover elsewhere. Looking at the 
extent of the cover she has taken out over the years, I dont think its likely she would have 
simply kept the money she saved. That is why I'm not requiring interest to be added to this 
refund.
Ive never said that Mr C and Mrs P were beneficiaries of the NatWest Life trust but rather 
that they were both trustees. And whilst the complaints I'm considering here aren't against 
the bank who sold the trust and policy to Mrs P, I have reiterated to Mr P what the bank said 
in its final response letter that the whole of life policy was not a condition of the mortgage. I 
agree its unlikely such a policy would be sold to protect a mortgage let alone be a condition 
of it, but if that is something Mr P disputes he should raise that in his dispute with the bank. 
Putting things right
Aviva must compensate Mrs P on the basis she would have stopped paying premiums to the 
NatWest Life policy from December 2004. (This assumes that Mrs P would have acted within 
about one month of Aviva notifying her that it was under absolute trust.) This is a fair 
settlement given that she paid premiums for a policy that didnt continue to meet her needs 
due to the absolute trust structure, partly as a result partly of Avivas failure to highlight this 
to her. But I wont be requiring Aviva to add interest to the refund when she would most likely 
have spent these premiums on another policy.
We dont know who that new policy would have been with and whether it would have paid 
out for Mrs Ps current condition. But if it had done, as Mr P argues, I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Mrs P to bear this potential (but uncertain) part of her loss  in view of 
the opportunity she also had in 2004 to notice what the terms of the absolute trust said. And 
the alternative policy paying out would likely have meant any other cover for life and critical 
illness (which Mrs P currently still has under her NatWest Life policy) ceasing.
I therefore require Aviva to refund all of the premiums Mrs P has paid to NatWest Life and 
then Aviva from December 2004 onwards. 
If Mrs P accepts my decision, this is on the understanding that she will cease paying future 
premiums to the policy. My understanding is that this will result in the cover she still has for 
life and critical illness lapsing, so Mrs P will need to bear that in mind that if she wants to 
replace that cover elsewhere  as it may cost her more to do so, or there may be limitations 
as a result of her condition. 
Im not requiring Aviva to do anything further in respect of those issues as the only basis on 
which I think Mrs P would still have had life and critical illness cover running today is if the 
alternative cover she could have taken out in 2004 wouldnt yet have paid out for her 
condition. And that isnt the basis of the complaints brought to us. I dont consider there is a 
reasonable basis for me to require Aviva to replicate Mrs Ps benefits outside of the trust. I 
can see its argument that it would frustrate the terms of the trust for me to do that. Mrs P has 
the right to stop paying premiums  and the refund reflects the fact that she would likely 
have chosen to do that in 2004.If Mrs P accepts my decision the refund she will be receiving from Aviva can be put towards 
any higher costs of cover elsewhere in future, so that is an option for her to consider. 
Alternatively, if the cost of such cover is prohibitive Mrs P has the option of rejecting my 
decision and continuing to pay premiums to the NatWest Life (Aviva) policy if she considers 
there is a possiblity she may benefit from it in future.
If Mrs P wants to retain her Aviva policy she should not accept my decision. She or a 
representative would need to engage with Mr C in the event a claim is successfully made. 
Ive explained previously why I consider thats a reasonable step to take in mitigation of any 
loss. A complaint may result in the event Mrs P can demonstrate she is unable to recover 
the proceeds of a claim from Mr C, but it would be premature to consider that complaint now.
If Mrs P accepts my decision and receives this refund, its a matter for Aviva to decide how 
to terminate the policy given any considerations there may be around the trust structure.
That is not a matter for me to give directions on.
I also think Aviva has added to Mrs Ps distress - given that it could have given her 
information in 2004 that would have resulted in her changing her insurance arrangements 
before she suffered her accident. That would have avoided her trying to take legal advice 
and contemplating the awkward situation of making contact with her ex- husband. 
Aviva had originally offered Mrs P £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But I 
dont consider Aviva took into account that it wasnt just responsible for the ongoing 
administration of NatWest Lifes book of business in 2004. It subsequently accepted (through 
a Part VII transfer) responsibility for NatWest Lifes liabilities. In my view that would include 
the way in which the trust was originally recorded on the systems NatWest Life used to 
administer the policies. I therefore require Aviva to pay £500 to Mrs P for the impact on her 
that it and its predecessor (NatWest Life)s actions had in administering the policy.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and require Aviva to pay her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman