DRN-4246251
The complaint
Miss D complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd misled her 
about the cover available under her pet insurance policy and unfairly turned down her claim.
My references to Casualty include the agent it uses to handle claims and complaints on its 
behalf.
What happened
On 6 December 2022 Miss D adopted a dog. The following day she took out a pet insurance 
policy with an insurer Ill call M. But 9 December 2022 she decided to take a policy with 
Casualty at a lower premium and cancelled the direct debit with M.
On 13 December Miss D messaged and then spoke with Casualty to check how the policys 
waiting period worked. Casualty told her that claims for treatment would not be paid within 
the policys 10 day waiting period, but anything found would not be discounted from future 
claims. 
On 15 December 2022 Miss D took her dog to the vet for his health check and mentioned 
that he had been scratching his ears. The vet noted a condition called erythema (a skin 
disorder) and noted one of the dogs ears was badly infected. The vet prescribed medication 
and arranged some blood tests. 
In January 2023 Miss D took her dog to the vet again to check his ears and for the blood test 
results. The vet noted erythema in the paws and Miss D arranged for allergy testing. She 
made a claim to Casualty for the treatment costs to date, which included the December 2022 
treatment.
Casualty rejected Miss Ds claim because the claim occurred within the 10 day waiting 
period. It referred to the declaration Miss D had signed before taking out the policy which 
said You cant claim for accidents that happen in the first 24 hours and illnesses that show 
symptoms in the first 10 days after your start date. 
Miss D said this was unfair, given her conversation with Casualty on 13 December 2022. If 
she had known the correct position, she would not have taken her dog to the vet within the 
10 day waiting period. She also would not have cancelled her policy with M, which she said 
based on previous experience would have paid the claim for the January 2023 treatment. 
Casualty accepted that its call handler had given Miss D misleading information. But it said 
this should not have influenced Miss Ds decision to seek veterinary care, as her dog was 
clearly symptomatic. And its policy excluded any illnesses where symptoms had presented 
within the policy waiting period. Any illness would not be treated as pre-existing but would be 
excluded from cover. 
Unhappy with the outcome Miss D came to us. Our Investigator recommended that Casualty 
pay Miss D £100 compensation for giving her misleading information about the policy cover. 
But our Investigator thought Casualty had reasonably declined the claim because Miss D 
(and the vet) had noted the skin issue and infection during the waiting period. Our 
Investigator did not consider that the dogs condition would have been covered under the 
policy Miss D had initially taken out with M.
Miss D accepted she had told the vet that her dog had been scratching his ears but there 
was no previous history of this as shed just adopted him. Shed cancelled her policy with 
M following her direct messages with Casualty, and the phone call was to clarify she had 
made the right decision to go with Casualty. In her view, M would not have excluded 
conditions found within the waiting period  just the treatment fees during the first 14 days. 
Casualty has excluded conditions found in the waiting period, even though it says it has not 
done so. 
Miss D also said that £100 compensation would not be anywhere near the amount she 
would pay for her dogs lifelong treatment for allergies. She had responsibly taken insurance 
and clarified the wording via a phone call when the direct messaging service had not given 
her enough information. She asked for an Ombudsman review of her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Casualty to pay Miss D £100 
compensation as it has agreed to do. But I dont require it to do anything more. Ill explain 
why, focusing on the issues I consider are central to this dispute.
Industry rules require insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably 
reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering how Casualty has applied the 
policy terms in this case. 
Miss Ds policy does not provide cover for claims that occur within the first 10 days. This is 
very common in pet insurance, and we do not consider it is unreasonable. 
Under Not covered the policy says that Casualty will not cover any accidents during the 
24 hour waiting period or Any other claims that occur within the first 10 days of your policy 
start date with [Casualty] which is the waiting period for all other claims. The General Policy 
Exclusions say that Casualty will not pay Any pre-existing conditions or any claim costs 
relating to the applicable waiting period as listed in the Schedule. 
I think Casualty was fairly entitled to turn down Miss Ds claim for December 2022 and 
January 2023 vets fees. The December 2022 treatment costs were incurred during the 
10 day waiting period. And I think the vets notes of the appointments support that the 
January 2023 treatment and tests related to the applicable waiting period. 
Miss D has said that if Casualty had not misled her then she could have waited a few more 
days before taking her dog to the vet. But even if she had done so, I think Casualty could 
fairly have declined the claim. The evidence is that she had noticed her dog scratching his 
ears within the 10 day waiting period and the vet noted that the dogs right ear VERY red 
and hot, very smelly, very crusty from scratching with leg. 
I have considered Miss Ds comments that she did not cancel her policy with M until after 
she had received the reassurance she was seeking from Casualty. She has had some prior 
experience with pet insurance and says that M would have covered her claim. In support of 
that she has sent us a copy of her policy with M. I have considered whether it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss D would have 
been able to make a successful claim under Ms policy.
The relevant part of Ms policy says that We are not able to pay a claim for any vets vees 
incurred due to illness within the first 14 days of the policy. The evidence is that Miss Ds 
claim for the January 2023 vets fees were incurred due to illness within the first 14 days of 
the policy. Illness means any injuries, disease, sickness or infection suffered by your pet 
and diagnosed by a vet. Miss Ds dog was noted as having an infection within the first 
14 days of the policy with M, so I dont think its likely her claim would have been paid. 
Casualty caused Miss D some distress and inconvenience in giving her incorrect information 
about her policy cover. I think £100 compensation is fair for this. I appreciate this will not 
cover the dogs medication. But the compensation is to reflect the inconvenience for the 
incorrect information rather than the cost of the claim or future claims. 
Miss D has said that she is now trapped into the policy with Casualty, as her dog would be 
treated as having a pre-existing condition by other insurers. And she says Casualty is 
treating her dog as having a pre-existing condition. 
I think it is unfortunately the case that Miss Ds dog having an illness within the waiting 
period for the Casualty policy means her claim for that illness will not be paid. I dont think its 
likely it would have been paid with any pet insurer. 
But Casualty is not treating the illness as a pre-existing condition. Rather, it will not pay 
claims relating to an illness within the waiting period. I cannot decide whether any future 
claims that Miss D might submit would be rejected under the policy  I can only decide 
whether Casualty made a fair decision on the claim Miss D has submitted. I think it did make 
a fair decision so I cannot fairly require it to pay the claim. 
Putting things right
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay Miss D £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to take the step set out in the Putting things right section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman