DRN-2858036
The complaint
Mr D says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for his unsuitable investment of £10,000, in 
January 2017, in UK Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the bonds). 
CM disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met Mr D, that he was never 
introduced to Mr D, that he never communicated with Mr D in any way, that CM did not 
advise Mr Ds investment in the bonds and that CM had nothing to do with his application for 
the bond investment. CM has also referred Mr D, in its response to him of 20 February 2020, 
to a third-party firm which it says processed his application for and investment in the bonds.
What happened
A copy of Mr Ds application for the bonds includes  in his handwriting  his application 
details and his signature (expressly dated 16 January 2017); and then there is a section for 
his advisers details which, in a different handwriting, consists of CMs principals name, 
CMs details (including FCA number) as the Authorised Adviser, its principals signature 
and the same date of 16 January 2017.
Mr Ds evidence about his circumstances at the time of the investment, and about the 
circumstances leading to the investment, is mainly as follows:
He was retired, and had been retired since 2016; his incomings [he appears to have 
quoted this on a monthly basis] totalled £1,150 and they came from his state pension 
and private pension arrangements; he had no previous investment experience; he 
sought a relatively safe investment, with some risk, in order to achieve a return that 
would provide additional support for him in his retirement; and the capital he invested 
was from his savings.
He was introduced to UKPDS and the bonds by a third-party individual who also 
introduced him to CM; that individual gave him information about UKPDS and the 
bonds; he understood the investment term to be one year; he completed the bond 
application form, a fact find document and a risk profile questionnaire, and the third-
party passed those documents to CM for CMs assessment of suitability; CMs 
confirmation of suitability (in the advisers undertaking it gave in the application form) 
assured him that he could proceed with the investment; and his bond certificate was 
issued to him on 31 January 2017. 
He had no prior knowledge or awareness of the third-party firm CM referred to in its 
letter of 20 February 2020.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance 
Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice and he noted Mr Ds description of how the 
investment happened. He considered that the contents of CMs advisers undertaking in       
Mr Ds application for the bonds strongly suggests that CM was the adviser for the 
investment and that its assessment of the bonds suitability influenced Mr Ds decision to 
invest in them. 
In terms of suitability, the investigator took the view that they were unsuitable for Mr D 
because they were particularly high-risk investments  that they were mini bonds issued by 
companies too small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods, being 
companies that also had a higher risk of cash flow problems and/or failure. The investigator 
considered that the bonds required a sophisticated investor and an investor prepared to take 
high risks, neither of which was Mr D.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint. He added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that CM was not authorised to give investment advice at the time of   
Mr Ds investment so it could not and would not have advised him on the investment.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responsibility for Mr Ds investment
I endorse, and incorporate into this decision, the investigators findings on the guidance 
given in PERG 8.28 (about what constitutes advice from a firm) and on its relevance to the 
complaint. 
As there was no direct engagement between Mr D and CM, because of the introducers 
presence and role, I have applied the guidance to the arrangement described by Mr D  
which, on balance, I consider to be a reliable description. I have previously made decisions 
in other complaints about CM, with claims similar or identical to those by Mr D and with 
rebuttals from CM identical to those it has raised against Mr Ds complaint. A third-party 
intermediary/introducer has featured in most of those cases, so I consider it plausible that 
one featured in Mr Ds case as he has described.
A key message in the guidance within PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value 
judgement, about the merits of an investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, 
which influenced the latters investment decision.
CMs signed advisers undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking from CM presented, to Mr D, its 
value judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for him. It says as much, and it 
does so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule which defines suitability 
(that is, COBS 9). 
On balance, I accept Mr Ds evidence that the undertaking influenced his decision to 
proceed with the investment. Available documentation in Mr Ds case is limited. However, as 
I said above, I have addressed other comparable complaints and more documentation and 
information about UKPDS and the bonds was/is available to me in one of those. Based on 
that, I am aware that confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to 
investing in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser undertaking within the 
application document. CM gave that undertaking and that made Mr Ds investment possible. 
In this context, it is understandable and probable that he considered the undertaking pivotal to his decision on whether (or not) to proceed with the investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that CM undertook 
responsibility for advising Mr D that his investment in the bonds was suitable for him. If, as 
its principal argues, CM did not give such advice directly to him, it is probable that it did so 
indirectly (through the introducer and through the message to Mr D in its undertaking); and 
that it assessed suitability of the bonds for Mr D based on information about the bonds and 
on information it had about Mr D through the documents he completed and through the 
introducer. If CM says it conducted no such assessment and that it had no information about 
Mr D, then its undertaking would have been false. Such false undertaking was relied upon by 
Mr D, and CM would therefore hold responsibility for misleading Mr Ds investment in the 
bond.
CMs references to absent advice documentation and to lacking authority to advise on 
investments in 2017 does not alter the above conclusions. There is documentation, in the 
form of its advisers undertaking, that CM assessed suitability of the bonds for Mr D and 
considered them suitable for him. If that was done at a time when CM did not have the 
regulators authority to give investment advice then that is a matter between it and the 
regulator. The lack of such authority does not negate evidence that, as a matter of fact, CM 
stood as adviser for Mr Ds investment and assessed the investment suitable for him.
For the sake of completeness, I accept Mr Ds assertion that he had no prior knowledge or 
awareness of the third-party firm mentioned by CM last year. I have not seen evidence of 
such prior knowledge or awareness on his part. Furthermore, I consider it noteworthy that 
CMs principals unsolicited reference to an unknown third-party firm appears to defeat his 
overall argument that he had nothing to do with Mr Ds investment. If that was the case, he 
ought not to know about any firm processing Mr Ds application for and investment in the 
bonds.
Suitability of Mr Ds investment
In broad terms, and based on information from one of the comparable cases I have referred 
to, the bonds had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months)  in Mr Ds case, 
he has confirmed that his investment was based only on the initial 12 months term  and 
they were used by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to third-party firms 
for the business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the proceeds 
of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided funds to be 
used in paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Mr Ds 
investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 months term Mr Ds bonds had and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced 
managers.
I have not seen evidence that Mr D was a high-risk investor with investment experience that made it possible for him to understand the risks involved in the bonds  and to understand 
that they were different from what I will broadly refer to as conventional bonds (and therefore 
did not have the relative lower risk profile of conventional bonds). He has described himself, 
at the time of the investment, as being inclined to taking low risks but as also being prepared 
to take some risk for the venture in order to have the chance for the growth and for the 
returns he sought (to supplement his retirement provisions). At most, this would have given 
him a medium risk profile, which was mismatched by the high-risk nature of the UKPDS 
bonds.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Mr D; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mr D as close as I can to the position he would probably 
now be in if he had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the view 
that he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given available 
information, as summarised above, of his profile at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of his bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay him interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr D s 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsStill existsfor half of the investment, 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds; and for the 
other half, the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index)date of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicableactual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mr D agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Mr D that he repay to CM any amount 
he may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
As I said above, Mr D probably had no more than a medium risk profile for his 
investment in the bonds. He was naturally a low risk taker, but he was prepared to 
take some risks in the investment for the chance of the growth and returns he sought. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds, and would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Ds profile was somewhere in between these benchmarks, in the 
sense that he was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment 
objective. The 50/50 combination above would reasonably put him into that position 
and it broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from an investment 
suited to his profile. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order Craig Mitchell to pay him 
compensation as set out above. Craig Mitchell must also provide him with a calculation of 
the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman