DRN-1194477
Complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Acromas Insurance Company Limited have said they wont pay out on his 
claim under his breakdown repair cover.
Background
Another company were involved in the events that have led up to this complaint. But as 
those issues fall outside our powers to consider them, which Mr B has accepted, Ill be 
focusing this decision on relevant information about Mr B and Acromas.
Following an incident in July 2019 where Mr B called out the company referenced above to 
look at the noise he was hearing when driving, he took it to a garage for inspection around a 
month later. The inspection found the diesel particulate filter needed cleaning  and they 
reported the car had done 129,882 miles.
Mr B said hes been charged £300, and asked Acromas to meet the cost of this  saying 
hed had a breakdown. Acromas replied and said his claim didnt meet the terms of a 
breakdown under the policy. They explained to meet that definition the vehicle must 
breakdown due to mechanical or electrical failure  and as a result be prevented from 
continuing the onward journey. Acromas said Mr Bs car didnt breakdown as a result of a 
mechanical or electrical fault  and 1,278 miles had passed since the issue happened. So, 
his claim didnt meet the definition of a breakdown.
Mr B disagreed with this and feels he should be reimbursed the £300 he paid for his car to 
be looked at. He says he shouldnt be held responsible for the costs.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. But she felt that Acromas had applied the 
policy terms and conditions fairly, so said Acromas didnt need to refund him these costs. As 
Mr B didnt accept this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B claimed under his breakdown repair cover with Acromas. Ive read through this policy 
document and it defines a breakdown as, amongst other things, being the result of a 
mechanical or electrical failure, that has prevented the vehicle from starting or continuing the 
journey safely. 
The policy goes on to define mechanical and electrical failure as the sudden and 
unforeseen breaking or burning out (electrical) of any insured parts. And in the section 
under insured parts, says that fuel particulate filters arent covered under the policy.
Acromas have given us the report of when Mr Bs car was seen at the roadside in July 2019. 
This report shows the mileage on his car as 128,604 miles. And Ive listened to the call 
between Acromas and the garage Mr B took his car to in August 2019  they tell Acromas 
the mileage on his car was 129,882. So, his car had been driven for over 1,200 miles since hed first reported the issue. Given that, I dont think I can reasonably say Mr Bs claim would 
meet the policy terms for his car being prevented from starting or continuing the journey.
In addition, the garage explains they found a problem with the fuel particulate filter  saying it 
needed a clean. Given it needed a clean, this doesnt meet the definition of unforeseen 
breaking or burning out of parts as specified in the terms  and even if it did, the fuel 
particulate filter is specifically excluded from this term.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Bs claim doesnt meet the terms of 
breakdown under the policy, and Acromas arent required to refund him the costs hes paid 
out.
My decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman