DRN-2777889
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard acted unfairly when it 
refused to write off the balance on his credit card.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Barclaycard. He says that hes experienced financial 
and personal difficulties in recent years. He hasnt been working since 2018 and hes 
experienced depression and related medical illnesses. He says he felt suicidal in 2018 and 
had a plan at that time. He was only prevented from carrying out the plan because of the 
intervention of a third party.
Mr B says that hes been seeking help for his depression and hes getting counselling. But 
he says that Barclaycard has treated him in a way which shows it doesnt care. He asked it 
in September 2020 to write off the debt on medical grounds. But he says it refused and 
treated him insensitively. He says he complained to Barclaycard and it took it several months 
to respond to his complaint. 
Barclaycard said that it had carefully reviewed Mr Bs complaint, but it was unable to write off 
the balance on his account. Barclaycard said it had followed its Collections process 
correctly. It had defaulted his account correctly and recorded the default with credit reference 
agencies. It said it had granted Mr B a credit limit in line with its lending policy. It had carried 
out the usual background checks before granting a credit limit to him.
Barclaycard acknowledged that Mr B had experienced financial and personal circumstances 
which had impacted on his wellbeing. It said it wanted to reassure him that despite its 
decision not to write off his balance it didnt require him to pay it any money if he wasnt in a 
position to do so.
Barclaycard said it was sorry if Mr B had found its letter of 13 October 2020 offensive but 
that wasnt its intention. It said it had given factual information and offered him further 
support. Barclaycard acknowledged that it had taken it longer than it should have to respond 
to his complaint. It paid him £100 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve his complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. She said that we wouldnt expect Barclaycard to write 
off the debt unless there was clear evidence that there was almost no chance hed ever be 
able to repay the debt. She thought the medical evidence hadnt said that and his 
circumstances could change in the future.
She also thought that Barclaycard had agreed a fair repayment plan with Mr B. Itd told him 
that it wouldnt put any pressure on him to make payments. It would check the position with 
him every twelve months and if his circumstances changed it would review his income and 
expenditure at that time. She said Barclaycard had acted fairly when it reported the default to 
the credit reference agencies. 
Our investigator reviewed the letter from Barclaycard dated 13 October 2020. She thought it 
had been written in a sensitive tone. She said Barclaycard had paid Mr B £100 because it 
had taken longer to get back to him about his complaint than he reasonably expected. She 
thought that was fair and reasonable. She didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything 
other than put the management plan in place to review the position every twelve months.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that Barclaycard hadnt acted fairly or with care. He said that this 
still left the debt hanging over him like a death sentence. He thought it was a joke that 
Barclaycard had refused to write off a debt of just over £700, given his medical 
circumstances.
Because Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just like to say how sorry I am to read about the difficulties Mr B has been 
experiencing with his mental health. Hes told us that hes attending his doctor and has been 
getting support to help him. And I hope hes finding that support helpful.
Mr B took out his credit card with Barclaycard in 2017. It appears that the last withdrawal he 
made using the card was in November 2018. He missed two payments in November and 
December 2018. After that date it appears he made the minimum monthly repayments until 
he missed a payment in September 2019. He didnt make any further payments after that 
date.
Mr B contacted Barclaycard in September 2019. He told it that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties following issues at his work. He said hed gone back home to live with his parents. 
He also mentioned the problems he was having with his mental health and said hed 
considered committing suicide. He told Barclaycard that he had his property on the market 
and the debt would be paid when that property was sold.
In these circumstances, wed expect Barclaycard to have treated Mr B sympathetically and 
positively. So, Ive looked at how Barclaycard responded to what Mr B had told it.
Barclaycard put Mr Bs account on hold for 30 days. This meant that no interest or charges 
were applied to the account. It thanked him for telling it about his circumstances and said it 
didnt expect him to clear the arrears and it wouldnt ask him to make any payments whilst 
the account was on hold. It explained all of this in its letter to him dated 11 September 2019. 
That letter also explained to Mr B that although he wasnt expected to make payments, his 
account would continue to be reported to credit reference agencies.
I think this was a sympathetic and positive response to what Mr B had told Barclaycard. It 
wrote to him again on 16 October, asking him to contact it to make sure he was getting the 
right support. That letter reiterated that he wasnt going to be asked to pay anything he 
couldnt afford, and it wouldnt take his account off hold until he was ready. The letter also 
explained that it was likely he would get a Default Notice after around five months. But it said 
he shouldnt worry about that. The letter said:
We know it wont be possible for you to catch up with your payments unless your 
situation changes. And, were not going to ask you to make any payments you cant 
afford. We just have to send this to you  its a legal requirement.Mr B contacted Barclaycard again on 26 November 2019 to update it on his circumstances. 
As a result, the account remained on hold. There was further telephone contact in February 
2020 and shortly after that a Default Notice was issued. Barclaycard again assured Mr B it 
didnt expect him to make any payments.
Mr B contacted Barclaycard again in July 2020. He explained there was no change in his 
circumstances, and he wanted it to swipe his debt. Barclaycard said it wouldnt do that. 
Mr B phoned again in September 2020. He told Barclaycard he was feeling anxious and 
nervous and wasnt able to return to work. It appears from the notes on Barclaycards file 
that the sale of the property hadnt proceeded. But, because Mr Bs mortgage wasnt with 
Barclaycard  it was unclear whether the sale of the property would be a means to repay the 
debt in any case. Mr B explained that he was attending his GP. He said he wanted the debt 
written off.
When a customer explains to a business that its unlikely, because of his medical condition, 
that hes going to be in a position to repay a debt then wed expect the business to carefully 
consider the request  taking everything into account. That doesnt mean that such a request 
will always be successful.
In this case Barclaycard asked Mr B to provide evidence from his GP about his medical 
condition. He did provide a letter. The letter stated that Mr B was experiencing depression 
and anxiety and was finding it difficult to find work. It stated:
[Mr B] is seeking counselling but it would help if his stress could be reduced by 
removal of the pressure to repay the debts he has
Barclaycard considered the matter. It sent Mr B a letter dated 13 October 2020 to say that it 
could not write off the debt. Mr B thought this letter was insensitive  so Ill comment further 
about its contents.
Barclaycard said it wanted to assure Mr B that his health and wellbeing was a priority and it 
would do everything it could to help him. It said it was unable to write off the outstanding 
balance. But, it assured him that it didnt expect him to make payments he couldnt afford 
and based on his current situation it didnt expect him to make any payments unless his 
financial situation improved. Fees and interest remained suspended on his account.
So, although the request to write off the debt was not successful, I think Barclaycards 
response was positive and sympathetic. Barclaycard says there was no intention on its part 
that the letter should be insensitive and having read the letter, Im not persuaded that it was.
Mr B says Barclaycards decision means that the debt has been left hanging over his head 
like a death sentence. 
I can understand why he feels that it wouldve been better for his mental health if the debt 
had been written off. But, it is also the case that his GP had said that whilst that might mean 
his stress could be reduced  he didnt say that, in his opinion, Mr B wouldnt be able to 
return to work at some stage in the future. And Barclaycard didnt put any pressure on Mr B 
to make repayments. It hasnt put any pressure on him to make repayments, at any time 
since he first reported his mental health problems to it. 
Barclaycard did acknowledge that it had taken longer to get back to him about his complaint 
than he should reasonably have expected. Its paid him £100 by way of compensation for 
that. I think thats fair and reasonable.Having considered everything, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr B, I dont think Barclaycard 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. I dont require it to write off Mr Bs debt. I expect it 
to continue to treat him positively and sympathetically  as it has said in its correspondence 
it will do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman