DRN-2258802
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs D bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a mortgage. 
They recall the sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave them 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for 
it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the 
evidence we do have and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. It hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the policy document, so Ive relied on one from the nearest 
date available.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say the PPI was added without their knowledge or consent. Lloyds says it 
hasnt identified any failings during the sale. I cant know what was said in the meeting and 
Lloyds isnt able to provide documents to show how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs 
D. But the sale was over 20 years ago, so this isnt surprising or unreasonable.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs D said but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. I note they 
say the forms were completed and they just signed where indicated. But they were applying 
for a mortgage so I would have expected them to read all the paperwork carefully before 
signing. Without stronger evidence to show Lloyds didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, 
and Mr and Mrs D didnt agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check if the PPI 
was right for them. I know they feel they didnt need the cover, but I think it seems to have 
been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs D were both entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if they were 
sick, but the PPI would have paid out in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. This would have allowed Mr and Mrs D to protect any lump sum 
redundancy payment giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time.
Mr and Mrs D say they also had pensions, life and critical illness cover and death-in-service 
benefits  but these all offer different benefits or protection and would not help with monthly 
mortgage payments in the same way as PPI. Mr and Mrs D were borrowing a large sum of 
money over a long period of time secured on their home. Given the serious consequences 
of missing mortgage payments, I think the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs D if 
they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs D all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm 
the cost or monthly benefit of their policy but based on what we know about the policies it 
sold around this time its most likely it was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and 
it was apparently affordable. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have been affected by any of those things 
(such as the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions).
So overall, I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
Rebecca Connelley
 
Ombudsman