DRN-3977640
The complaint
Mr K has complained about how Thamesbank Insurance Services (Thamesbank) dealt with 
a home insurance policy that automatically renewed.
What happened
Mr K took out a policy through a broker, Thamesbank, for a property he owned. The 
following year, the policy automatically renewed. Mr K contacted Thamesbank as he no 
longer owned the property. Thamesbank said it could cancel the policy but he should provide 
a proof of sale as the insurer would need to see this.
Mr K complained to this service as he wasnt satisfied with how Thamesbank dealt with his 
complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said when Mr K took out the 
policy, it explained the policy would auto-renew. He said when Mr K told Thamesbank the 
policy shouldnt have renewed, it was reasonable for it to request theproof of sale, as the 
insurer needed this to backdate the cancellation and for a full refund to be provided.
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im aware Mr K has said his concern isnt about the auto-renewal, it was that he was told he 
would only be provided a refund of £45.50 and even then only if he provided a proof of sale. 
The policy cost £156.57. So, this is what Ive focussed on.
Ive looked at what Mr K was told. Ive seen an online live chat between Thamesbank and 
Mr K. Im aware Mr K has said he didnt have an online conversation with Thamesbank. 
However, the details provided in the chat persuade me that its reasonable to think it was Mr 
K who took part in this conversation. In the chat, Mr K explained what had happened with the 
property. Thamesbank said Mr K would need to provide proof of sale if he didnt want to be 
subject to cancellation fees. Thamesbank said it had calculated the cancellation and the 
refund would be for £45.50. Mr K said he wanted to raise a complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint response. Im aware Mr K disputes some of the details 
Thamesbank provided in its reply. Thamesbank again confirmed that in order for it to 
backdate the cancellation to the start of the policy it would need proof of sale. It explained 
that this was because the insurer required evidence of the sale and that it wouldnt be liable 
to consider claims during that period. I dont consider it unreasonable for Thamesbank to 
request evidence of the sale.
In its response, Thamesbank also said We remain happy to pursue this with your insurers 
once we have received the necessary information from you.  Until such time that this is 
received, we regret that we can only allow the cancellation from the 10th November and 
refund the amount returned by the insurer, less our fees, as outlined in our Terms of 
Business. In its response to the complaint, I didnt see any reference to Thamesbank only 
refunding up to £45.50.
Thamesbank also confirmed to this service that if Mr K could provide the proof of sale that 
we can provide to the insurers to backdate the cancellation we will refund in full, with no 
charges applied by ourselves. Its my understanding that Mr K hasnt provided the proof of 
sale to Thamesbank. I leave it to Mr K to decide if he wishes to do so.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Thamesbank 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman