DRN-2768111
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
Whilst Mrs T is the policyholder, this is Mr Ts claim, so Ill mostly refer to him for ease of 
reading. 
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In late 2018, Mr T emailed his broker regarding a dispute with his employer. He explained 
that hed been called to an investigatory meeting and that he was looking at possible 
unfair dismissal following a public disclosure. This was passed to Great Lakes, who 
arranged a call from its legal helpline. 
Two calls followed between Mr T and the legal helpline. And there is some dispute over what 
was said. 
Mr T says he told the advisor that he wanted to pursue a discrimination claim as he felt the 
action being taken against him arose as a result of him whistleblowing on his employers 
working practices, as well as from a perceived disability. But he was told the policy doesnt 
provide cover until hes dismissed. 
He argues that he doesnt need to be dismissed in order to pursue a claim for discrimination. 
And that there is nothing within his policy terms and conditions to suggest hes not covered 
prior to his employment being brought to an end. 
Great Lakes say that Mr T didnt mention a discrimination claim. And that his enquiries were 
limited to an unfair dismissal claim arising from his whistleblowing. As this couldnt be 
pursued in an employment tribunal while he remained employed, he was told to return when 
the outcome of the internal proceedings was known. 
Mr T says that whilst he may not have known the correct terminology for his discrimination 
claim, he was clear that he thought hed be dismissed for whistleblowing which the legal 
helpline shouldve understood to be a discrimination claim. So they were incorrect in telling 
him to wait until he was dismissed. He complains that he shouldve had access to the policy 
cover at the outset. And that case law dictates he shouldve had the freedom to appoint his 
own solicitor at this stage.
Mr T did return to Great Lakes in mid-2019 and discussions lasted through to early 2020. 
During this time, hed appealed the outcome of the internal proceedings and was 
subsequently dismissed. At that point, Great Lakes considered the claim and sought legal 
advice on the prospects of success.
The legal assessment said Mr Ts claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success as 
required by the policy terms. Mr T wasnt happy with this as the advising lawyer hadnt 
commented on the discrimination element of his dismissal. 
Great Lakes sought clarification from the lawyer, who confirmed their opinion remained the 
same. Mr T was advised of the outcome, but Great Lakes didnt pass on the reasons why. 
Instead, it said Mr T could obtain a legal opinion of his own. Mr T complains that his 
discrimination claims were ignored.
In addition, Mr T complains that he wasnt given legal representation for the ACAS early 
conciliation process. And that he was told his claim was declined ten days before his 
limitation date, leaving him with limited time to prepare and submit his case to the 
employment tribunal. 
Mr T brought his complaint to our service. And since that time, Great Lakes has 
acknowledged there were some failings in its customer service. Specifically, it says it didnt 
provide Mr T with the full reasoned legal advice on why his discrimination claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. And its offered £150 compensation for what went wrong.
Our investigator thought this offer was fair. And that Great Lakes didnt need to do anything 
more. She said the policy provides cover for claims that fall within the jurisdiction of the 
employment tribunal. And based on what Mr T had said, there was no indication that he had 
a claim which could be pursued until late 2019 when he was dismissed. 
She also said Mr T wasnt entitled to appoint a solicitor of his own choice under the policy 
until he had a valid claim which had been accepted. As Great Lakes had not accepted his 
claim, the policy wouldnt provide funding for any solicitor to act on his behalf. 
But our investigator did consider it reasonable for Great Lakes to obtain a second legal 
assessment on the claims for unfair dismissal, disability discrimination and detriment arising 
from making a protected disclosure. The advice has now been received, which says that the 
claims dont enjoy reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr T doesnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I recognise the strength of feeling Mr T has for this matter, and I know this outcome 
will be disappointing to him. So Ill explain why.
Mr T has raised a number of points regarding this complaint. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything hes sent us. But I dont intend to respond to every point 
individually, or possibly in the level of detail he would like. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, 
but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Discrimination claim
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy says hes covered for employment disputes. It 
says it will cover:Professional Fees (up to £50,000) for Us to negotiate for Your legal rights 
concerning a claim against Your employer for unfair or wrongful dismissal, 
redundancy or unlawful discrimination falling within the jurisdiction of an Employment 
Tribunal.
There appears to be some dispute over the claim Mr T initially made. Mr Ts email to his 
broker implies that hes looking to make an unfair dismissal claim. But he says his reference 
to the dismissal arising from a protected disclosure shouldve indicated that there were 
further claims to be made.
The following communication was over the phone. And unfortunately the legal helpline has 
been unable to provide call recordings or call notes. But Great Lakes has provided emails it 
received from the legal helpline at the time of the phone calls, which summarises what was 
said. The notes are as follows:
Call 1  just to let you know, [advisor] has spoken to the below insured  he is yet to 
be dismissed. She has discussed the issue of whistleblowing and options, but until 
he knows what sanction he may face there is no action that can be taken at this time. 
The insured may however come back to you in future for further advice depending 
what happens with his employer.
Call 2  the insured informed [advisor] that he thought we were instructed and would 
be attending the meeting with him. [Advisor] made it clear to him in this call and her 
last call with him that we have not confirmed prospects of success and have not 
accepted the case. The insured needs to attend the meetings and await the outcome 
of the employer. He also needs to get evidence together to show that this is because 
of the whistleblowing. For us to confirm prospects we would need to see the insured 
paperwork.
Ive thought about the initial email from Mr T, along with what was most likely to have been 
said in the subsequent calls based on Mr Ts recollection and the notes above. 
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr T made a claim for discrimination. The 
information available implies that he thought he would be dismissed following a protected 
disclosure. So it was reasonable for the legal helpline to advise that this couldnt be pursued 
in an employment tribunal until a dismissal had occurred. 
I appreciate Mr Ts comments that he didnt know the exact terminology to use and that the 
legal helpline shouldve understood this to be a discrimination claim. But I dont agree. This 
wouldnt be a discrimination claim in itself and without evidence that this was the claim he 
wished to pursue I cant say Great Lakes has failed to consider it. 
Im satisfied Mr T was correctly advised that the unfair dismissal claim wasnt covered, as he 
hadnt been dismissed at that time. 
Freedom of choice
Mr T has quoted case law to support his assertion that he was entitled to appoint a solicitor 
of his own choice under the policy. 
As our investigator has explained, Mr T is only entitled to cover for legal expenses from the 
point that his claim is accepted under the policy  regardless of whether its a panel firm of 
solicitors or a solicitor of his own choosing. In this case, the claim has been declined. So there is no cover available for legal 
representation.
Initial prospects assessment 
In April 2020, Great Lakes obtained a legal assessment. And the outcome was that Mr Ts 
claims didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. Mr T felt that it had ignored his 
discrimination claims as these werent specifically addressed, so Great Lakes reverted back 
to the lawyer for further advice.
I can see that the lawyer provided further reasoning why they didnt think the discrimination 
claims had merit. But Great Lakes acknowledge that it didnt pass this on to Mr T. Its for this 
reason that its offered £150 compensation. 
Im satisfied the discrimination claims werent ignored and that Great Lakes obtained a legal 
assessment on the prospects of success of all elements of the case. But I appreciate why 
Mr T wouldve felt this way as he wasnt provided with the full reasoning. I think the £150 
offered fairly reflects what went wrong here. I say this because the oversight didnt change 
the outcome of Great Lakes claims decision and Im not aware of any detriment Mr T 
wouldve reasonably been caused as a result.
ACAS early conciliation process
Once Mr T had been dismissed, Great Lakes advised that it would consider his claim and it 
asked him to provide all paperwork so that an assessment could be carried out. I can see 
Mr T provided this in early 2020, after the outcome of his appeal was known. Great Lakes 
sent these papers to its panel solicitor within a few days. 
Shortly after, Mr T raised a complaint that he hadnt been supported in the early stages of his 
claim. And that he wasnt provided representation for the ACAS early conciliation process. 
On receipt of this, Great Lakes made enquiries with its panel solicitor who responded to say 
Im a bit surprised that hes complainedI thought he was agreeable to me waiting for the 
ACAS early conciliation to conclude before I carried out an assessment. If thats not the 
case, Ill make sure that it happens this week.
Great Lakes arent able to provide cover under the policy until a claim has been accepted. 
And at the time that Mr M needed to complete the ACAS process, his claim was still being 
assessed. It appears, through an agreement between Mr T and the solicitor, the assessment 
was on hold awaiting the outcome of this process. So I cant fairly say that Great Lakes did 
something wrong here when it wasnt party to this agreement and it was awaiting the 
outcome of the assessment to determine if it could put cover in place.
In any case, had the prospects assessment been completed earlier, it wouldnt have led to 
Mr T being covered for the ACAS process. I say this because the assessment didnt support 
the claim having reasonable prospects of success and cover was declined. 
Limitation date
Mr T says he was told his claim was declined ten days before his limitation expired, leaving 
him with limited time to prepare and submit his case to the employment tribunal. 
I can appreciate that this wouldve caused Mr T some concern. But from the information I 
have available, Great Lakes instructed the panel solicitor as soon as it received the 
paperwork from Mr T. And it provided him with the outcome of the legal assessment within a reasonable time after it was received. So I dont think it couldve done any more to speed 
things up for Mr T. 
Im pleased to see he was able to issue his case with the employment tribunal in time. 
Summary 
I recognise that Mr T feels very strongly about his complaint. But Im not persuaded that hes 
been treated unfairly here. 
Great Lakes considered the claim that was presented to it. And from the information 
available, Im not persuaded this included a discrimination claim. But even if it had and Great 
Lakes had considered it, I dont think this wouldve changed anything for Mr T. I say this 
because the claims were declined due to not having reasonable prospects of success. So 
Im not persuaded that cover wouldve been provided under the policy back in 2018 for these 
claims.
Im aware that Mr T has since been able to pursue his claims for unfair dismissal, disability 
discrimination and detriment arising from making a protected disclosure. Its unfortunate that 
the legal advice obtained doesnt support the claims having reasonable prospects of 
success. But Im satisfied Great Lakes has considered the claims fairly and its entitled to 
rely on the advice its received. 
In light of its failure to provide Mr T with the full reasons why his claim was declined initially, I 
think a compensation payment of £150 is reasonable.
 
My final decision
Great Lakes Insurance SE has offered to pay £150 compensation for the failings in its 
customer service. I think this is fair, for the reasons Ive explained. 
As such, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Mr T compensation 
of £150.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman