DRN-2631091
The complaint
Mr D has complained that the broker Ageas Retail Limited trading as RIAS cancelled his car 
insurance policy without telling him. Mr Ds car was seized by the police.
RIAS handled the cancellation of the policy on behalf of the insurer. 
What happened
Mr D bought a car insurance policy through RIAS. RIAS asked Mr D to provide proof of his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) history from his previous insurer. RIAS said it didnt receive the 
information it asked for, so on behalf of the insurer, it cancelled Mr Ds policy.
Mr D said RIAS didnt tell him about the cancellation. He thought RIAS should have 
contacted his previous insurer to verify his NCD if there were any problems.
RIAS didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and so he asked us to look at things for him.
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. He found that RIAS had 
given Mr D proper notice of cancellation and explained why the document Mr D had provided 
wasnt enough to prove his NCD history. 
Mr D didnt agree. He says he didnt receive any communication to tell him RIAS had 
cancelled the policy. He believes RIAS should have tried to call him as well as write and 
email him.
In March 2021 Mr D told us a charge for driving without insurance was withdrawn and points 
added to his licence have been removed. Mr D wants compensation for the costs he 
incurred as a result of his car being seized.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it.
When Mr D bought the policy on 16 August 2020, RIAS asked him to send proof of his NCD. 
It set out what type of proof would be acceptable. As it didnt hear from Mr D, it emailed him 
again on 21 August 2020 giving him nine days notice to prevent his policy from being 
cancelled. 
On 23 August 2020 RIAS wrote and emailed Mr D giving him a seven day notice of 
cancellation. On 2 September 2020 Mr D sent a photo of a page from his previous insurers 
policy details. However, this photo didnt confirm who the previous insurer was or provide all 
of the information RIAS requested.
On 2 September 2020 RIAS emailed Mr D and explained what NCD proof it needed:
Acceptable proof would require a full renewal invitation, a cancellation letter or a 
proof of no claims letter from your previous insurer that includes the following: A letter 
head clearly stating the identity of your previous insurer. Please note this document 
must include a footer (the small print at the bottom of the letter). Your previous policy 
expiry date Your name Your No Claims Discount in years.
Please provide acceptable proof by the end of today or your policy will be cancelled.
Alternatively you can contact your previous insurer and give them permission to 
speak to us. We can then attempt to verify your no claims discount over the phone 
with them.
Mr D says he was happy for RIAS to speak to his previous insurer. But RIAS didnt hear from 
Mr D. So it couldnt have known if it Mr D had given his previous insurer consent for RIAS to 
contact them. 
On 23 September 2020 it emailed Mr D giving him a further seven days notice of 
cancellation. On 30 September 2020 RIAS cancelled Mr Ds policy and wrote and emailed 
him confirmation on 1 and 2 October 2020. 
Mr D contacted RIAS on 20 October 2020 to say his car had been seized by the police as it 
wasnt insured. I understand Mr D says he didnt receive RIAS confirmation of cancellation. 
But RIAS has shown that it gave Mr D clear and proper notice of what it needed in order to 
prevent his policy from being cancelled by both email and letter. And so I think it took 
reasonable steps to communicate with Mr D. Mr D hasnt shown that he sent RIAS the 
information it asked for to prevent his policy from being cancelled.
I understand Mr D will be very disappointed. But from what Ive seen, I dont think RIAS is 
responsible for the losses Mr D incurred when his car was seized as it correctly cancelled his 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman