DRN-1594883
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) werent applying interest to his two Classic Plus 
accounts, and that he was not told of all the criteria he needed to meet in order to earn such 
interest. Mr M would like TSB to apply the interest to his account and backdate it to when the 
accounts were opened.
What happened
The relevant facts and issues are known to both Mr M and TSB, so I shall not repeat them. 
So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont 
think its of direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear at the outset that I am only looking at Mr Ms complaint in relation to the 
two accounts he held in his own name. I am aware that Mr M also had a joint account with 
his wife but as this does not form part of this complaint it will need to be dealt with 
separately.
The starting point is the document incorporating additional conditions, to the general 
conditions, which Mr M signed on 8 September 2014 when he opened the accounts. He 
signed one for each of the two accounts. This document shows, under the heading Plus, 
that the accounts would only attract interest if two conditions were met. These were that he 
had to pay into the account at least £500 during the calendar month, and also to have 
registered for paperless statements and paperless correspondence, if it was available. As Mr 
M signed this document it reasonable to conclude that he was aware of these two 
conditions.
Mr M told our investigator that he had registered for online banking when he opened the 
account, but he also said that at that time he didnt have access to a computer and was told 
that he should sign the agreement and not worry about the online aspect. In the light of that, 
and as TSB say their only evidence of Mr M registering for online banking is in March 2018, I 
conclude from this that it is likely Mr M didnt in fact register for online banking when the 
account was opened. I appreciate Mr M said he was told not to worry about the online 
aspect, but there is no evidence to support this. 
In saying this, Ive taken into consideration that TSB have confirmed that the joint account 
was attracting interest as was his wifes account which were also opened in 2014. I conclude 
from this that it is likely Mr M would have been able to register his two sole accounts since 
both the joint account and his wifes account had been registered in this way.
The next document of relevance is an email TSB sent to all of their customers in October 
2016. This email advises that the required balance on the accounts, upon which interest 
would be paid, was reducing to £1,500 from £2,000. Mr M then reduced his balance to 
£1,500 which indicates Mr M probably received that email. Within that email TSB also set out 
the conditions necessary for interest to be paid. These were 
The way you earn interest on your account stays the same. You still need to pay in a 
minimum of £500 a month and be registered for Internet Banking, paperless 
statements and paperless correspondence. You also need to make sure you log into 
your Internet Banking at least once every 12 months. And if you have a joint account, 
both of you must log in.
When Mr M raised his complaint with TSB in November 2019 he told them that he went into 
the branch about two years previously to enquire about registering for internet banking but 
also that he had not accessed the internet banking since then. As the evidence shows that 
Mr M hadnt registered for internet banking until March 2018, and from his own evidence 
hadnt accessed the internet banking since he went into the branch, then it follows that he 
hasnt complied with the conditions necessary for the interest to be paid. And those 
conditions were set out in the email sent to him in October 2016.
So, I cant say TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably here, as they notified Mr M of what it 
was that he needed to do in order to earn interest, so I dont think itd be fair to hold it liable 
for Mr M losing out on the interest here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman