DRN-3257396
The complaint
Mr P complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) accepted liability for an 
accident despite him asking it not to do so, so that he could pursue the matter in court.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr P was involved in a collision at a roundabout. Mr P says his car was 
stationary at a roundabout and another driver lost control of their moving vehicle and collided 
with the drivers side of this car. 
The third partys insurer disputed Mr Ps version of events, stating that Mr P had passed the 
give way line at the roundabout which caused the collision. 
Mr P appointed solicitors to represent him throughout his claim. In November 2019 the 
solicitors wrote to Calpe requesting that it didnt accept liability for the accident, thus 
prejudicing Mr Ps ability to take the matter to court. 
In December 2019 Calpe accepted liability for the accident. It explained that it did this based 
on the higher probability of Mr Ps case losing in court. Calpe referred to its terms and 
conditions, which explain that its able to settle the matter in any way it sees fit, including 
without the policyholders agreement.  
Mr P made a complaint to Calpe, but the complaint wasnt upheld so he referred it to this 
service. Our investigator reviewed everything and explained that its not for our service to 
comment on liability  as thats a matter for a court. But he thought that Calpe had 
prejudiced Mr Ps ability to take the matter to court by accepting liability against Mr Ps 
wishes  so he thought Calpe should recognise this inconvenience by paying Mr P £300 in 
compensation. 
Mr Ps representative explained that they agreed in principle with the investigators findings. 
But they said that the £300 compensation was minimal given that Mr P is now liable for over 
£15,000 in credit hire, storage, and recovery charges. 
As the matter hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I broadly agree with the investigators findings. So I dont 
require Calpe to do anything more than has already been recommended. Ill explain why.
 
As our investigator explained, its not for this service to make a finding on the liability of an 
incident. My remit as an ombudsman doesnt extend to that  as its more appropriate for a 
court to look into that matter. But I can consider whether an insurer treated a consumer 
reasonably overall in the circumstances. 
Ive started by looking at Mr Ps insurance policy terms and conditions. Under the conditions 
related to claims it states:
(iii) The Underwriters can conduct the defence, admit negligence for any accident or claim 
on Your behalf. The Underwriters will also exchange information with other parties involved 
with the incident or claim and to settle any claim or part of the claim without reference to the 
Insured Person. If there is a dispute between the Underwriters and the Insured Person, the 
settlement of the claim shall be as if it were made with the agreement of the Insured Person, 
regardless that such settlement may be made without admission of liability. We will settle all 
claims on the best terms available and keep the claim payment to a minimum as much as is 
possible. You will be liable to pay/repay Your Excess Amount on the basis of such 
settlement notwithstanding that you may not agree with the level of third party damage or 
injury which has been incurred, claimed and paid for.
In effect, this means that Calpe didnt need permission or agreement from Mr P before 
settling a claim, even if Mr P didnt agree with the way in which it was settled. This doesnt 
mean the insurer has a free hand to flagrantly act as it pleases, but its a common feature in 
insurance policies and standard in the insurance industry, so I dont think this is an unfair or 
onerous term that means Mr P has been treated unfairly. 
Turning to whether Calpe acted reasonably in the circumstances, Im satisfied that it did. The 
third party provided photos of the scene of the collision, as well as a statement from an 
independent witness. And without any further evidence to support Mr Ps claim, I think it was 
reasonable for Calpe to make the decision that Mr P would be unlikely to win in any litigation 
process. So I think it was reasonable and rational for Calpe to settle the claim by accepting 
liability for it. I should add that this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr P is to blame for the 
accident  it simply means that Calpe hasnt recovered its total outlay. So in the 
circumstances its correct for the claim to be logged as an at-fault claim against Mr P.
I do however note that Mr Ps representative says that accepting liability for the collision has 
prejudiced Mr Ps ability to take the matter to court. And theyve also highlighted that they 
also let Calpe know that Mr P would be pursuing legal action against the third party, and so 
asked that Calpe didnt accept liability. I do understand why theyve raised this. But its 
important to bear in mind that theres no guarantee that the court wouldve ruled in Mr Ps 
favour  so I cant say that Mr P has lost out on the full value of the claim as a result of this. I 
do, however, agree that Calpe has caused My P to lose out on the opportunity to take the 
matter to court by accepting liability and so I think its fair that Calpe compensates Mr P for 
this.
I should note that Mr Ps representative disagreed with the investigators recommendation of 
£300 compensation as they said this was minimal in the circumstances of Mr P being liable 
for over £15,000 in charges related to the claim. But I havent seen anything to suggest 
thats the case. Whilst Mr P would be liable to pay his policy excess, which I believe is 
£3000, he wouldnt be liable for the overall claim outlay. Thats the responsibility of the 
insurer, and ultimately the purpose of the insurance. So I think the £300 compensation is a 
fair reflection of the loss of opportunity that Mr P faced, and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be 
fair for me to direct Calpe to pay Mr P anything else.   
Putting things right
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr P £300 compensation to reflect the 
loss of opportunity to pursue his claim in court. My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint against Calpe Insurance Company Limited and I require the 
business to do what Ive said above to put things right and settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman