DRN-3315073
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard defaulted his credit card 
account and recorded this information with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA).
What happened
Barclaycard issued Mr K with a default notice on 3 February 2020 after he missed several     
monthly payments to his credit card. 
This prompted a discussion about Mr Ks financial circumstances and an income and 
expenditure breakdown being completed. As a result, Barclaycard agreed to a payment plan 
of £40.00 per month with all interest and charges suspended while Mr K remained on the 
arrangement and made his payments on time. 
Before the payment plan could be set up, it was agreed that Mr K would make two qualifying 
payments  one in February 202 and the second in March 2020. Mr K made the first 
payment on time, but no further payments were made. As a result, Barclaycard registered 
the default and the information was passed to the CRA.  
But Mr K says he tried to contact Barclaycard by phone to make the March payment, but he 
couldnt get through on the phone. He thought it was unfair for the default to be registered 
when Barclaycards phone service wasnt working. He also said Barclaycard had not 
responded to the subsequent complaint he made. 
Barclaycard didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about the default. It acknowledged that its phone 
service had been impacted by the pandemic lockdown restrictions  but, it said there were 
other ways Mr K could have made the payment. It did however uphold Mr Ks concerns 
about the time taken to set up and respond to his complaint. And it credited his credit card 
account with £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience the delay caused. But it 
also said it would pay this amount directly to Mr K if he preferred. 
Mr K didnt accept this and referred his compliant to us. One of our investigators looked into 
things but didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that there were other reasonable alternatives 
available to Mr K to make the payment when he experienced issues getting through to 
Barclaycard by phone. And as he hadnt made the March payment, she didnt think 
Barclaycard had done anything wrong when it defaulted the account. 
Mr K disagreed. He said he said that he couldnt use any of the alternative methods of 
payment as he was never given a sort code and he no longer had a record of his 16-digit 
account number to make a payment by other means. The investigator didnt think this altered 
the outcome she had reached. She said the information Mr K needed was included in the 
correspondence Barclaycard had sent him.   
As Mr K remained unhappy with the outcome reached by the investigator, his complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know Mr K 
will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.  
Firstly, I think its important to say that Ive seen a copy of the default notice sent to Mr K 
after he had missed several payments to his account before the circumstances of this 
complaint arose. And Mr K has not said that he wasnt aware of the default notice. The 
default notice explains the circumstances in which the account can be defaulted, and details 
of this shared with the CRA. So, Im satisfied that Mr K was aware of the consequences of 
not making the agreed payments on time. 
I dont doubt that Mr K wanted to make the agreed March payment. And I can see from the 
evidence hes provided that he was trying to contact Barclaycard by phone and his calls 
werent being answered. But Barclaycard hasnt disputed the problems with its phone 
service. Its explained that this all happened at the start of the pandemic when the lockdown 
restrictions were introduced, and staff were adapting to new ways of working. Given the 
circumstances, I dont think its entirely unexpected that Mr K would have experienced issues 
getting through to Barclaycard on the phone. Staff were being asked to work from home and 
there were staff shortages due to the lockdown isolation requirements. But I think this 
reflects the challenging environment Barclaycard was operating under rather than errors or 
poor service.
But I would expect information about other payment options to be made available to account 
holders both in normal times and in exceptional circumstances - like those described above, 
to minimise any payment problems. And in this respect, Barclaycard has said that it did 
make Mr K aware of the alternative ways he could make payment. As Mr K doesnt agree, 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said. 
I accept that Mr K was told he could make the February and March payments over the 
phone when the payment arrangement was discussed. But Ive not seen anything that would 
make me think he was told there was no other way he could pay. Even if he was told this 
during the call, I think the correspondence Barclaycard sent Mr K  both before and when 
the payment arrangement was agreed, would have made him aware that alternatives 
payment methods were available. While I appreciate some of the options may not have been 
available to Mr K, I think its most likely he couldve used some of them. For example, Ive 
seen that letters included all the information needed to make a payment either in branch or 
on-line  including the sort code needed and Mr Ks 16-digit account number.
Mr K has suggested that he didnt receive some letters. And I can see  from the customer 
notes recorded by Barclaycard that Mr K did provide Barclaycard with a new postal address 
(the same one as we hold on our records). But the letter confirming the payment 
arrangement and options on how to pay was correctly addressed to the address provided by 
Mr K. As it was correctly addressed and sent before the lockdown restrictions came into 
force (i.e. not delayed because of the pandemic), I think Mr K most likely received it. 
I acknowledge making payments in a different way and changes in service can be 
inconvenient for customers  as I appreciate it was for Mr K. But given the importance of 
making the payment, I think Mr K should have attempted to make payment by a different 
method and I think the alternatives offered by Barclaycard were reasonable.
Barclaycard defaulted Mr Ks account in April 2020  after seven payments had been 
missed, in line with the default notice issued in February 2020. As Mr K didnt make the payment due, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong when it defaulted his account. 
This is in line with guidelines set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
I understand the Barclaycard has since passed the outstanding debt to a third party. This is 
something a lender can do. I would urge Mr K to contact the third party  if he hasnt done so 
already, to arrange to repay the outstanding amount. But, taking all the above into account, I 
dont think Barclaycard has treated Mr K unfairly and so I wont be asking it to take any 
further action in respect of the default it registered.  
Barclaycard has acknowledged it could have responded to Mr Ks complaint sooner than it 
did. Its credited Mr Ks account with £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
this amount is fair overall. Barclaycard did subsequently respond to the complaint and Mr K 
wasnt prevented from referring his complaint to us because of the delay. I note Barclaycard 
offered to pay the £100 directly to Mr K if he preferred. Mr K should contact Barclaycard to 
see if this option is still available should he wish to do so. But I wont be asking Barclaycard 
to pay anymore.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman