DRN-3953208
The complaint
A club that Ill refer to as F has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited only paid for one
period of loss following its business interruption insurance claim for multiple periods of
closure.
Mr J has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
What happened
F held business interruption insurance with Aviva. F said it tried to claim on its policy in April
2020 after its business was impacted in March 2020 by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic. F said that a claim was recorded in August 2020.
Aviva said it received Fs claim on 4 September 2020. Aviva initially declined Fs claim as it
didnt think the policy provided cover. Aviva said Fs claim was referred to it again in
February 2021 and it reviewed the claim following the Supreme Court judgment in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys Business Interruption Insurance test case. Aviva accepted Fs
claim and in April 2021 paid F £10,000, which was the policy limit for the extension for
prevention of access and loss of attraction.
F said it had been impacted by a second period of closure from November 2020 and thought
it should receive a further £10,000 as the second lockdown was a separate period of loss
from that which occurred in March 2020.
Aviva said that the second period of lockdown was as a result of the same originating cause
as the first lockdown and therefore it had paid the maximum under the clause. It said there
wasnt any cover under other parts of the policy as the disease clause covered a specified
list of diseases which didnt include Covid-19.
Unhappy with Avivas response, F brought its complaint to us.
F said that the losses were four months apart and so should be considered separate claims.
F said that there were examples in the policy of linked occurrences, all of which refer to a 72
hour period. F also said that the policy provided cover for notifiable human diseases and that
is why Aviva reviewed the claim following the Supreme Court judgment. F was also unhappy
with the time it had taken Aviva to pay its claim.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought the
occurrence of Covid-19 which led to Fs losses in March 2020 was different to the
occurrence which led to the losses in November 2020. He recommended Aviva reconsider
Fs claim for losses from November 2020 and add interest to any settlement.
In response F reiterated its complaint points and let us know about the impact of Avivas
delay in settling the claim. F said that due to the claim not being paid it took out a Bounce
Back Loan (BBL) for £25,000 in May 2020 which it is still repaying. F said it had tried to
discuss its claim with Aviva on numerous occasions, but Aviva had refused to engage.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators recommendation and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. It provided a detailed explanation of why it doesnt think the policy covers a
separate period of loss. In summary, Aviva said that the aggregation clause and definition of
occurrence means that it has paid the amount required by the policy. Aviva said that Fs
losses had all been caused by Covid-19, which was the same originating cause and that
there hadnt been a break in the chain of causation. Aviva said that the examples of
occurrences that F said all had a 72 hour time period werent examples but were specific
limitations deliberately imposed on those circumstances.
Before I considered this complaint, our investigator got in touch with Aviva to ask if it had
reconsidered Fs complaint in light of some recent court judgments - Stonegate Pub
Company Ltd v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm)
(Stonegate), Greggs PLC v Zurich Insurance PLC [2022] EWHC 2545 (Comm) (Greggs) and
Various Eateries Trading Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2002] EWHC 2549 (Comm) (VE).
Amongst other issues, the courts had considered aggregation clauses and whether losses
caused following the lapse of a policy were caused by the same occurrences of Covid-19 as
those which had caused the initial loss in March 2020.
Aviva said it had reviewed Fs claim following the judgments, but its position remained the
same. In summary, it said that the wording of the clause in its policy was materially different
from those considered by the court. Aviva said that the aggregation clause considered in the
Stonegate judgment refers to loss which arises from, is attributable to, or is in connection
with, a single occurrence. Whereas the relevant wording in Fs policy refers to one loss or
series of losses arising out of and directly resulting from one source or original cause, which
is a much wider formulation.
Aviva also said that it thought the Stonegate judgment supported its position because at
paragraph 78 of the judgment the court said there is a considerable amount of authority
relating to aggregating provisions, and to how they should in general be approached. Aviva
said it had made this point in its response, in particular a passage from Lord Mustills
judgment in Axa Reinsurance (UK) plc v Field which makes it clear that there is a contrast
between originating cause type wordings and occurrence or event type wordings. Aviva
said that the choice of one source or original cause wording in the Fs policy is aggregation
language of the broadest kind, which can therefore be distinguished from the wording at
issue in the Stonegate and other related judgments.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 6 January 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining s claim.
Prevention of access and loss of attraction
Fs claim was paid under the clause for prevention of access and loss of attraction. The
relevant part of the clause covers:
v) closure or sealing off of the Premises or any right of way by the police or
other statutory authority which
a) prevents or hinders the use of the Premises or access thereto or, where thePremises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping centre,
prevents or hinders the use of the entire complex development or shopping
centre or access thereto or;
b) causes a reduction in the number of people using the Premises or, where the
Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping centre,
causes a reduction in the number of people using the same
The clause for prevention of access and loss of attraction is listed as an extension to 
the policy. Under the heading Extensions the policy says:
Unless otherwise stated in the Schedule the following Extensions apply.
Extensions may be subject to Sub-limits, which, if applicable, are stated in the
Schedule.
Fs policy schedule has a section regarding sub-limits which says:
Sub-limits form part of the Limit of Liability and, unless otherwise stated do not
apply in addition to it.
All Limits of Liability apply any one Occurrence.
Limits are inclusive of the Excess unless otherwise stated.
If more than one Sub-limit applies to the same loss, the Insurers liability will be
limited to the lesser Sub-limit
The property damage and business interruption section of the policy says that where a word
is set out in bold it has a specific definition. The policy defines occurrence as:
Occurrence means any one loss or a series of losses arising out of and directly
resulting from one source or original cause.
Note: The duration and extent of any one source or original cause shall be
limited to
i)72 consecutive hours as regards earthquake, storm and/or flood.
ii) 72 consecutive hours and within the limits of one city, town or village as
regards riot, civil commotion and malicious damage
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there is a £10,000 limit per claim. It also doesnt
appear to be in dispute that the second lockdown amounted to a closure or sealing off of Fs
premises by a statutory authority which prevented or hindered the use of the premises or
caused a reduction in people using the premises. What is in dispute is whether Aviva has
acted fairly and reasonably in deciding that each period of lockdown resulted from the same
underlying cause and therefore it wont pay anything further for the second period of
lockdown.
As set out in the policy, I think the sub-limit set out in the schedule applies to the clause for
prevention of access and loss of attraction. And the sub-limit says that the limits apply to
only one occurrence. The word occurrence is set out in bold in the schedule and so I think
the policy definition applies. Ive therefore considered whether the second period of
lockdown was as a result of a new occurrence as defined by the policy. Having done so, I
think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in declining to pay for a second claim period. Ill
explain why.
I believe that the occurrences of Covid-19 which led to the first lockdown were different to
the occurrences of Covid-19 which led to the second lockdown. However, the definition of
occurrence in Fs policy also includes any losses or a series of losses arising out of and
directly resulting from one original cause. And even though different instances of the diseaseled to different periods of lockdown, in the context of this policy wording, I consider that the
losses arose from and resulted directly from one original source or cause  i.e. the losses all
arose from Covid-19.
I have considered Fs point about the references to 72 hours within the definition of
occurrence. However, I think these points provide limits for the risks mentioned in the
definition rather than being examples. So I dont think the reference to 72 hours makes a
difference to Fs claim.
Therefore, I intend to find that it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to refuse to pay for a
second claim under this part of the policy.
Other parts of the policy
F has noted that there are other parts of the policy which it thinks might provide cover, in
particular the clause for disease. F said that the reason Aviva waited until after the test case
to settle its claim was because of the disease clause, but I dont think thats correct. Aviva
wrote to F prior to the test case to let it know that the part of the policy impacted by the test
case was the extension for prevention of access and loss of attraction. Ive seen the letter
which also says that the disease clause wouldnt be impacted by the test case.
The disease clause provides cover where there are restrictions on the premises on the order
or advice of a competent authority as a result of, amongst other things, a notifiable disease
at its premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that there was a notifiable disease at Fs
premises prior to the second lockdown which resulted in the restrictions on its premises. So,
I dont think Aviva needs to pay anything under this clause. However, if F believes there was
an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises which resulted in the restrictions, F would need to
raise this with Aviva to consider first.
Contact with Aviva and delays in settling the claim
F is unhappy about the time it took for Aviva to settle its claim and that it still doesnt think
the claim is properly settled. I dont think Aviva needs to pay anything further on Fs claim, so
I do think the claim has been properly settled. However, I do think Aviva took longer than it
should have done to pay Fs claim.
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity
provided by the courts in the test case does not alter the fact that F had a valid claim and
that Avivas decision to decline this in 2020 was incorrect.
Our rules allow me to make, amongst other things, a money award for what I consider to be
fair compensation if a complaint is determined in the favour of the complainant. So Ive
considered whether Avivas delay caused F a financial loss. Having done so, I dont think it
did, Ill explain why.
F has told us that it took out a BBL in May 2020 to cover the amount it would have received
from Aviva in settlement of its claim. I understand that there is 0% interest on the BBL for 12
months which means that F would not have incurred interest on the amount it was without
due to Avivas error until May 2021. However, Aviva paid Fs claim in April 2021 and F could
have paid this amount off its BBL at that point if it wanted to. I also havent seen enough to
persuade me that Aviva turning down Fs claim incorrectly caused such a level of
inconvenience as to award compensation. As such, I dont intend to require Aviva to
compensate F for any delays in settling the claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome F was hoping for but, having considered things verycarefully, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Aviva didnt provide any additional comments in response to my provisional decision but F 
didnt agree. In summary, F said:
When the pandemic arose the UK Government said that insurers would do the right 
thing by businesses. F suggested it should be asked what was meant by this 
because F closed in order to do the right thing for the country. 
There had been a number of instances where Aviva had not answered the phone. F 
had been inconvenienced by the delays in the payment of its claim. F provided 
details of when it had made calls to Aviva.  
My provisional decision said that F could have paid money off its BBL when Aviva 
made the settlement. However, its business suffered losses in excess of £100,000 so 
needed these funds.
F asked whether any future claims would also be considered to be as a result of the 
same underlying cause. 
On 24 January 2023 I let both parties know that the further information from F had 
persuaded me that it had been inconvenienced by Avivas delay in paying its claim. This is 
because I can see it needed to get in touch with Aviva a number of times to resolve its claim 
which should have been paid sooner. I said that I intended to require Aviva to pay F £200 to 
compensate for its inconvenience. 
F did not respond with any further comments. Aviva did not think it was fair to award 
compensation for it not settling the claim before the outcome of the Supreme Court 
judgment. However, it accepted that its communication after agreeing to settle the claim 
could have been more effective and agreed to pay £200 compensation in recognition of that 
point only.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Aviva should pay F £200 compensation for 
inconvenience. Ill explain why Fs other comments havent persuaded me to depart from the 
other findings in my provisional decision. 
I understand that F closed as it was required to by the Government. However, I dont believe 
that the comments made by the Government mean that insurers needed to pay claims which 
arent covered by a policy. I have explained in my provisional decision why I believe that 
Aviva has paid what it needs to under Fs policy and for those reasons I am not going to 
require Aviva to pay Fs claim for losses it incurred from November 2020. Im unable to 
comment on any future claims as the circumstances of those claims would need to be 
considered separately at that time. 
I recognise that Fs losses were greater than the amount owed by Aviva. However, F told us 
that it had taken a loan to cover the amount owed by Aviva. Therefore, F had the money 
during this time and wasnt required to pay interest on it. While it is for F to decide what to do 
with the settlement it received from Aviva, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to require Aviva to pay interest on the settlement amount as F could have used it to pay off 
the money Aviva should have paid it sooner.
Aviva has agreed to pay F £200 compensation as it accepted its communication could have 
been better after its decision to settle Fs claim. I remain of the view that this is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for Aviva to pay F for the unnecessary inconvenience it 
caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Aviva should pay F £200 compensation for its inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay F £200 compensation for inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman