DRN-2253052
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs K are unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc wont pay their landlord/property 
owner insurance claim for malicious/accidental damage to their let property.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs K found tenants for their property in 2018. They didnt carry out any credit 
checks or obtain any references. The tenants claimed to be in employment but Mr G and 
Mrs K received rent payments from the DSS. The last time they were able to inspect the 
property was in late 2018. In June 2019 Mr G was contacted by a neighbour to advise that 
the property looked empty. Mr G regained possession of the property. On inspecting it Mr G 
and Mrs K found the property to be in a very bad state. The tenant had left a large amount of 
abandoned contents. 
Mr G and Mrs K made a claim to Allianz as they believed the damage was caused 
maliciously and/or accidentally. Allianz sent out a loss adjuster who found that the property 
was in a very poor state of repair. Floor coverings were heavily soiled and stained and the 
kitchen and bathroom were in a very poor state of repair. Mr G couldnt produce any 
evidence of the state of the property at the time the tenants moved in. 
Allianz said a large part of the damage was due to neglect by the tenants or attempts at 
carrying out redecoration, and wear and tear and just a general poor state of repair. It didnt 
believe it was malicious. It identified a small number of items as accidental damage. It said it 
would treat these as separate claims and after deduction of excesses totalling £200, it 
offered £220 for two of those items..
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Allianz had acted fairly.
Mr G and Mrs K didnt agree as they believed the damage had been done deliberately by the 
tenants prior to leaving.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Mrs K have cover for damage caused by malicious persons. A malicious person 
is someone who causes damage with the intention of causing harm. There are a large 
number of photographs. They all appear to me to show that the property was in a poor state 
of repair and more particularly that the floors and walls were extremely dirty. In part of the 
property the tenants had peeled off wallpaper and attempted to redecorate. They had 
painted some of the kitchen units. The damage looks to have happened over a long period. 
If there was malicious damage I would expect to see items that looked deliberately to have 
been broken, rather than as here just neglected and poorly maintained. For example, the 
garden was substantially overgrown. And no matter how misguided, attempts at painting and 
decorating arent malicious. There is cover for removing tenants contents but only as a 
consequence of damage under the policy. I dont think the damage can be covered under 
the malicious persons term in the policy. Ive noted that Mr G and Mrs K cant show us any 
evidence of the state of the property at the time the tenants moved in.
Turning to the accidental damage, there are five items which Allianz proposed treating as 
separate claims. Only two such items would cost more than the £100 excess for each claim - 
a broken window and a damaged fire surround for which Allianz proposed to pay £220, net 
of the excesses. The other three items were skirting pulled away in the kitchen, holes in the 
bathroom wall and the lounge window handle had snapped. If it appears likely that the 
damage happened on separate occasions, then it is fair to treat them as separate claims. In 
this case each of the items were in different rooms, so it seems more likely that they would 
have happened on different occasions. So, I think that Allianzs offer for accidentally 
damaged items was reasonable. If Mr G and Mrs K want to accept the offer, they should 
contact Allianz directly.
Overall I think that the damage to Mr G and Mrs Ks property hasnt been shown to be 
malicious, and that Allianzs offer in respect of the accidental damage is fair.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman