DRN-3521273
The complaint and what happened
Mr E complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont fully reimburse him for money he lost when he 
fell victim to an investment scam. Although Barclays has reimbursed some money to Mr E, 
he complains there is still an amount outstanding in relation to a loan, which he was 
persuaded to take out and which the scammers also used. 
Mr E was recently bereaved and had been a left some money which was split between him 
and his brother. He was contacted by a company that informed him a prior crypto investment 
had grown in value and that he needed to pay to access it. And on 27 April 2021, he made a 
number of payments to crypto exchanges totalling £9,402.  These show on Mr Es statement 
for 28 April 2021. Mr E was also persuaded to take out a loan for £7,500 which also showed 
on his statement as a credit on 28 April 2021. Mr E says this amount, in addition to the 
£9,402, was also paid to the scammers. 
Mr E subsequently complained to Barclays about being scammed. But matters werent 
initially progressed as they should have been. It ultimately refunded £8,402 in September 
2021 and paid Mr E £100 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the matter had. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the outcome as he believes Barclays still needs to refund him for the 
loan that was taken out and also used towards the scam  the refund paid so far doesnt 
cover that.  When sending its file, Barclays didnt accept it need to make any further refund 
in relation to the loan borrowing. But it did recognise that Mr E had made some repayments 
to the loan that he should be compensated for. It therefore offered £726.48 and another 
£100 for the further delays. 
Mr E didnt accept the offer. So our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. 
Although she wasnt persuaded Barclays needed to refund the loan amount, as she was 
satisfied the loan was actually used to make the payments to the crypto exchanges, she 
found the refund was around £1,000 short and so she asked Barclays to refund that 
alongside interest, in addition to the offer it had made. 
Barclays agreed to that resolution of the complaint, but Mr E didnt. Mr E is convinced the 
loan was credited to his account after the payments had already been made to the crypto 
exchanges, and then the £7,500 was also used by the scammer. In support of this, he sent 
in a screen shot from his banking app, which showed the loan crediting his account in the 
late evening on 28 April. 
We asked for further information from Barclays, which showed the loan actually credited Mr 
Bs account on 27 April, the day before the statement indicated. We provided this evidence 
to Mr E, but he remains convinced the loan has yet to be reimbursed. Hes also questioned 
whether the additional loss might have come from one of his savings accounts ending 530. 
The matter has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for review and determination. We have 
also obtained the savings account statements for the relevant period, none of which show 
any payments to a crypto exchange.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr E has been scammed. And Barclays has 
agreed its liable to Mr E for the transactions in question. It has already refunded Mr E £8,402 
and agreed to the investigators recommendations. Therefore the only matter left for me to 
consider is whether the redress already paid, and the further redress proposed, is a fair 
resolution to the complaint. 
I think it would be helpful if I explain that the date a transaction appears on a statement, or 
on a banking app, isnt necessarily the date a transaction actually occurred. 
Mr Es statement for his current account, shows a date next to all of the disputed 
transactions of 28 April  although it also records the transactions as occurring on 27 April. 
The statement also shows a loan crediting his account, for £7,500, and two credits totalling 
£2,000 from his savings account ending 530, on 28 April. There is no corresponding £7,500 
debit from the account following the loan being credited. Mr E also transferred £2,000 back 
to his savings account ending 530 on 29 April. 
That means the total amount showing as sent to the crypto exchanges from Mr Es current 
account was £9,402. Although Mr E is sure there were more, his statements dont support 
that. And Mr E hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that his statements are wrong, or 
that £7,500 was sent to the scam in addition to £9,402. 
The balance of the account before Mr E started making the disputed transactions wouldnt 
have allowed all of the payments to be made without going into a debit balance (or overdraft) 
 it was a little over £1,100. And Barclays has provided information from its records which 
shows the loan actually credited Mr Es account in the late evening on 27 April. 
Barclays records also show Mr E called the bank in the late afternoon on 28 April 2021 to 
report the transactions. I am aware the screen shot Mr E provided showed the loan credited 
his account in the very late evening on 28 April. But if that is what happened that would 
mean Mr E had agreed to take out the loan and allowed the scammers to use it, without 
there being any evidence of its use, after he was aware of the scam and had reported 
transactions to the bank. I consider that to be highly unlikely.  
Im therefore satisfied from the evidence provided, that its more likely than not, that the loan 
was taken out at the beginning of the scam, and it was the proceeds of the loan that were 
used to make the majority of the £9,402 payments. I accept the statements show a different 
ordering of events, but as explained above, that can sometimes be the case. 
Mr E has also argued that the scammer persuaded him to transfer money from his savings 
account, and questions whether some transactions to the crypto exchanges as part of the 
scam, came from the same savings account as well. As mentioned above, and as Mr E will 
be able to see from his statements, he only transferred £2,000 from account ending 530, but 
he never used that towards the disputed payments, and he transferred the same total sum 
back on 29 April. So he hasnt lost that £2,000. 
We also asked Barclays to provide a copy of the bank statements for account ending 530 for 
the period in question. Although the statements show transfers to other accounts from 19 
April to 28 April, I can see much of that was money sent to Mr Es brother via his current 
account, but that other large sums were transferred to accounts ending 1040 and 232 in and 
amongst other smaller transfers. There were no payments sent directly from the savings account to crypto exchanges, or therefore towards the scam.   
Overall, therefore, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that £7,500 was sent to the 
scam in addition to the £9,402 sent to crypto exchanges, I agree the redress already paid, 
and Barclays agreement to the investigators recommendation, are a fair resolution to this 
complaint. 
Barclays also offered £100 as an apology for not raising a complaint sooner and for the 
further delays experienced. I find this a fair reflection of the impact that had. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC. I require 
it to pay Mr E:
£1,000 as the shortfall from the loss from the scam investment; and
£726.48, that it offered to refund from the repayments towards the loan; and
Add 8% simple interest from the date of the payments to the date of settlement (less 
any lawfully deductible tax). 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman