DRN-3658653
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Volkswagen Financial Services Limited (VW) unfairly entered 
into a guarantee and indemnity agreement with him, which left him as the guarantor on a 
hire-purchase agreement his step-sister entered into. 
Background
In October 2018, Mr Cs step-sister (who Ill refer to as X) entered into a hire-purchase 
agreement with VW to purchase a car. The purchase price was £15,094.00. X paid a deposit 
of £1,400.00 and the remaining £13,694.00 was funded by a hire-purchase agreement with 
VW. 
The finance was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments (or rentals) of £203.62 and a 
final instalment (or rental) of £5,827.50. This meant that the total charge for the credit was 
£1,907.26, and the total amount to be repaid, minus the deposit, was £15,601.25. VW 
declined an initial application from X and wasnt prepared to lend to her without her first 
bringing onboard a guarantor. 
As a result, Mr C was approached by X to act as her guarantor and after VW approved him, 
Mr C signed a guarantee and indemnity agreement with VW  which essentially meant that 
he would also become responsible for making payments to the agreement in the event that 
X didnt do so.   
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. He told VW that he thought that it was 
unfair for it to have accepted Mr C as a guarantor on this agreement and upheld the 
complaint. 
VW disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. As 
this is the case the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about guarantor loans as well as 
guarantee and indemnity agreements - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when VW lent to X required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay this loan. The existence 
of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the potential for VW to pursue Mr C, instead of 
the borrower, for the loan payments (as well as the security on the vehicle sold) didnt alter, 
lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
As X isnt a party to this complaint, I dont have any evidence of the checks that VW carried 
out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to her. But the lack of 
information from both VW and the borrower on this matter doesnt lessen the problem here, 
as VW is seeking to enforce the guarantee and indemnity agreement. And Mr C had been 
called upon to make the payments. 
Its fair to say that VW entered into an atypical arrangement with Mr C. I say this because 
guarantee and indemnity agreements are more typically used by guarantor loan providers, 
when entering fixed-sum loans with all its customers. Such agreements arent typically 
entered into where a borrower has already been assessed for credit and that application has 
been refused by a lender. I think that its also worth me pointing out that its incredibly rare 
for such a guarantee and indemnity agreement to be required on a hire-purchase agreement 
as the goods being purchased themselves act as a form of security for the loan. Ive 
considered Mr Cs complaint in this context.
Although I dont have the full detail behind the checks VW carried out on X before it 
eventually agreed to lend to her, what I do know is that she only sought Mr Cs assistance 
once VW had declined an initial application for finance from her. As I understand it Xs initial 
application was declined because she was living with parents (as I believe Mr C was), was 
young, her signature didnt match with her driving licence and shed only just started 
employment as a result of previously being a student. 
So it seems to me that VW had clear concerns about Xs ability to make the payments to this 
agreement and thats why it declined her initial application. And while I accept that the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement might have provided VW with additional confidence that 
it would at least receive its payments, I dont see how see how this increased Xs ability to 
make her payments. 
Im also particularly mindful that the guarantee and indemnity agreement reduced the 
incentive for VW to take possession of the vehicle from X, as it would normally be entitled to, 
in the event of non-payment as it could instead pursue Mr C for the payments under the 
guarantee and indemnity. Indeed, at the time it responded to our investigators assessment, 
VW still hadnt taken possession of the vehicle despite X having been in significant and 
sustained arrears. 
Furthermore, Mr C didnt have the statutory protections X had to limit his liability, such as 
Voluntary Termination which is afforded under hire-purchase agreements, because he 
wasnt a party to the underlying agreement. I dont think it was fair and reasonable for VW to 
enter into a guarantee and indemnity agreement with Mr C in these circumstances  
especially when it appears as though it already had concerns about Xs ability to make the 
payments.   
Finally, notwithstanding my concerns regarding the fairness of VW entering into a guarantee 
and indemnity agreement with Mr C when it had concerns about Xs ability to make the 
payments to the agreement, VW, in any event, needed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C could make the payments in the event he had 
to. As I understand it, VW approved Mr C as the guarantor for this agreement simply  
because his application came back with the second highest approval rating. It looks like this 
approval rating was based on a credit check that VW carried out which showed that the 
credit commitments in Mr Cs name were being maintained.
Ive thought about the checks that VW carried out on Mr C.
However, its unclear to me what a credit check on its own could possibly have told VW 
about Mr Cs ability to repay just over £15,600.00 at over £200 a month in the event he had 
to. Mr C might have been making payments to existing credit. But this on its own doesnt mean he had the disposable income to make the repayments to this agreement, as well 
meet his own commitments, in the event he had to. 
VW almost presents it as fact that Mr C being a young adult meeting his credit commitments 
means he would have been able to meet the payments. But I disagree and I dont 
understand how it could possibly have reached this conclusion  notwithstanding the 
application having been approved by its systems  without taking any steps to verify Mr Cs 
monthly income, his employment and non-credit related expenditure.
Indeed, had VW carried out enquiries into Mr Cs income it would have seen that he wasnt 
in employment and that he was relying on out of work benefits to support himself. Im not 
saying that a lender should automatically decline an application from a prospective borrower 
where they are on benefits. But Mr C wasnt the borrower here and him being on out of work 
benefits does raise significant questions about his ability to make the payments to this 
agreement as well as meet all of his own commitments.  
In these circumstances, I think that had VW carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
into Mr Cs circumstances,  it would also more likely than not have realised that Mr C wasnt 
really in a position to act as a guarantor on this agreement. And as this is the case, I think 
that VWs failure to properly look into Mr Cs circumstances is a further reason why it didnt 
act fairly and reasonably towards Mr C when it accepted him as the guarantor to this hire-
purchase agreement.      
So overall and having considered everything, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that VW didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr C when entering into a guarantee and 
indemnity agreement and accepting him as a guarantor to Xs hire-purchase agreement. As 
Mr C is, at least, being expected to make payments to a hire-purchase agreement that he 
was unfairly accepted as a guarantor on, I find that he has lost out as a result of what VW 
did wrong. 
Fair compensation  what VW needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for VW to put things right by:
releasing Mr C from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it;
refunding any payments that Mr C may have made to Xs hire-purchase agreement;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Mr C, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of these 
agreements;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires VW to take off tax from this interest. VW must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Volkswagen Financial 
Services Limited should put things right for Mr C in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman