DRN-3515049
The complaint
Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its account.
Mr P is the owner of Q and has brought this complaint on its behalf 
What happened
Mr P has three companies that held separate accounts with Barclays, each of which were 
subject to closure and have formed part of Mr Ps complaint to this service. Ive recently 
decided on another complaint about Mr Ps other business, in which I outlined the 
background of the complaint. As this is known to both sides, I wont go over the details again 
here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not upheld the complaint for the following reasons:
When considering a complaint I first need to decide if a business has got something 
wrong. And where I find it has, Ill then consider what it should do to put things right. 
Here, Ive not found that Barclays has got something wrong. 
Banks are free to choose who they offer accounts to and can make commercial 
decisions to end relationships with customers as they see fit. This service wouldnt 
usually interfere with these decisions unless they were unlawful or if the bank hadnt 
given the required notice.
In the terms and conditions for Qs account it says Barclays may choose to close the 
account but will give its customers two months notice if it does. Ive seen that 
Barclays informed Mr P of the closure in November 2021 and the account closed at 
the end of March 2022. So Im satisfied it did all it needed to in line with these terms 
and therefore I find it acted fairly.
I can see that the closure of the account and others linked to Mr P, have caused him 
and his businesses a significant amount of distress and inconvenience. And while I 
sympathise greatly with his position, as Ive not found Barclays acted unfairly I cant 
hold it responsible for the impact of the closures. 
For these reasons I think Barclays acted fairly by choosing to close Qs account and I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
Q, to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman