DRN-3327239
The complaint
Mr W complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under his home 
emergency policy. His complaint is that British Gas failed to diagnose the cause of a water 
leak at his property, causing damage. Also, that they caused additional damage when trying 
to fix the leak.
What happened
Mr W had a home emergency policy with British Gas, covering kitchen appliances, plumbing 
and drains and home electricals. In December 2020 British Gas engineers attended Mr Ws 
property to carry out repair work on some kitchen appliances. But in carrying out the work 
they damaged a kitchen unit housing a microwave and unplugged Mr Ws freezer, causing 
the contents to spoil.
 
In February 2021, Mr W noticed water running down walls and ceiling and contacted British 
Gas. A plumber was sent to investigate and concluded that the cause of the water leak was 
the grouting and sealant around the bath. But Mr W says this was at the opposite end of the 
bathroom from where the water damage first appeared. 
Mr W then noticed water running down the staircase walls and ceiling. He again contacted 
British Gas, who sent round a second plumber. He said the cause was the toilet supply pipe 
at the opposite end of the bathroom to where the first plumber had though the leak had 
occurred. He carried out repairs, but later that day water started to flow out of the water 
closet cistern. A third plumber attended who was able to fix the leak successfully. 
Unhappy at what had happened, and the damage caused to his property, Mr W complained 
to British Gas. He asked for reimbursement for the losses he said hed incurred, including 
the spoilt food, replacement meals and the costs of repairing the ceiling and redecoration. 
 
British Gas upheld Mr Ws complaint in part. On the issue of the damage from the leak, they 
said that the damage was consequential to the leak and as such a claim would need to be 
made under Mr Ws home insurance policy. On the issue of delays in fixing the problem they 
offered £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W (from the 
need for a third visit to fix the problem).
Mr W then complained to this service. The main points of his complaint were that 
British Gas had failed to diagnose the cause of the leak properly despite two 
engineers visiting the property to fix the problem. Only on the third visit was the issue 
correctly diagnosed and fixed. Mr W was also unhappy at the damage caused and 
wanted British Gas to pay in full for the repairs needed to fix the damage. Mr W was 
also unhappy at the stress that the incident had caused on him and his wife.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, concluding British Gas didnt need to 
take any action. She noted British Gas had accepted liability for the damage caused 
to the kitchen in the first incident and referred this part of the complaint to their Claim 
Management Unit for them to consider. They had asked for details of the cost of the 
spoilt food and replacement meals for them to consider. The investigator thought this 
fair. On the issue of damage from the leak from the second incident, the investigator 
concluded that the home emergency policy didnt cover damage arising from escapes 
of water (or other types of damage normally covered by home insurance policies). 
Based on this, the investigator didnt think British Gas were liable for the cost of 
damage caused by the water leak and theyd acted fairly when they said they 
wouldnt reimburse the cost of repairs (and that Mr W should make a claim for the 
damage under his home insurance policy).
Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He believed the damage was caused after the second plumbers visit, due to 
his misdiagnosis of the problem. He didnt want to claim on his home insurance policy and 
as he thought that British Gas had caused the damage, they should pay for the repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr W.
There are two separate incidents in Mr Ws complaint to British Gas (and his subsequent 
complaint to this service). Ill consider them in turn.
The first is the repairs carried out to kitchen appliances in December 2020. Mr W says that 
British Gas damaged a kitchen unit housing a microwave and disconnected appliances, 
including his freezer (causing the contents to spoil). Looking at what happened, British Gas 
have accepted they should meet the costs arising from this incident, saying their Claims 
Management Unit will consider a claim from Mr W if hes able to supply details of the costs 
incurred. Ive thought about what happened and British Gass response. I think its fair and 
reasonable for them to consider a claim from Mr W for the losses hes incurred, so I wont be 
asking them to take any further action.
The second (which Mr W told us is his main concern) is the leak of water and the resulting 
damage, together with the visits by three different plumbers before the problem was 
successfully diagnosed and fixed. Mr W is unhappy at the damage caused by the leak, 
particularly that after the visit of the second plumber when the leak returned. He thinks that 
the plumbers sent by British Gas didnt diagnose the problem correctly until the visit of the 
third plumber. As such, he thinks British Gas should pay for the damage from the leaks and 
the consequent repair work and redecoration. British Gas have accepted that they caused 
distress and inconvenience (from having to send out a third plumber) and have offered £200 
compensation. But they dont believe they should pay for the water damage from the leaks, 
but that it should be something for Mr W to claim through his home insurance policy. 
  
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the information and evidence available. 
On balance Ive concluded that British Gas have acted fairly and reasonably, so I wont be 
asking them to take any further action. Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
On the issue of whether British Gas should pay for the damage from the leaks (as Mr W 
maintains) then Ive considered the nature of home emergency policies of the type Mr W had 
with British Gas. Their purpose is to provide assistance to fix a range of problems that can 
arise, depending on the nature of cover taken out. They arent intended to cover 
consequential damage from the kind of problems the policies are intended to fix. More 
specifically, the home emergency policy held by Mr W contains, under a heading General 
exclusions, the following term:
Any damage thats covered by other kinds of insurance Your product doesnt include repairing or replacing any damage caused by extreme 
weather, flooding, escape of water, structural issues, fire or explosion  or any other 
kind of damage thats normally covered buy household insurance
I think this makes it clear that damage caused by leaks (escape of water) wouldnt be 
covered by the home emergency policy. The expectation is that it would be covered by a 
home insurance policy (where escape of water would be typically be an insured peril or 
event covered under the policy). While I can understand why Mr W might be reluctant to 
make a claim under his home insurance policy, based on what hes told us, I dont think 
thats a reason for him not making such a claim, or for British Gas to have to pay for repairs.
However, I have considered Mr Ws view that British Gas caused the damage through their 
misdiagnosis of the cause of the leak, so should pay for the damage. Ive looked at the 
evidence on this point. There was an escape of water that caused Mr W to contact British 
Gas at the time of the first leak. From what Ive seen, the leak subsequently stopped, with Mr 
W telling our investigator that he stopped using the bathroom and there was no visible 
damage. But then there was a second leak. At that point the second plumber attended (in 
the afternoon of the day in question). Mr W subsequently contacted British Gas later the 
same day when there was a leak from the toilet. The third plumber attended in the evening 
of the same day, fixing the leak. 
Ive considered whether British Gas could reasonably be held directly responsible for 
causing any of the leaks (and any damage that resulted). Arguably that might have been the 
case for the leak after the second plumbers visit (but before the third visit that fixed the 
problem). Ive considered this point, including the photographs of the damage provided by 
Mr W. Ive also considered that the time between the leak following the second visit and the 
third visit was only a few hours. Im not persuaded that all the damage would have occurred 
in this period (as opposed to the time before the first leak and before the second leak being 
noticed and British Gas attending). Based on these factors, Ive concluded that British Gas 
cant reasonably be held to be responsible for the damage.
Ive also considered the question of compensation. British Gas offered Mr W £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of there having to be a third visit to fix the 
leak. Ive also considered the fact that the third visit took place on the same day as the 
second, within a couple of hours of Mr W contacting British Gas. Taking these points into 
account, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman