DRN-4213757
The complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building Society lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2020 Miss W applied for a credit card. Nationwide approved the application 
and gave Miss W a card with an initial credit limit of £2400. 
Miss W complained that Nationwide lent to her irresponsibly.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had completed proportionate checks before 
lending to Miss W.
Miss W remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Nationwide had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Miss W and that the lending decision 
was fair.
Miss W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ws complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, Nationwide needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss W could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. 
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks completed by Nationwide. Miss W declared annual income of 
£24,000 in her application. She also declared housing expenses of £150.87 per month. 
Nationwide calculated Miss Ws monthly disposable income as £927.32. Nationwide also 
carried out a credit check. This showed that Miss W had unsecured debt of around £900.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Nationwide were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything in the information gathered from the checks which 
wouldve given Nationwide cause for concern, or which meant that further checks shouldve 
been carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Theres nothing in the 
information gathered from the checks to suggest that Miss W was struggling to repay her 
debts or that she was overly reliant on credit. Nor is there anything to suggest that she 
wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the loan or that it wasnt affordable for her.
For these reasons I think the lending decision was fair. Im therefore unable to say that 
Nationwide lent to Miss W irresponsibly.
I understand that Miss Ws financial circumstances have changed since she took out the 
card. However, I dont think Nationwide could reasonably have foreseen this at the time of 
the lending decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman