DRN-3140799
The complaint
Mr H complains that TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly and without carrying out 
proper affordability checks in April 2015. TM Advances has accepted that and refunded the 
interest and charges associated with the loan. However, Mr H doesnt think thats enough, 
and would also like some of the principal amount he borrowed refunded to him.
What happened
Soon after this loan was taken, Mr Hs financial problems became such that he chose to 
enter an IVA, and encountered many years of significant distress and ill health. It seems that 
at least some, if not most, of the problems which led to this situation were caused by his 
gambling addiction. TM Advances was one of the businesses to whom Mr H owed money 
when he entered the IVA.
He complained to TM Advances in 2020 that it shouldnt have given him this loan. It agreed 
and offered to refund the interest and charges, which significantly reduced the amount that 
Mr H owed it. It then later wrote off that remaining balance from the capital.
Mr H doesnt believe he should have to pay back all the capital he borrowed, which was 
£3,000. Due to the interest refund and then the write off, hes effectively paid back about 
£2,500 of the £3,000. He doesnt think thats fair, due to the suffering he went through. He 
thinks he should only have to pay back half of what he borrowed, so TM Advances should 
pay him a further sum just under £1,000.
The investigator thought TM Advances had done enough and didnt need to pay Mr H any 
more. He doesnt accept that and has asked an ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
TM Advances accepts that it shouldnt have given Mr H this loan, and has refunded the 
interest, along with ultimately writing off the final balance of the principal loan itself.
The starting point for this service where something has gone wrong is to do whatever is 
practicable to put the consumer (Mr H) back in the position in which he would have been 
had things gone right. That is, if TM Advances hadnt given him the £3,000 loan.
But where a consumer has had and spent the money s/he borrowed, it generally 
wouldnt be fair to say that s/he should not have to pay that money back. Essentially, it is 
usually most fair and reasonable to direct a business to take steps so that the loan 
becomes interest free, and so doesnt cost the consumer any more than the money they 
were advanced.
Very occasionally, I might direct a business to write off the principal loan as well. But that 
would be in circumstances where that business should have clearly known that granting 
the loan would cause identifiable harm to that consumer.
I entirely accept the truly horrible time Mr H has had in the last few years, and that 
having to enter an IVA was a big trigger for that. But to conclude it is fair for TM 
Advances to pay back any more of the principal (bearing in mind its already written off 
more than £500 of the actual loan) Id need to be satisfied that this loan was the cause 
of the IVA; that TM Advances should have known the extent of Mr Hs gambling problem; 
and that he wouldnt have been able to get any money to gamble from anywhere else. 
Put simply, that this loan itself was at least the main cause of all his distress. So, 
therefore, that TM Advances mistake was responsible for it.
There is no evidence to support that. Its clear that Mr H was borrowing widely, including 
from friends and family, and that no individual loan led him to enter the IVA. There 
appear to have been many creditors included from the evidence hes sent, and I can see 
that he had many outstanding loans at that time. So its therefore not reasonable to say 
that TM Advances was to blame for him entering the IVA.
Overall, it wouldnt be fair for me to hold TM Advances responsible for the undoubtedly 
dreadful time Mr H has had. Its clear from all the evidence Ive seen that there were 
many and varied causes of those serious problems. So I wont be asking it to do any 
more than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and TM Advances doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman