DRN-3350804
The complaint
D complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their decision to freeze the 
company accounts following a dispute about a director withdrawal.
Ds complaint has been brought to us by one of its former directors, who Ill refer to as C 
throughout the decision. Ds current director has provided C with authority to do so.
What happened
D held two accounts with NWB, a Business Current Account (BCA) and a Business Reserve 
Account (BRA). 
On 16 August 2017, C attended a local branch of NWB and requested for two payments of 
£20,000 and £5,000 to be transferred from Ds BRA to their own personal account. C stated 
this transfer was for a share of Ds profits. NWB approved this request, and the funds were 
withdrawn.
But shortly after, NWB were contacted by another of Ds directors at the time, who Ill refer to 
as X. X stated that C wasnt authorised to complete this transaction without their approval, 
as shown from the account mandate which required both directors to sign and confirm any 
withdrawals. NWB looked into this and agreed, believing they had made a mistake when 
allowing C to make the withdrawal. So, they asked C to return the funds to the BRA. But C 
refused to do so and because of this, X opened a legal dispute with C.
While this dispute was ongoing, NWB took the decision to freeze the company accounts, so 
no further withdrawals could be made. And as C refused to return the funds, NWB refunded 
the withdrawn amount into the BRA themselves. The dispute between C and X was settled 
out of court in October 2018 and the accounts were unfrozen at this point. But C was 
unhappy with this, so raised a complaint on behalf of D.
C thought NWB acted unfairly when deciding to freeze Ds accounts. They explained D had 
been unable to trade and had lost earnings worth up to £350,000. So, he thought NWB 
should cover this financial loss. C was also unhappy that they were able to access Ds online 
accounts after they had been removed as director.
NWB responded and upheld Ds complaint. They recognised they had allowed C to withdraw 
funds without Xs co-authorisation which went against the terms of the mandate. And they 
agreed C should not have been able to access Ds online accounts after theyd been 
removed as a director. So, they offered D £500 to recognise any impact this had. But they 
didnt agree with C that they were wrong to ask them to repay the funds into Ds BRA, as the 
mandate clearly stated in required both signatories approval. And they didnt think they were 
unfair to freeze the company accounts, as this was done to safeguard funds while X and Cs 
dispute was ongoing. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. C didnt agree, 
so they referred Ds complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised NWB had 
already accepted allowing C to withdraw funds from the BRA without Xs consent was a 
mistake. So, they didnt consider this further. Instead, they thought about NWBs decision to 
freeze Ds accounts. And they thought this decision was reasonable, as NWB had a duty to 
protect and safeguard Ds funds which were under dispute. Our investigator recognised this 
went on for a significant period, but they didnt think NWB were responsible for this, as it was 
X and C that continued with the dispute for that period of time until a settlement was 
reached. So, our investigator thought the £500 NWB had offered D was a fair one to 
recognise the impact their initial mistake at allowing the withdrawal had, alongside Cs 
access to Ds online accounts after they had been removed as a director. So, our 
investigator didnt think NWB needed to do anything more.
C didnt agree, on Ds behalf. C thought they had been authorised to withdraw the funds 
without Xs approval. And they disputed the validity of the mandate NWB referred to, which 
has been initialled by branch staff. So, they maintained their belief that the accounts had 
been frozen unfairly, as no mistake had occurred when the funds were withdrawn. As D 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to explain clearly what Ive been able to consider. Although I recognise C feels 
strongly about this complaint and has been impacted individually by the dispute between 
themselves and X, it is D who is the direct customer of NWB. And as D is a limited company, 
it is its own legal entity. So, Im only able to consider the impact on D from any mistakes 
NWB made.
And Im aware NWB have already accepted they made a mistake when they allowed C to 
withdraw £25,000 from Ds BRA. C, on behalf of D, disputes this as they believe the 
mandate on the account allowed either signatory to the account to make withdrawals. But 
Ive seen the mandate. And I think it shows clearly that the BRA was a dual signatory 
account, requiring both signatories to approve any withdrawals. While I appreciate C 
disputes the validity of this mandate, I have no evidence to show me this mandate has been 
manipulated or altered without Cs consent. NWB have confirmed the initials on the mandate 
were added when changes were made by branch staff. And that this mandate was the only 
copy held on file from the account opening, until a mandate change was made in November 
2018, after X and Cs dispute had been settled. Ive seen screenshots from NWBs system 
which satisfies me this was the case.
So, I dont think NWB shouldve allowed C to withdraw the funds and that is was a mistake 
for them to do so, as theyve already accepted.
After this mistake was identified, Ive seen NWB requested C return the withdrawn funds to 
the account. But C didnt agree to do so and so, a dispute arose between C and X. D doesnt 
think NWB acted fairly by deciding to freeze the accounts at this point. So, Ive thought about 
this at length. And I dont agree.
From the system notes Ive seen which detail correspondence from both C and X to NWB regarding Ds accounts and the funds contained within them, I think it was reasonably clear 
there was a significant dispute between them. And as this dispute revolved around their 
entitlement to Ds funds, I think NWB took fair and proportionate action by freezing the 
accounts to safeguard the funds they contained. 
I appreciate the accounts were frozen for a significant length of time. And that it wouldve 
been difficult to trade during this time, as debits were unable to be made from the accounts. 
But I dont it would be fair for me to hold NWB responsible for the length of time it took for X 
and C to reach a settlement to their dispute. Both X and C wouldve known during the 
ongoing dispute that it was likely the accounts would remain frozen until the dispute was 
settled. And as directors of D, I think they had a responsibility to ensure they acted in Ds 
best interests. So, I think any losses D incurred resulted from the actions and decision of X 
and C, rather than NWB. And while I appreciate C may hold X responsible, this is part of the 
civil dispute that was settled out of court in 2018. It is not something our service is able to 
consider, or comment upon.
So, any award or direction I make will be based solely on NWBs initial decision to process 
the withdrawal without the correct authorisation, not the fact the accounts were frozen.
Ive also seen since the dispute was settled, C left D as a director but was still able to access 
Ds online account. Again, NWB have accepted this mistake and proceeded to remove this 
access. But I wouldve expected this access to be removed as soon as they were notified C 
was no longer director and so, I think this should also be considered apart of any award or 
direction I make.
To recognise both mistakes, NWB have offered D £500 to compensate it for any 
inconvenience its been caused. And I think this offer is a fair one, and in line with what I 
wouldve awarded had it not already been put forward.
I think it adequately compensates D for the inconvenience it wouldve been caused when C 
was allowed to withdraw funds without the correct authorisation and the short-term financial 
impact it had that NWB are responsible for. And I think it also covers the potential data 
breach caused when C was able to access Ds account when they shouldnt have been able 
to.
But I think it also takes into consideration the fact NWB acted swiftly to recognise their 
mistake and ask C to return the funds, which C refused to do and NWB were unable to 
enforce. As well as taking into consideration the fact NWB chose to return the funds to 
minimise the amount of time D were without them. And it also factors in NWBs response to 
Ds complaint regarding Cs access to the account and the fact this access was removed 
within a reasonable amount of time. So, because of the above, I dont think NWB need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ds complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman