DRN-3521378
The complaint
D, a limited company, is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited
(AESEL)(AMEX) reported incorrect information to a credit reference agency relating to its
previous Business Gold Card.
D is also unhappy that AMEX refused to register a complaint over the phone when instructed
to do so, and then also ignored his subsequent letters of complaint. Finally, D is unhappy
that AMEX lost documents containing sensitive financial information.
What happened
D opened an AMEX Business Gold Card in May 2018. This card was cancelled not long
afterwards, in January 2019.
D then applied for a new Business Gold Card on 27 August 2019. However, this application
was declined by Amex. D wrote to AMEX on 4 October 2019 to express its disappointment in
the rejected application which it was told was due to information AMEX retrieved from
a credit reference agency.
D felt that this must be a mistake, as it was confident in its credit profile, and asked AMEX to
reconsider. D provided financial documents to AMEX and explained that the first Business
Gold Card, taken in May 2018, had been set up under an incorrectly named and categorised
profile.
D noted that AMEX were reporting two separate profiles to the credit reference agencies,
instead of just one profile as should have been the case and requested that the profile and
information AMEX were reporting to Experian about this earlier account be corrected as it
was affecting Ds ability to obtain credit.
D didnt receive a response from AMEX, so it called them in December 2019. D wanted to
know whether AMEX had looked into his request but received no meaningful explanation
and was told to wait for 60 days  despite having already waited longer than 60 days since
initially sending the request to AMEX.
D wasnt happy about this and requested that a complaint be raised, but AMEXs
representative wouldnt record a complaint and told D that it would have to raise a complaint
online. D sent letters of complaint to AMEX but still didnt receive a response. So, it referred
its complaint to this service. A complaint was raised with AMEX on Ds behalf by this service.
AMEX looked at Ds complaint, but they could find no record of a pervious Business Gold
Card and declined to comment on why Ds application in August 2019 had been declined.
D wasnt satisfied with AMEXs response and asked this service to proceed with its
complaint referral. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They were able to
establish that D had had an earlier Business Gold Card and that AMEX were reporting two
profiles to the credit reference agency, as D had claimed.
Furthermore, our investigator felt that AMEX had unfairly refused to record a complaint by D,
and that AMEXs general standard of service to D had been of an unreasonably poor quality.
So, our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in Ds favour, and that
AMEX should correct the reporting it was making to the credit reference agencies and pay D
£300 for the inconvenience it had incurred.
AMEX didnt confirm whether or not it agreed with the recommendations put forward by our
investigator, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 August 2021 as follows:
Its clear that the general standard of service that AMEX have provided to D here 
hasnt been to the standard that would be expected by this service. And this includes 
AMEX not being able find record of D opening the earlier Business Gold Card and 
also being unable to find any record of telephone calls that D made to AMEX 
regarding this ongoing issue  although D has been able to provide this service with 
their own recordings of these conversations and confirmation that the earlier 
Business Gold Card did exist.
D has been in direct correspondence with one of the credit reference agencies who
have confirmed that AMEX is reporting two separate profiles regarding D and that
this is having an effect on Ds credit file.
A copy of an email chain between the credit reference agency and D has been
provided to AMEX, outlining the issue and providing AMEX with a clear point of
contact at the credit reference agency if they have any questions or queries with
regard what corrective action is needed here. But AMEX dont appear to have
contacted the credit reference agency, but instead report to this service that they are
unable to proceed with this complaint because they dont understand what needs to
be done.
Im not sympathetic to AMEXs position here, and Im satisfied that all the information
necessary for them to proceed has been provided to them. I also feel that the lack of
proactivity and AMEXs continuing failure to correct the information that they are
reporting to the credit reference agency constitutes an ongoing detriment to D which I
consider AMEX to be accountable for. And this is especially the case considering that
AMEX themselves have checked its reporting records and appear to have located
the very record that the credit reference agency is advising them to correct.
Its also disappointing to note that AMEX didnt record a formal complaint when D first
brought one to them during a telephone conversation, and then didnt respond in a
timely manner to the complaint letters that D sent to them. Its equally disappointing
to note that AMEX have misplaced documents sent to them by D in Ds attempts to
resolve this matter.
As such, having reviewed all the information available to me, its very difficult not to
conclude that AMEX havent provided a fair and reasonable standard of service to D,
and that if AMEX had made an effort to understand Ds complaint in the first instance
that a great deal of what has transpired since that time, ultimately leading to this
decision, could have been avoided.It follows from this that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Ds favour. Ive
decided to issue a provisional decision in this instance because I dont feel that the
£300 payment of compensation payable to D as recommended by our investigator is
sufficient, given the ongoing and unnecessary delays in resolving this issue which, as
described earlier, I consider AMEX accountable for.
Because of this, my provisional instructions to AMEX are as follows:
AMEX must contact the credit reference agency within the next 21 days and ask
whatever questions it deems necessary to gain an accurate understanding of what
needs to be amended to effectively correct Ds credit reporting. AMEX must then
undertake the required amendments as a matter of urgency. AMEX should liaise with
D during this process if required.
AMEX must make a payment of £450 to D to compensate it for the poor standard of
service it has received.
D confirmed that it was happy to accept my provisional decision. However, AMEX asked for
clarification as to exactly what was required of it. This led to a long period of discussion
between this service, AMEX, and the credit reference agency in question as to how the
matter at hand could be reasonably resolved.
Eventually, after all other potential avenues of resolution had been exhausted, including that
the credit reference agency confirmed that they were unwilling to merge the two reporting
records, AMEX proposed to delete all credit reporting for D.
While this is not an ideal solution, given that it means the total deletion of Ds credit reporting
with AMEX, it appears to be the only viable way of ensuring that D doesnt incur adverse
credit reporting in this instance.
I therefore issued a second provisional decision on 4 May 2022, provisionally instructing 
AMEX to delete all credit file reporting for D as well as make a payment of £450 to D to 
compensate it for the trouble and inconvenience this matter has caused.
D confirmed it was happy to accept my second provisional decision, whereas AMEX didnt 
respond. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in 
Ds favour on the basis outlined above, and I confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
accordingly.
Putting things right
AMEX must arrange for the deletion of all credit file reporting for D.
AMEX must also make a payment of £450 to D as compensation for the inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman