DRN-3936000
The complaint
The estate of Mr P (the estate) is unhappy that Standard Life Assurance Limited declined a 
retrospective terminal illness claim made on Mr Ps level protection plan (the plan). 
What happened
Mr P had the benefit of the plan which could pay out a sum of money if he died before the 
expiry date, which was in February 2021. It also provided terminal illness benefit which 
would be payable if Mr P suffered a terminal illness before the end of June 2018. Ill refer to 
the latter date as the relevant date. 
Mr P had been diagnosed with several illnesses before the relevant date and a claim for 
terminal illness was made on the plan. However, Standard Life declined that claim on the 
basis that Mr P hadnt been diagnosed with a terminal illness as defined by the terms of the 
plan.
Very sadly, shortly before the claim was declined, but after the expiry of the policy, Mr P died 
in September 2021. Unhappy with Standard Lifes decision, the estate of Mr P raised a 
complaint. And after Standard Life maintained its decision to decline the claim, the estate 
raised a complaint with our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt uphold the estates complaint 
because he didnt think the claim was unfairly declined. The estate disagreed and raised a 
number of points in reply. These didnt change our investigators opinion and the estate 
requested an Ombudsmans decision. So, I have to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, that includes the further comments the estate has provided 
since our investigator issued his view on this complaint  including but not limited to the 
estates email dated 30 May 2023.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
estate has, and in my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point made. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal dispute 
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it. 
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach 
an outcome in line with my statutory remit.
I also acknowledge that in response to our investigators view, the estate has raised other 
concerns against Standard Life including that Mr P was advised to pursue a retrospective 
terminal illness claim in June 2018 rather than being offered an extension to the plan or told 
that the terminal illness benefit expired on the relevant date. However, these complaints 
were investigated by Standard Life, and it responded to them in its final response letter 
dated July 2021. I understand that neither the estate nor Mr P referred that complaint to our 
service within 6 months from the date of this final response letter. But to be clear, I havent 
considered whether our service has jurisdiction to determine such concerns or considered 
the merits of those complaints.  
Ive only considered the complaint made by the estate as set out in the complaint form 
submitted to our service in August 2022; namely whether Standard Life has acted fairly by 
declining the retrospective terminal illness claim made under the plan. That was the 
complaint point addressed by Standard Life in its final response letter dated March 2022, 
and in its subsequent correspondence dated June 2022. Our investigator summarised the 
complaint when emailing the estate in October 2022 and the estate didnt say there were 
other concerns, they wanted investigated.
And although the estate has recently provided further medical letters dated May 2023 in 
support of the claim, Ive focussed on the information available to Standard Life as at the 
date of its final response letter dated March 2022 and its follow up letter dated June 2022. 
The estate is free to provide the further medical evidence to Standard Life in the first 
instance to consider whether it changes its claims decision. 
Did Standard Life unfairly decline the terminal illness claim?
Standard Life has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
When making a claim, its for the policyholder (or in this case, the estate) to establish that 
theres a valid claim under the plan and that the definition of terminal illness has been met. 
Its not for an insurer (in this case, Standard Life), to show that this definition hasnt been 
met.
The terms of the plan say that if the plan is still in force and terminal illness benefit still 
applies (as shown in the policy schedule), a claim for terminal illness will be accepted if 
Standard Life has received satisfactory proof that the life assured has a terminal illness
Standard Life agreed to consider a retrospective terminal illness claim if Mr P established 
that he had a terminal illness  as defined by the plan - before the relevant date. And given 
the circumstances of this case, I think thats fair and reasonable and in line with what I would 
reasonably expect it to have done. 
Under the terms of the plan, terminal illness means: advanced or rapidly progressing illness 
where, in the opinion of an attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life 
expectancy is no greater than 12 months. 
Im satisfied that Standard Life has fairly and reasonably concluded that Mr P (or the estate) 
hadnt established that Mr P had a terminal illness before the relevant date. Ill explain why.
Standard Lifes Chief Medical Officer considered the medical evidence and there was 
no evidence, in their opinion, to establish or suggest that a life expectancy of less 
than 12 months to support a retrospective claim. Ive read the medical evidence 
Standard Life requested (and considered) for the period before the relevant date  
including hospital letters. Im satisfied it fairly concluded that there was nothing before 
the relevant date to show that a consultant (or indeed other medical professional) 
advised that Mr Ps life expectancy was no greater than 12 months. 
The estate has explained why it feels the term terminal illness is commonly misunderstood and has put forward references stating that Mr Ps illnesses were 
incurable. But this term is specifically defined by the policy terms and I dont think its 
unreasonable for Standard Life to rely on that specific definition when concluding that 
Mr P hadnt been diagnosed with a terminal illness as defined by the policy.
The estate has also said that the medical evidence might not have been accurate or 
as comprehensive as it couldve been, that it was clear that Mr P was dying, and due 
to the complexity and number of medical issues, it was difficult to get a medical 
professional to give an opinion on Mr Ps life expectancy. However, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Standard Life to rely on the medical evidence obtained when 
assessing the claim. And theres nothing to support that he was told that his life 
expectancy was no greater than 12 months before the relevant date in line with the 
policy terms.
In response to our investigators view, the estate has said that Mr P and his wife did 
raise the life expectancy question with a couple of consultants. They were told by one 
that no-one had a crystal ball to predict the future or anyones life expectancy and 
to live the best possible life within the short time he had left. The estate says 
another consultant said: a diagnosis was very difficult to determine given there are 
so many things going on. But this doesnt support that Mr P was advised prior to the 
relevant date that his life expectancy was no greater than 12 months.
I agree with the estate to the extent that the medical evidence supports Mr Ps 
medical needs werent straightforward.  He had a number of medical issues  and 
was clearly unwell - before the relevant date. These medical issues are mentioned on 
the death certificate. However, I dont think that means Standard Life has unfairly 
concluded that before the relevant date Mr Ps life expectancy was no greater than 
12 months. As Ive found above, thats not supported by a consultant or Standard 
Lifes Chief Medical Officer as required by the terms of the policy.
Ive considered a medical report prepared for the court by a consultant physician 
dated April 2021. Although the report does go into Mr Ps medical history in detail 
and does give an opinion on life expectancy if he were to develop one of the 
malignant conditions and why his average life expectancy might be reduced, this 
report is dated almost three years after the relevant date and the opinion given is 
from that date forwards. So, Ive placed less weight on its content when determining 
whether Standard Life has fairly declined Mr Ps retrospective claim for terminal 
illness.
I dont agree with the estate that Standard Life ought to have approached each of Mr 
Ps physicians and each of his regular GPs to disprove that he was dying  or that 
Standard Life should instruct a medical expert at its own cost to determine whether 
the policy definitions are met.  I dont think it reasonably shouldve done so in this 
case. As Ive said above, its for Mr P (or, in this case, the estate) to establish a valid 
claim made under the plan and that Mr P had a terminal illness, as defined by the 
terms of the plan, before the relevant date. For the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied Standard Life has reasonably concluded that this hasnt been established.
I know the estate will be very disappointed by my decision. And I can see this has been a 
very difficult time for Mr Ps family. I hope that it helps them to know that this complaint has 
been carefully considered by someone independent of the parties. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman