DRN-2786815
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging 
him a fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr E said he asked FTR to look into whether he had any mis sold PPI 
claims. He said as he hadnt heard anything from FTR by June 2020 he thought he hadnt 
any successful claims. He said he used another free service to see if he had any claims he 
could make. And Mr E said he dealt directly with one of his lenders Ill call T and as a result 
of the work hed done hed a successful PPI claim with them. But shortly after being told his 
claim was successful, FTR asked him to pay their success fee. He complained to FTR.
FTR said Mr E agreed in August 2019 to use their services. And hed signed a letter of 
authority (LoA) authorising them to act on his behalf to pursue mis-sold PPI claims with 
lender T, among other lenders. FTR said theyd updated Mr E in February 2020 and had 
asked him to complete a PPI questionnaire (PPIQ). Mr E had completed the PPIQ and this 
had been submitted to his lender. As Mr E hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, and 
his claim was successful FTR said their fee was justified.
Mr E wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complaint to us.
 
Our investigator said Mr E had authorised FTR to pursue his mis-sold PPI claim. And she 
said FTR had acted fairly and in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr E didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I consider most likely happened. 
I can understand Mr Es frustration as he says the success of his PPI claim is because of the 
work he did and not FTR. Its not in dispute that Mr E instructed FTR to act on his behalf in 
August 2019 to see whether hed any mis-sold PPI claims. In making my decision I need to 
determine whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr E.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for lender T in 
August 2019. Ive looked at the web journey process for this application. FTR  has shown the 
screens Mr E would have gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens ask for information from Mr E about his personal details and his lenders. 
They include date of birth, current address, previous address and previous known names. 
Some of the details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr E has given to 
us. And as these are specific to Mr E, its unlikely FTR would have known this information. 
So, Im satisfied he would have completed this stage of the journey. On completing the 
application, FTR has said a LoA would have been generated, populated with this 
information. And FTR has said this could only be submitted with a signature. 
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Mr E had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
And go on to say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I can see from FTRs records that in February 2020 T advised them that PPI had been 
found. This doesnt automatically mean that a PPI claim will be successful, as the claim 
needs to show the PPI policy was mis-sold. This is why FTR asked Mr E to complete the 
PPIQ, as this could provide information to strengthen his claim. The message FTR sends 
says,  Great News You HAVE Paid PPI. And provides a link for a PPIQ to be completed.  
Mr E has confirmed he was sent a message and a link to the PPIQ. And I can see from 
FTRs records that the completed PPIQ was sent to T in April 2020.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies 
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. 
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. 
FTR has said that their fee is justified because T had auto converted Mr Es claim. This 
means that T investigated Mr Es claim based solely on the details that Mr E provided in 
FTRs  LoA. And Mr E doesnt dispute he completed and signed the LoA.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr E cancelled his agreement with FTR. And despite 
opportunities for Mr E to speak to or get in touch with FTR, it wasnt until after his claim was 
successful that he questioned their involvement. 
In July 2020, T told Mr E that his claim was successful. I can see the notification they sent 
to him clearly shows a reference to FTR. The same notification was received by FTR in August 2020. I havent seen any evidence that Mr E pursued his complaint directly with 
lender T. I think this shows T accepted FTR had authority to represent Mr E in making his 
PPI claim, and they werent solely dealing with Mr E. So, Im satisfied the success of Mr Es 
claim was based on the LoA sent by FTR.
The agreement Mr E had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did.
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And as outlined above the 
fee FTR charged was made clear on the on-line screen information.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with my decision. But I think hed authorised FTR to act on 
his behalf and he hadnt cancelled that agreement before his claim was successful. So,  
think FTRs fees are justified.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman