DRN-3822171
The complaint
Miss O complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave her a line of credit she 
couldnt afford to repay. She also says Drafty increased her credit limit without checking her 
financial circumstances at the time. 
What happened
Miss O approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 19 July 2017. Miss O was given a 
facility with a £300 credit limit. The limit was incrementally increased on three occasions until 
Miss Os limit reached £1,800 in November 2018. Drafty has confirmed the facility still had 
an outstanding balance by November 2022. 
Miss O was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also 
able to borrow further up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be 
clear, Miss O was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys final response letter it explained why it wasnt going to uphold Miss Os complaint 
because it had carried out proportionate checks. But it did offer to arrange a repayment plan 
for Miss O  if she needed one. Unhappy with this outcome, Miss O referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Os complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate. The checks showed Drafty Miss O was 
likely to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment 
schedule in Miss Os credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £300 being drawn 
down at the outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong 
to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Miss O with a credit 
facility, it also had an obligation to monitor Miss Os ongoing use of the facility. She thought 
by 16 October 2018 when Miss Os credit limit was increased to £1,650 Drafty ought to have 
carried out further checks to ensure that the limit and the facility remained affordable for 
Miss O. This was because Miss Os limit was now five times that Miss O initially started with. 
The adjudicator had a copy of Miss Os credit file which contained details of outstanding 
credit at the time the limit increased occurred. And had Drafty considered this it ought to 
have concluded that Miss O was having financial difficulties. This was because at the time 
Miss O had recently borrowed around £7,000 from other lenders in a short period of time 
and had at least five outstanding short-term loans which needed to be repaid. 
Overall, given the usage and what extra checks wouldve likely shown, Drafty ought to have 
realised that the facility had become unsustainable for her. Knowing this, in the adjudicators 
view Drafty shouldve stepped in and Drafty shouldve frozen the interest on the facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Miss O from 16 October 2018 should be refunded, along with additional simple interest of 
8%. She also said any adverse information recorded on Miss Os credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from her credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time (16 October 2018) but it agreed to only refund the interest fees 
and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was made, 
Drafty explained this would lead to a refund (with tax taken off) of £2,821.17  it also agreed 
to remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 16 
October 2018. It said this was because: 
 your decision implies that any draws granted after 16th October 2018 were 
inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, it also 
implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to grant.
Draftys offer was put to Miss O and she accepted it, and the adjudicator closed the 
complaint.  However, after a week after the complaint closed, Drafty contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to explain why the offer it made in response to the 
adjudicators assessment was incomplete. Drafty explained:
 we would like to confirm that we agree to refund the interest and charges paid 
towards all the drawdowns on the account [number removed] from October 16, 2018, 
amounting to 2821.17 GBP [2452.94 GBP for Interest she paid and 460.21 GBP for 
8% annual interest on the interest paid net of 20% mandatory tax withholding 
(amounts to 91.98 GBP) per HMRC regulation]. 
Furthermore, we will remove any adverse information in reference to the above-
mentioned account from October 16, 2018 from Miss O [full name removed] credit 
file.
We can see that there is an outstanding balance of £1036.48 with us. When we 
subtract this from the amount we're offering to pay, this results in a final refund of 
£1784.69.
Drafty asked the Financial Ombudsman to put this new offer to Miss O. The adjudicator 
explained to Miss O why Drafty had made a new offer and why she thought it was fair and 
reasonable for it to use the refund to offset against the outstanding balance that was owed. 
Miss O didnt accept the offer because she didnt think the figures provided by Drafty 
matched her own calculations. Miss O provided further details of her own calculations.
Following further enquires with Drafty, it provided a breakdown of its refund offer and it also 
explained that in November 2022 it had passed Miss Os debt to a third-party collection 
agency. 
The adjudicator then contacted Miss O with details of her complaint, the offer that Drafty was 
making and why in her view, the amount Drafty wanted to use to offset the outstanding 
balance was correct. Taking Draftys offer, 8% simple interest, then making deductions for 
tax and the outstanding balance it was due to pay Miss O £1,784.69. But the adjudicator 
made it clear that this offer wasnt in line with what she had recommended in her original 
assessment. Miss O didnt accept the offer and instead asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. Therefore, as no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Miss O was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Miss O would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Miss Os repayment record for any sign that 
she may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it 
offered some redress from this time  16 October 2018. And while, Miss O rejected the 
second, settlement offer by Drafty (to include using the refund to pay the outstanding 
balance), she didnt and hasnt appeared to disagree that this is the point where the 
complaint ought to be upheld. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from 
16 October 2018. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused 
on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint including whether it ought to offset the outstanding 
balance.  
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Miss O while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 16 October 2018 needs to be refunded. 
Drafty has accepted, that the facility had become unsustainable for Miss O by October 2018. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken had it stepped in at this time to provide assistance to Miss O. There were a number of 
options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as none of these were taken and Im 
satisfied that action ought to have been taken  as it agrees. Ive considered what Drafty 
ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after the event. And the 
proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this sometime after the event.In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.
I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Miss Os outstanding 
balance, in circumstances where this increased the chances of her being unable to repay is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately lent and 
appeared affordable for Miss O at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty ought to have carried out further checks before increasing Miss Os credit limit. 
These further checks wouldve shown it that Miss O was already overextended through at 
least 5 payday loans and 2 high cost credit loans and had in the months leading up to the 
credit limit increase in October 2018 already borrowed a significant sum of money. This is 
information Drafty wouldve had to hand had it carried out what I consider to be a 
proportionate check. 
In my view, these checks wouldve shown it that not only was the new proposed new credit 
was unaffordable but actually the whole facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised 
forbearance to allow Miss O to repay what she owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my 
view, fair and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
16 October 2018 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that the 
facility was unsustainable by 16 October 2018 as well as thinking about what Ive seen in 
Miss Os credit file had further checks been carried out.  It therefore follows that it isnt just 
the new credit limit or the new drawdowns that Miss O couldnt afford. She also couldnt 
afford to repay what she already owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as 
well as offering further drawdowns needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right 
going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Miss O. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the calculations provided by Miss O and Drafty. But Im persuaded, the 
spreadsheet provided by Drafty is an accurate reflection of the total amount Miss O has 
borrowed, the total amount of interest charged and the total  to date of Miss Os 
repayments. 
Therefore, as things stand now, and before any redress is taken into account, Im satisfied 
that there is an outstanding balance that needs to be repaid. 
I also dont think, given that Drafty will need to pay compensation to Miss O that it uses what 
it needs from any refund to offset any principal balance that is outstanding. This is a well-
established approach the Financial Ombudsman follows and so I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Drafty to recover the outstanding balance. 
If Drafty has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if Drafty is able to and then take 
the following steps. If Drafty is unable to buy the debt back it should liaise wit the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below. Remove all unpaid, interest fees and charges levied on the credit facility from 
18 October 2018.
Treat any repayments Miss O has made on the facility since 18 October 2018 as 
though they were payments towards the outstanding balance. 
If at any point Miss O wouldve been in credit on the facility, considering the above, 
then Drafty should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated 
from the day the overpayment became due to the date of settlement.  
If there is still an outstanding principal balance due, then Drafty can use any refund 
calculated above to repay this. If after doing this a balance remains due than Drafty 
ought to try and agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss O.
remove any negative information about the facility from Miss Os credit file from 
16 October 2018  as Drafty has already agreed to do. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Miss Os complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Miss O as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman