DRN-3267721
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with how long Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, took to 
consider and agree their request to extend their mortgage term and take a new fixed interest 
rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have an interest only mortgage with Halifax that was originally taken in 2012. 
The fixed interest rate on their mortgage was expiring in July 2019  with the mortgage term 
due to expire in July 2020.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Halifax in July 2019. They said they were interested in extending 
the term of their mortgage and taking a new fixed interest rate. The mortgage balance was 
approximately £151,000.
Halifax says it explained what information it would need to see to consider the application. 
And it was waiting for Mr and Mrs C, or their independent financial adviser, to get in touch to 
provide this. Mr and Mrs C have said that Halifax told them it couldnt consider a term 
extension until there was less than six months remaining on the mortgage term, so they 
didnt proceed at that stage.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs C contacted Halifax to again discuss extending their mortgage 
term and taking a new fixed interest rate. By this time their existing fixed interest rate deal 
had expired, and they were paying a variable interest rate of 4.24%.
Mr and Mrs C were looking to extend the mortgage term by five years. And Ive seen a 
mortgage illustration indicating they were looking at taking a three-year fixed interest rate of 
2.84%.
The application took several months to be assessed. It appears that Halifax needed 
additional information on several occasions about Mr and Mrs Cs income, in order to assess 
affordability, and their repayment vehicle for paying the capital balance.
After looking at the plan for repaying the capital, Halifax said that it felt this would only cover 
approximately 80% of what was due. So, in order to agree to the application, it required 
Mr and Mrs C to reduce the mortgage balance to around £124,800. Mr and Mrs C agreed 
and have provided evidence to show they withdrew approximately £26,000 from an 
investment ISA they held to do this.
A term extension and new interest rate were finally agreed in September 2020 on the 
revised mortgage balance of roughly £124,800  with the new rate effective from October 
2020. The mortgage term was extended until October 2025. Mr and Mrs C also took a new 
fixed rate for three years. But while the application had been ongoing, the rates that Halifax 
was able to provide had changed, so their new rate was 1.49% - an improvement on what 
they had initially asked for.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the service provided by Halifax during the application. 
They said theyd had to spend a significant amount of time chasing Halifax which they felt 
they should be compensated for. And they were also unhappy theyd continued to pay 
interest at a higher rate, while the application was ongoing.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. So, Mr and Mrs C asked our service to 
consider their complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He noted that while the application had 
taken a number of months, Mr and Mrs C had benefitted from the interest rate available to 
them improving. He did though think some of the delay, approximately one month, was due 
to Halifaxs handling of the matter. He felt this had caused unnecessary distress and Mr and 
Mrs C to have to pay interest at a higher rate for one month longer than they shouldve. So, 
he recommended Halifax refund them the difference in interest theyd paid for one month 
and pay them £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Halifax agreed with our Investigators opinion. But Mr and Mrs C did not. They felt the 
suggested payment for trouble and upset did not fairly reflect the amount of time theyd 
spent chasing the matter. They also said the improved interest rate available to them was 
due to changes in the market not Halifaxs actions and didnt think this was relevant to the 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I intended to recommend a 
slightly different resolution to that of our Investigator. Below are extracts from my provisional 
findings, explaining why.
The application not progressing in July 2019
As I mentioned, Mr and Mrs C first contacted Halifax to discuss a term extension in July 
2019  when their fixed interest rate was ending. Halifax has provided contact notes showing 
three calls were made to it by Mr and Mrs C around that time to discuss this. It has also 
provided call recordings.
Ive listened to these recordings. In the first, Mr C explained that he was interested in 
extending the mortgage term with the mortgage remaining on an interest only basis. The 
member of staff he spoke to initially said they werent sure this was something Halifax would 
offer, as it would normally require the mortgage to move onto a capital and interest 
repayment basis. But after checking again they confirmed an interest only extension was 
something that could be discussed. During the call they also suggested that this would 
normally be considered closer to the end of the existing mortgage term. But they quickly 
corrected themselves and said there was no reason that the extension couldnt be 
considered at the time. They then went into what information would be needed and what 
evidence would have to subsequently be provided. Mr C indicated it would be his financial 
adviser that dealt with this. Halifax noted though that Mr and Mrs C would need to be present 
during any call with the adviser, to give authority and so Halifax could read them certain 
declarations. This call ended on the understanding Mr and Mrs C and their adviser would be 
back in touch in the near future.
In the second call, Mr C said to Halifax his adviser had tried to process a term extension 
application but had been told Mr C needed to agree details with Halifax first. Halifax said this 
wasnt the case and that Mr C could either speak to one of its advisers and apply directly or 
his adviser could apply on his behalf. This call ended on the understanding Mr and Mrs Cs 
financial adviser would be taking the application forward.
In the last call Ive been provided a recording of, it was indicated that Mr and Mrs C would be 
applying directly, as their adviser was unable to do so. Halifax explained the documentation that would eventually need to be supplied and gave the details of where this would need to 
be sent. But it explained Mr and Mrs C should have this to hand when discussing the 
application with one of its mortgage advisers and only send it to Halifax once this 
conversation had taken place. This call ended on the understanding that Mr and Mrs C 
would be getting back in touch with Halifax at the end of July 2019, to have a conversation 
with one of its mortgage advisers.
Halifax has no record of Mr and Mrs C having contacted it again until February 2020.
Halifax appears to have been clear in the calls that it could consider an application for a term 
extension at that time and set out the information that would be needed. There is no 
indication that it was going to take the next action. And it seems clear from each of the calls 
that the parties agreed on each occasion that it would be Mr and Mrs C, or their 
representative, that would be initiating the next contact.
So, based on the information that Ive been provided, I dont think Halifax has done anything 
wrong that explains why the enquiry did not progress between July 2019 and February 2020. 
And I cant reasonably say it is responsible for that delay.
Was Mr and Mrs Cs application considered correctly in 2020
Before agreeing to extend the term and agree a new interest rate deal, Halifax carried out 
assessments in relation to whether it deemed the mortgage affordable or the repayment 
vehicle suitable.
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 
2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about 
requirements for stricter lending assessments, particularly around affordability and 
repayment strategies for interest only mortgages, aimed to protect consumers and 
encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly.
The FCA recognised though that this could impact existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. These rules are 
set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB). 
These rules allow lenders to set aside some of the new tests, particularly around affordability 
assessments and repayment strategies for interest only mortgages, in certain circumstances 
if the change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best interests.
Importantly though, they dont say that a lender should not carry out the relevant 
assessments. It can just potentially set these aside, after they have been carried out, if it 
deems it appropriate to do so. So, I dont think Halifax was wrong to look at the affordability 
of the agreement or how the mortgage would be repaid at the end of the term. And so, I 
dont think it was wrong to request relevant information and evidence to allow it to do this  
which meant the application would take some time. Ill look later at whether this assessment 
was done as efficiently as it shouldve been.
Going back to the rules Ive mentioned its important to note that these rules also dont oblige 
lenders to make changes to mortgages or agree to lend. They merely say that changes dont 
have to be refused  if the criteria for setting aside the more stringent tests are met.
Mr and Mrs Cs request to extend the term of their mortgage was ultimately agreed. But only 
after the mortgage balance was reduced  because Halifax felt the repayment vehicle for the 
mortgage was not sufficient to cover the whole balance. And this led to Mr and Mrs C having 
to withdraw money from an investment to reduce the balance.Mr and Mrs Cs application would appear to fall into the category where Halifax could opt to 
set aside the more stringent tests around interest only repayment strategy. That is because 
the original mortgage was taken out prior to 26 April 2014, there doesnt appear to have 
been further borrowing since that date and Mr and Mrs C were not looking to take additional 
borrowing as part of their application. So, if the transaction, the term extension, was in their 
best interests, I think Halifax couldve set aside this assessment. And as it is the assessment 
of the repayment vehicle that has led to Halifax requiring the reduction in the mortgage 
balance  if this had been set aside, they might not have been required to make a 
withdrawal from their investments.
So, Ive thought about whether Halifax shouldve set aside this assessment.
In the calls Ive listened to from July 2019, Mr and Mrs C explained that they wanted to 
extend the term and keep the interest only mortgage because the returns they were 
receiving on their investments (which were intended to repay the mortgage) exceeded what 
the mortgage was costing. And so, they wanted to leave those investments in place. And 
when the application was continued in February 2020, they explained they were also keen to 
avoid penalties for withdrawing the investments  which they indicated wouldve been 
lessened at the end of the extended term. So, there was a potential benefit to the extension 
for them. But just because this course of action was what they wanted  it doesnt mean it 
was in their best interests.
Extending the mortgage term would though mean having to pay interest on the entire 
mortgage balance for a further five years  so brought with it a significant additional cost. 
There was also the risk that Mr and Mrs Cs investments couldve decreased in value. So, at 
the end of the extended term they couldve been left in a worse position, and even not have 
a way to repay the balance.
Given the additional cost and risk involved, I think it was fair of Halifax to conclude that the 
transaction initially requested might not have been in Mr and Mrs Cs best interests. So, I 
dont think Halifax has acted incorrectly by continuing to apply its standard assessment 
criteria to the repayment strategy, rather than setting this aside.
And based on what Ive seen I think Halifax has applied its lending criteria, in relation to 
investments and the potential for their value to change, fairly to the repayment strategy that 
was explained to it. Which means I dont think Halifax did anything wrong by requiring the 
mortgage balance to be reduced. And overall, I think the application was considered fairly 
and correctly.
Did Halifax cause delays after February 2020
As Ive noted Mr and Mrs Cs application took several months to be considered fully. Ive 
seen evidence that there were several phone calls between Mr and Mrs C and Halifax in 
February 2020. In those calls, information was provided about income and expenditure, as 
well as details of Mr and Mrs Cs investments being outlined. Following a call on 25 February 
2020 I can see that a mortgage illustration was produced setting out the proposed changes 
to the mortgage that had been talked about.
Halifaxs records show it then received a signed application declaration in early March 2020. 
But no other documents  to evidence the figures that had been discussed over the phone - 
are recorded as having been received at that point.
The next contact between Mr and Mrs C and Halifax was in early June 2020, when Mr and 
Mrs C asked how the application was progressing. And it was shortly following this call that 
further evidence was sent to Halifax.It isnt entirely clear what happened when the declaration was provided in early March 2020. 
Mr and Mrs C have indicated that they believe they supplied evidence of income and 
expenditure at that time as well. But Halifax only has record of receiving a declaration.
I cant see that after receiving the declaration that Halifax chased Mr and Mrs C for the 
remaining outstanding information. If it hadnt received anything after the conversation on 25 
February 2020, then I could understand this  as it wouldve been reasonable to assume
Mr and Mrs C had decided to make alternative arrangements. But given the application 
declaration was received, I think this ought to have indicated they were intending to proceed. 
And I think itd have been reasonable for Halifax to remind them, certainly within a month of 
the declaration having been received, that additional evidence was needed. So, I think 
Halifax could arguably have done more at that stage.
I am conscious though that these events coincided with the onset of the pandemic. So, came 
at a time when businesses, including Halifax, were adapting to great uncertainty and 
regularly changing guidance. And I do think this goes some way to explaining why it may not 
have chased Mr and Mrs C.
Ive also taken into account that Mr and Mrs C didnt contact Halifax again until June 2020. 
And they could arguably have checked in with it sooner, to see if they needed to send any 
further information  particularly with their existing mortgage term due to expire in July 2020. 
But they too, like all of us, wouldve been dealing with the uncertainty the pandemic had 
brought about. So, I can also understand why they may have not thought to do so sooner.
In summary, I dont think either party is wholly at fault for the application not progressing 
between the end of February 2020 and the start of June 2020. But I am satisfied that Halifax 
didnt have the evidence it needed to carry out an assessment of the application during that 
time.
The required evidence was eventually received in early June 2020. Call notes provided by 
Halifax indicate documents were available on 9 June 2020. But it doesnt appear that these 
were reviewed until July 2020, or that Mr and Mrs C were updated until 8 July 2020  when 
more information was requested.
I can see Mr and Mrs C made several phone calls to Halifax in the interim asking for an 
update. While I appreciate that Halifax was still dealing with the changing circumstances 
around the pandemic, I think this delay of approximately one month was unreasonable and 
avoidable. Particularly bearing in mind by that time Halifax was aware that the application 
had been ongoing since February 2020, the initial mortgage term was due to expire in July 
2020 and that Mr and Mrs C were anxious for this to be resolved.
Once this information was assessed in July 2020, more evidence was required  which I 
dont think is unreasonable. This seems to have been provided promptly around 13 July 
2020, based on when Halifaxs notes indicate it was received. But there appear to have been 
further delays in this being reviewed by Halifax, with this not happening until early August 
2020, and an update not having been provided to Mr and Mrs C until 3 August 2020  a 
delay of another three weeks. And again, I think this was an unnecessary delay.
Correspondence continued between the parties throughout August 2020, with more 
evidence exchanged, particularly relating to the repayment vehicle, which led to the 
mortgage amount, Halifax was willing to agree to extend the term for, reducing. That 
communication seems to have been dealt with more effectively though and I dont think 
Halifax caused further delays before the mortgage was agreed.In summary then, while I think it was reasonable for Halifax to require evidence to be 
provided for it to consider the application, I dont think this evidence was always dealt with or 
reviewed promptly. And I think this has caused delays to the application  totalling 
approximately seven weeks.
With that in mind, Ive thought about what a fair way to put this right would be.
The application not concluding until September 2020 did benefit Mr and Mrs C in a way. The 
interest rate they obtained on their mortgage  a fixed rate of 1.49% for three years  was 
less than what they originally applied for  a three-year fixed rate of 2.84%. And so, over the 
period of the fixed interest rate, they will pay significantly less in interest  several thousand 
pounds in fact.
Mr and Mrs C have said that this was not due to Halifax doing anything to help them but 
because of market conditions. And I agree the change was because of changes to market 
conditions. But as they have benefitted from this, quite significantly, I do think it is correct to 
take this into account when considering what is fair.
Had those delays not happened, the changes to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage wouldve 
happened sooner than they did. So, the new interest rate deal wouldve been in place 
sooner and theyd have paid less interest. Our investigator recommended that Halifax refund 
the difference in interest Mr and Mrs C paid for one month. But as I think the delays caused 
by Halifax were actually longer than this  approximately seven weeks  I think itd be 
appropriate for it to refund the difference in interest between the standard variable rate and 
the new fixed rate on the mortgage for the full duration of the delay it caused (seven weeks).
Mr and Mrs C have said that the way the application was handled was upsetting and 
resulted in them having to make a large number of phone calls to chase things with Halifax, 
which was very inconvenient for them. Having reviewed the contact notes I can see that 
Mr and Mrs C made did make regular calls to Halifax looking for an update. A lot of which, I 
think, wouldve been avoided if the delays had not happened.
Mortgage applications will often require a fair amount of administration on the part of the 
applicants. And they can take a significant amount of time and, even at the best of times, be 
stressful. But I do think Halifax has caused Mr and Mrs C to expend more time than 
necessary on this application.
Mr C has mentioned the number of hours he spent on the phone to Halifax and the hourly 
rate he charges. But I dont think itd be reasonable to award redress based on his 
professional rate  not least as this was a personal matter. But I do accept that having to 
make this number of calls wouldve been inconvenient.
Taking everything into account, Im minded to say that Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs C 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience it caused here.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that, only finding out they needed to reduce the mortgage 
balance at quite a late stage, limited where they were able to release funds from. And that 
caused them to incur costs. But I dont think Halifax did anything wrong by requiring the 
mortgage balance to be reduced  as it seems to have acted in line with its lending criteria. 
And I also dont think it has delayed discussing this issue with Mr and Mrs C  as all of the 
information it based this decision on seems to have only been received in full, shortly before 
this was explained to them. So, given this, and that the saving on the interest rate Mr and 
Mrs C have ultimately benefitted from seems to exceed the costs theyve incurred, I dont 
think Halifax needs to do anything further to address this issue.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr and Mrs C did not provide any further comments for me to consider.
Halifax said it agreed with my provisional findings. But rather than calculate the difference in 
interest for seven weeks, it would round this amount up to two months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, as neither party have provided me with any additional 
information to take into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings that 
Halifax did cause some delays to this application and should do something to put that right.
Putting things right
Halifax has said it accepted my provisional findings and in fact proposes to do more than I 
suggested, by refunding Mr and Mrs C the difference in interest between what they did pay 
and what they would have paid on their new fixed rate for a period of two months, rather 
than seven weeks. Taking everything into account, and as my findings and reasons for them 
are unchanged from those in my provisional decision, I think this offer is fair.
So, to put things right, Halifax should;
Pay Mr and Mrs C £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by how it handled 
their application.
Refund Mr and Mrs C the difference in interest between what they did pay on their 
mortgage and what they wouldve paid on their new fixed rate, for a period of two 
months  as it has now agreed to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
To put things right I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to settle the complaint 
as directed in the Putting things right section of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman