DRN-2451000
The complaint
Following the dissolution of his civil partnership, Mr M is unhappy about Old Mutual Wealth 
Life & Pensions Limiteds (OMW) refusal to provide him with new bond(s), in line with a 
court order requiring him and his partner to divide their joint investments.  
Mr M says that this means his account doesnt reflect his investment and may cause tax 
issues when it comes to early encashment, disinvestment or upon maturity. 
What happened
Mr M, and his partner, held two Collective Investment Bonds (referred to as the bonds). The 
bonds were sold to them by their Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) in 2014.  
The first bond, ending in number 498, was valued at around £1million  two thirds of which 
were funded by Mr Ms partner. The second bond, ending in number 680, valued at 
£228,000 was funded equally by Mr M and his partner. 
Sadly, their civil partnership ended in April 2019, and pursuant to a court order the bonds 
needed to be separated. I understand that the bonds were assigned due to a request made 
by Mr Ms partner, and in due course the Deed of Assignment for the bonds were signed by 
the parties in June 2019 and forwarded to OMW via their IFA. Mr M says that they were 
informed by their IFA that OMW would carry out the instructions, which it began to do on 5 
July 2019.  
Despite what Mr M says now, and notwithstanding what his intentions might have been, it 
seems that a complaint was only made in relation to the bigger bond ending in 498 and 
thats what OMW went on to consider. 
In short, OMW didnt uphold the complaint but offered to pay Mr M £500 compensation  as 
a goodwill gesture  for the distress and inconvenience caused and offered to charge a 
lower platform fee. 
It said that the bond ending 498 was separated to allow the individual parts of the bond to be 
administered separately in pursuance with the court order. But in doing so, Mr M was left 
with the original bond number and transaction history. It said that its happy to provide a 
written explanation as to the background of Mr Ms bond for tax purposes.  
Mr M is unhappy that new bonds were opened for his former partner, yet the liabilities 
regarding the initial contribution amount and withdrawals data were still under the original 
account numbers that he was left with. Notwithstanding what the business says, Mr M 
remains concerned about incurring incorrect tax events and costs in the future as a result of 
surrendering early or even at maturity.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She only considered the complaint about the bond ending 498 because thats what 
Mr M complained about in writing and what OMW also only considered.  
The jointly held life policies within the bond ending 498 were individually assigned on 
29 June 2019, as per the Deed of Assignment that Mr M and his partner signed. 
The assignment was noted by OMW on 5 July 2019  at the earliest available 
opportunity after the receipt of the document. 
Mr M quoted the agreement as follows:
Agreements in relation to the Old Mutual Wealth Investments 28. The parties agree 
that by a date to be agreed between the parties and in any event within three months 
of the date of this order:
a. The Big Bond shall be divided as to 71.56% to the applicant and 28.44% to 
the respondent. To ensure that the balance and risk profile of the invested funds are 
not impacted, the applicant and respondent shall take their percentage across all 
funds in the bond, whichever mechanism is used, as recommended and agreed with 
their Financial Advisor, to divide the Big Bond
OMW were told to split and assign the bond, and thats what it has done, in line with 
the court order.  
But because the joint party wanted to continue to make regular withdrawals the bond 
needed to be separated so that the parts could be administered independently. The 
separation occurred on 2 August 2019. 
OMW were acting on the joint partys instructions and that of Mr Ms independent 
financial adviser (IFA). 
OMW explained that the bond operated the same as it did before the assignment, 
along with online access, so both assignees can administer their part of the bond 
independently of each other. So, Mr M can appoint his own adviser, use the online 
facilities and utilise the 5% tax-deferred withdrawal allowance for his part of the 
investment. 
OMW is unable to split out the contribution history from the valuation documents. 
However, it can provide a letter confirming the correct value to each client for their 
records. 
Despite Mr Ms concerns, OMW will provide bondholders with the necessary 
Chargeable Events Certificate (CEC) to enable them to declare any gains to HMRC 
as part of their tax return.
The Chargeable Event Gains (CEG) are calculated on a manual basis, so any future 
CEGs arising on Mr Ms bond will have the correct factors figured in, and as such 
there wont be any adverse effect on the future tax Mr M will have to pay because he 
kept the original bond. 
OMWs goodwill gesture to pay £500 compensation plus, reduced platform fees is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
She doesnt think OMW has done anything wrong, or acted outside of its terms and 
conditions, she cant recommend that it give Mr M anything more. 
How OMW separate accounts is a matter for them in the exercise of their reasonable 
commercial judgement. Despite Mr M wanting new account numbers its not 
something she can ask it to provide. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
OMW was responsible for assigning and separating the two jointly held bonds in line 
with the court order. 
He made clear  with OMW over several calls  that he was complaining about both 
bonds and not just the one ending in number 498.  
The same principles of complaint apply to both the bonds. OMW failed to do what it was supposed to do, leaving him behind with dirty bonds 
whilst Mr Ms former partner got two new ones. 
No one consulted him about what hed like to happen. Hes received no advice from 
OMW, not even from his IFA who was meant to be advising on these matters.
Hes now left with all the transaction history and the original investment and 
withdrawals. Hes now concerned that if he surrenders early or even upon maturity, 
hell be liable to pay higher taxes.  
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
She can only investigate the complaint addressed by OMW, and it hasnt addressed 
the complaint regarding the bond ending in number 680.
That notwithstanding, OMW said the bond ending in 680 wasnt subject to separation 
as the joint party disinvested 100% of his share which left Mr M as the sole bond 
holder. 
Despite what Mr M says shes not persuaded that OMW has done anything wrong.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has done anything wrong in relation to the bond ending 498. 
I appreciate what Mr M says about complaining about two bonds  including the one ending 
in number 680  but it seems he only complained to OMW about the bond ending in number 
498. 
Whilst I appreciate that the issues regarding assignment and separation might be the same 
and apply to both bonds, OMW  as a result of Mr Ms complaint  quite rightly only 
considered the bond ending in 498. Because OMW hasnt considered the complaint about 
the bond ending in 680 it wouldnt be fair of me to consider it now, without giving it an 
opportunity to consider the issues first.
That notwithstanding, I note OMW says that the bond ending in 680 wasnt subject to 
separation as the joint party disinvested 100% of his share which left Mr M as the sole bond 
holder. So, its likely that the issues surrounding what OMW did or didnt do regarding that 
bond is a little different. 
Before I explain why Im not upholding this complaint, I think its important for me to 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to 
support this complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and OMW, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that OMW has endeavoured to 
successfully comply with the court order, probably with some assistance from Mr M and his 
partners IFA. 
I think its important to understand that the original bond ending 498 (or at least portions of it) 
still exist, but under new ownership, broadly in line with the court order. The effect of which is 
that Mr Ms former partner will have his own separate investments, that he can administer 
independent of Mr M.  
In the circumstances Im not sure that its possible for OMW to assign, in effect, new bonds, 
when a portion of the original bond  ending in number 498, and now belonging to Mr M  
still exist. 
I dont think the business refusal or inability to assign new bonds to Mr M and his partner is 
unreasonable or contrary to the court order. On balance, I dont think this is what the court 
order was suggesting, however if thats what Mr M wanted, he ought to have raised the issue 
with his lawyers (and IFA) so that the court order perhaps couldve been drafted in exactly 
those terms, clearly setting out that two new sets of bonds were required by him and his 
partner  although the bonds probably would have had to be surrendered to achieve that, 
and Mr M and his partner would probably have ended up enduring a financial disadvantage 
and additional costs. 
In any case, I dont think its for me to legally determine whether OMW has fulfilled the 
requirements of the court order, I think thats a matter to be determined by the courts if 
necessary. So far as I can gather, it has complied with what it was required to do by splitting 
the bond ending 498, and theres nothing to suggest that Mr M ought to have been provided 
with two new bonds in the place of it. 
Im mindful that it was Mr Ms partner who first suggested that the bonds be separated. It 
doesnt seem unreasonable therefore that he be the one to get a new account number and 
not Mr M. I note OMW said that if Mr M was the one to ask for the separation, hed probably 
be the one to get the new number. 
I also note OMW says that Mr Ms partner wanted to continue making withdrawals but was 
prevented from doing so after the assignment of the bond, and this is why it allocated him a 
new bond number so he could continue making withdrawals which was beneficial to both 
him and Mr M in terms of moving forwards independently. I appreciate Mr M mightve wanted 
something similar, but I dont think he was the first to communicate this to OMW.  
Im aware that Mr M is unhappy that he wasnt made aware of all this happening until after, 
but in the circumstances, I dont think OMW was required to update/consult him and his 
partner, in terms of what it as doing. I appreciate what Mr M says about speaking to both him 
and his partner but Im not sure that wouldve been helpful given the dissolution of their civil 
partnership and the court order. 
Im mindful that Mr M and his partner had the same financial adviser who was also involved 
in the process. I note OMW says it wouldve been reasonable to expect him to update the parties but its not for me to comment upon this as Im only considering the actions of OMW 
and not the IFA. 
Mr M is also complaining about an issue  namely tax liability  that hasnt materialised, and 
may not materialise, in future. OMW has explained that it will provide the CEC  to enable 
Mr M to declare his tax  and the CEG  which are currently calculated manually  and that 
it will contain the correct figures, so that retaining the original bond and account number 
wont have an adverse effect on him.   
I note OMW has confirmed that its willing and able to provide information in writing to 
confirm the true status of the bonds notwithstanding the transaction and withdrawal history. 
So, if any difficulty should arise regarding tax issues with the HMRC  which is what Mr M is 
most concerned about  this will help to clarify the true position. That way Mr M will only pay 
the tax that hes personally due to pay.
I agree with the investigator that should any tax issues arise in the future, that cant be 
resolved by OMW, Mr M can still refer his complaint to our service and that will then be 
looked into in the usual way.  
 
Notwithstanding the above, OMWs offer to pay Mr M £500 compensation and a reduced 
platform charge is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied this adequately 
acknowledges the distress and inconvenience suffered by him for bonds showing the joint 
contribution value, as opposed to his individual contribution. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ms frustration, Im unable to ask OMW to do anything because I dont 
think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Old Mutual Wealth Life & Pensions Limiteds offer to pay Mr M £500 compensation and a 
reduced platform fee is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman