DRN-3258033
Complaint
Mr H says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly refused to extend an 
arrangement to repay his overdraft at £10 a month.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. He didnt think that Nationwide had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
I think it would help for me to start by explaining that the £10 a month payments Mr H made 
in the 24 months leading up to August 2020 were nowhere near enough to clear the amount 
Mr H owed within a reasonable period of time  reducing the debt by this amount a month 
would have seen it taking over 5 years to clear the balance. Furthermore, as Nationwide 
wasnt charging interest during this period, its clear that Mr H wasnt adhering to the terms of 
his overdraft and Nationwide was entitled to start thinking about defaulting the account. 
I do sympathise with what Mr H has told us. I fully appreciate why he was unhappy with the 
prospect of Nationwide recording a default on his credit file. But by August 2020, it was clear 
that not only was Mr H saying his situation hadnt improved but that it wouldnt do so for 
some time either. And I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for 
Nationwide to continue ignoring Mr Hs obvious and apparent inability to pay, or the fact that 
the overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, 
I would have expected Nationwide to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. So I dont think that it was unfair for Nationwide to refuse to 
automatically renew Mr Hs previous arrangement on the same terms.
That said, I do have some concerns at how Nationwide ended up at the £40 a month figure 
that it did. Ordinarily I would expect a lender to complete an income and expenditure 
assessment with Nationwide in order to work out how much they can pay towards a debt. 
But I cant see that one was completed before Mr Hs £40 arrangement was agreed  the 
calls from the time suggest Mr H said all he could pay was £10 a month. It appears £40 a 
month was chosen simply because Nationwide concluded this was what was needed to 
clear the balance within a reasonable period of time.
However, Im mindful that Mr H initially told our adjudicator that he managed to make the 
payments without too much difficulty. In any event, even if this isnt the case having looked 
through Mr Hs statements during the period of time concerned, Im satisfied that he did have 
sufficient funds to be able to make the payments. So while I do have concerns at how 
Nationwide arrived at the repayment amount it did, Im satisfied that Mr H didnt lose out 
because of it  especially as hes been able to clear his indebtedness without demonstrating 
any obvious financial difficulty. And hes done so without defaulting on the agreement.
Finally, I know that Mr H is unhappy with the length of time that it took for the overdraft limit 
reductions to be reflected in his online banking. But each limit decrease needed to be 
processed before it could be reflected. And while I realise that there was a delay before this 
happened each month, it appears as though Mr H did manage to take this into account and 
didnt breach his overdraft limit as a result of this. So I cant see that Mr H lost out by any 
delay in the overdraft limit reductions being reflected on his account.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman