DRN-1820636
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals made from 
his account. 
What happened
Mr H says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £1,200 were made from his 
Barclays savings account between 17 and 20 August 2019. Mr H has also complained about 
fraudulent cash withdrawals totalling £2,700 made from the same Barclays account in 
September 2019 which Ill be addressing in a separate decision. 
Mr H says that the last time he used his debit card was on the 13 August 2019 for £50. He 
explained that he kept the card in his wallet which was with him at home or at work, where 
it was stored in a variety of places including his trousers or jacket pocket or his work locker. 
Mr H says he hasnt given his PIN to anyone, but he keeps it written down in the form of a 
telephone number in a diary stored at his home address. 
Mr H says he noticed the disputed transactions on the 30 August 2019 after checking his 
balance at his local branch at which point he reported them to the bank. He says he was 
advised by branch staff that his card must have been cloned and fraudsters have 
sophisticated software to obtain a customers PIN. 
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They said that 
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity and Mr H most likely authorised or carried out 
the transactions because:
Mr H explained that he hadn't told anyone his PIN or written it down
The last genuine chip and PIN transaction was four days before the fraudulent 
transactions, a fraudster wouldn't wait this long before taking his card
There were no attempts to use the card after it was cancelled
No balance checks were carried out meaning that whoever carried out the 
transactions knew the balance
 
As Mr H didnt agree hes asked us to investigate further. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. In summary he wasnt able to 
conclude that the withdrawals had been made fraudulently, and thought it more likely than 
not theyd been authorised or carried out by Mr H. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. So its come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why below. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr H liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied that the banks technical evidence shows that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN 
were used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
All the transactions were carried out via chip and PIN, but theres no plausible 
explanation for how a fraudster obtained both Mr Hs card and his PIN. Mr H has 
explained that his card was in his wallet when he carried out his last genuine 
transaction on the 13 August 2019 and on the 30 August 2019 when he identified the 
disputed withdrawals. This means that a fraudster needs to have removed and 
returned his card, without being noticed, on at least one occasion between these 
dates. I struggle to see why a fraudster would take the risk of returning Mr Hs card. 
Mr H has also explained the card was kept in his wallet at all times and this was 
either in his trousers next to his bed when he was at home, on his person or in his 
locker at work. This makes it difficult to understand how a fraudster could have 
obtained Mr Hs card and returned it to his wallet without him noticing. 
 
I've also thought about how a fraudster could have obtained Mr H's PIN. Mr H has 
explained hes not shared his PIN with anyone, but wrote it down as a telephone 
number in a diary left under his television. For a fraudster to obtain Mr Hs PIN they 
either needed to shoulder surf him during a chip and PIN transaction  this seems 
unlikely as the last genuine transaction was four days before the first disputed 
transaction  or identify hed written his PIN in his diary and work out where and how 
the PIN was recorded. Im satisfied this also seems unlikely.
The last disputed withdrawal was on the 20 August 2019 but Mr H didnt notify the 
bank of the disputed transactions until the 30 August 2019. I think its unusual that a 
fraudster didnt carry out any further transactions between these dates. 
No balance checks were carried out prior to the disputed withdrawals, indicating the 
fraudster knew the balance of Mr Hs account.  
 
I realise this will be very disappointing to Mr H but taking everything into account, I find, on 
balance, that Mr H authorised the disputed withdrawals. It follows that Barclays is entitled to 
hold him liable for them. 
My final decisionMy final decision is I don't uphold Mr H's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman