DRN-4342982
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as L complains that ClearBank Limited (ClearBank) have failed 
properly to compensate it for their delay returning to L funds that in error had been 
transferred to the bank. 
In bringing this complaint, L is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Ms T. 
 
What happened
In May 2023 Ms T contacted ClearBank by email to report that shed accidentally 
transferred £100 to Ls account.  
Ms T told the bank she needed to retrieve the funds urgently. She said she no longer 
had the relevant banking App and had lost the card to operate the account, so she 
needed help to do so. Ms T asked the bank to contact her as soon as possible. 
There then followed a number of exchanges of e-mails and phone calls between Ms 
T and ClearBank in an attempt to reconnect Ms T to on-line banking. But the process 
proved problematic because Ms T faced various difficulties passing the banks 
verification checks. Also, there seemed to be software issues relating to Ms Ts 
mobile phone which exacerbated those difficulties. 
Ms T therefore complained to the bank about the delay. And after looking into the 
matter, in July 2023 ClearBbank returned the funds to L. 
ClearBank acknowledged that there had been a severe and unjustified delay on their 
part as well as poor service by their Technical Team. So, ClearBank offered Ms T 
£75 by way of compensation.
Ms T, however, didnt think the £75 compensation the bank had offered went far 
enough. She believed she was entitled to three times that amount, multiplied by the 
number of weeks it took the bank to return the funds. 
The bank disagreed and as the complaint remained unresolved, Ms T referred it to this 
service. 
Our investigator concluded that the banks offer was fair and reasonable. She said as L was 
the eligible complainant, she could only look at the impact of the delay on it rather than Ms T. 
And when viewed from the perspective of L  the company, she didnt think the impact of the 
delay was significant and therefore merited an increase in compensation. 
Ms T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and has responded with further detailed 
submissions on behalf of L. But I note those submissions largely expanded on the 
arguments Ms T made originally about ClearBanks poor service and its impact on her. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that there was delay in ClearBank returning the funds to L. So, the issue for 
me to consider is really what is fair compensation for L as a result of this delay. 
I accept Ms Ts testimony that she spent a considerable amount of time trying to resolve this 
issue. And, in relation to the identity verification process for accessing the on-line banking 
service for example, I note her frustration that despite doing all that was asked of her, she 
was still unable to do so.  
I thank Ms T also for setting out so clearly and comprehensively the personal impact of the 
delay. She explained for instance how personally stressful these events were for her, not 
least because the funds were the only ones she had to live on for food and other essential 
amenities. She explained that she had therefore to borrow money to help her out in the short 
term. 
I was sorry to hear also these events took place against the background of the sad death of 
a member of Ms Ts family. She explained that meant the banks delay and poor service 
exacerbated her stress level to the point where her mental and physical health were 
impacted. Against that background it is understandable Ms T should feel the banks offer of 
£75 falls considerably short of the amount she thinks is reasonable.
But I have to bear in mind that this is a complaint that has been brought on behalf of L. I 
appreciate Ms T believes it is irrelevant whether ClearBanks poor service impacted her 
personally or L. 
But its worth mentioning that L is its own legal entity and is separate from Ms T. And, unlike 
Ms T, as a limited company L cant suffer distress, meaning in the circumstances of this case 
it is only a matter of deciding fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to L by the 
delays in returning the funds. And Ive not been persuaded that L was significantly impacted. 
Especially in light of my understanding that it hadnt yet been fully up and running and 
established. 
Im satisfied therefore that £75 compensation ClearBank have offered is fair and reasonable 
in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require ClearBank Limited to pay L £75 in full 
and final settlement of this case. 
This should be provided to L, if it hasnt been already. I dont require ClearBank Limited to do 
anything more than this, in respect of Ls complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman