DRN-2627120
The complaint
Mr R complains Lloyd & White Ltd applied unfair charges when he cancelled his commercial 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020 Mr R cancelled a commercial motor insurance policy. The pandemic meant he no 
longer required the cover. L&W provided a refund of the premiums for the remainder of the 
policy. But it retained about £62 of a £250 broker fee. It also charged Mr R a cancellation fee 
of around £68. 
Mr Rs unhappy about both costs. He says he wasnt told about the broker fee when buying 
the cover. He feels its unfair he was charged anything as he only cancelled his policy 
because the pandemic restrictions meant he wasnt getting much work as a courier. So he 
didnt need the cover and couldnt afford it. 
In response to a complaint from Mr R L&W said he had been charged in line with the policy 
terms and agreement. It said Mr R had been made aware of the broker fee when taking out 
the cover. It said because of the circumstances it had refunded £187 of that fee. It didnt 
agree to provide any further refund. 
Our investigator felt L&W had treated Mr R fairly. She felt it had acted reasonably. He didnt 
accept that so the complaint has come to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&W say Mr R was made aware of the broker fee in a phone call when taking out the policy. 
I havent been able to listen to a recording of that call so I cant be certain he was. However,  
Ive seen the cover letter sent with his policy documents. This sets out on the first page and 
fairly prominently that a £250 broker fee will be charged. The same document refers Mr R to 
L&Ws terms of business (TOB) for details of fees. It states the broker fee is non-refundable 
and that up to £75 will be charged as a cancellation fee. So it most likely to me that Mr R 
was made aware of these fees when taking out the cover.  
Mr R feels in the circumstances he should have been given a full refund of the broker fee 
and not charged any cancellation fee. Ive considered what hes said, including about the 
pandemic removing his need for this cover and reducing his income. But overall, I cant say 
L&W, in the circumstances, has acted unfairly. It hasnt refunded the full broker fee or 
completely waived the cancellation charge. But it waived about £250 of £325 (up to £75 
cancellation fee and £250 broker fee) the TOB allowed it to charge. In the circumstances I 
think that was reasonable. So Im not going to require L&W to do anything differently.    
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman