DRN-3642071
The complaint
Miss V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) failed to make reasonable adjustments for 
her disability when it notified her about reducing her overdraft limit.
What happened
Miss V has dyslexia which affects her ability to see and read correspondence on screens 
and paper. Miss V informed Lloyds of her dyslexia in 2014 and says she requested Lloyds 
send correspondence out via paper in large print. 
In December 2021 Lloyds sent an email to Miss V notifying her that her overdraft facility 
would be reduced from £1,850 to £1,280. Miss V only discovered this sometime later and 
says she was left financially anxious and distressed at this change which was during a 
period where she had started a new job and just after Christmas. Miss V says previously 
when Lloyds had reduced her overdraft it had phoned her to notify her of the reduction of the 
overdraft and she was able to choose the amount of the reduction.
Miss V called Lloyds and spoke to an advisor who told her she was listed as receiving 
paperless correspondence. Miss V explained she hadnt requested this as she was dyslexic 
and this affects the way she can see and read words written on a screen. The advisor said 
Miss V should zoom in if she wanted to read correspondence on line. Miss V was unhappy 
with the way she had been treated and raised a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds acknowledged the poor service received by Miss V during the phone call and offered 
£50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused as well as confirming it had 
made changes to the paperless correspondence going forward so Miss V wouldnt miss any 
further important notifications. On review Lloyds subsequently reduced its offer to £30 as it 
found Miss V had switched off her paper statements and this was the reason she wasnt sent 
the overdraft reduction letter by post. 
The correspondence Miss V received from Lloyds following her complaint was in normal 
print  despite Miss Vs request for large print.
Being dis-satisfied with this Miss V brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Miss Vs complaint and thought that Lloyds had failed in its duties 
under the Equality Act 2010 in making reasonable adjustments to remove barriers to using 
its services. Specifically, they thought Lloyds acted unfairly when it reduced Miss Vs 
overdraft facility and only sent the notification of this online despite being aware of Miss Vs 
disability. Our adjudicator thought to settle the complaint Lloyds should compensate Miss V 
a further £250 for the distress and inconvenience and ensure the correct method of 
correspondence is noted for Miss V in the future or provide reasonable adjustments to their 
online banking to make it more accessible for Miss V in the future. 
Lloyds confirmed that a bespoke correspondence support need indicator in on Miss Vs 
account so that she would receive correspondence in large print and offered to settle the 
complaint in-line with our adjudicators recommendations as well as providing Miss V with a 
written apology.
Miss V didnt wish to accept Lloyds offer.  She wants Lloyds to re-instate her overdraft limit 
to what it was previously without being subject to a credit check and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss V has experienced and see if Lloyds has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss V back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss V says Lloyds error was failing to make reasonable adjustments by notifying her of a 
reduction in her overdraft limit through email when she had informed it previously she had 
dyslexia and had requested paper correspondence in large print.
Lloyds have accepted it provided poor service to Miss V and have ensured going forward 
that correspondence is in paper format with large print. It has also agreed to provide Miss V 
with a written apology and award her a further £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused in-line with our adjudicators recommendations which I think is fair way 
to settle this complaint.
Miss V would like her overdraft limit reinstated without having to undergo fresh affordability 
checks. Miss V feels that is what would put her in the position she wouldve been in if the 
mistake hadnt happened. But the mistake Lloyds made wasnt in its decision to reduce her 
overdraft limit  indeed overdrafts are considered short term borrowing and are repayable on 
demand. The mistake Lloyds made was in the way it communicated with her. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to reinstate her previous overdraft limit without 
checking it is still affordable for her. Indeed, banks have a duty to ensure lending is 
affordable and so it would be irresponsible of Lloyds to provide further lending to Miss V 
without assessing the affordability of it against Miss Vs current circumstances  and this 
may well involve a credit check.
So with this in mind I think what Lloyds has already agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more. As this is the 
case, its up to Miss V to decide whether to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank Plc has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Miss V is fair and reasonable and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman