DRN-4107773
The complaint
Mr J complains esure Insurance Limited (esure) did not offer a fair market value for his car 
when it was written off in an accident.
What happened
Following an incident with his car Mr J made a claim on his motor insurance policy that he 
had with esure. 
The car was written off as a total loss. esure offered Mr J £3,334 in settlement. 
Mr J complained to esure and said he was looking for £5,000 as he had only had it for two 
months and had paid £5,500 for it.  esure reviewed its offer but did not increase it.
As Mr J  was not happy with esure, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said after checking 
another trade guide esure had been unfair to have discounted the valuation from one trade 
guide as an anomaly. And after considering the purchase price of Mr Js car they were 
persuaded that the higher guides obtained were more likely to be accurate. They said esure 
should settle Mr Js claim by using the average of the top two guide prices they had 
obtained. This being £4,581. They said esure should also add 8% simple interest on the 
difference to date of settlement. 
As esure is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided and why
In this case I have considered whether esure acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its 
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr J following the write-off of his car. My role 
is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of 
settlement is fair.
I looked at the details within Mr Js motor insurance policy with esure. Incuded in the 
schedule of insurance it states the car value as Market value. And within the the policy 
terms and conditions Market value is defined as;
The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides 
including: Glass's, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car.
When Mr J contacted esure to contest the settlement valuation he said he had only had the 
car for two months and it cost £5,500. The evidence supplied shows Mr J actually paid 
£4,995 for the car. But what he paid for the car isnt necessarily the market value at the time 
he bought it or what he is entitled to be paid out after it was written off as a total loss.
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair 
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides 
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars 
specifications, mileage etc into account. 
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however 
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the 
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices
I looked at the information esure used when calculating the settlement value and found it 
obtained four bespoke valuations from four trade guides. These valuations ranged from 
£3,143 to £4,494. esure said it discounted the higher valuation as it was an anomaly and 
therefore it was reasonable to ignore it. It offered Mr J £3,334 as an average of two 
valuations.
In situations like this where there is an anomaly identified our service would generally 
consider the other guide values closest together to give a good indication of the likely market 
value. And wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair if it is in the range of the other 
guides. But we wouldnt automatically discount an anomaly valuation.
Our service usually uses the same four motor trade guides to obtain our valuations. In this 
case three of these are the same trade guides as esure used and one was different. The 
valuation we obtained from the different trade guide was £4,668. Therefore I dont think the 
top valuation obtained by esure should have been discounted as an anomaly.
I do accept that prices of used cars can change on a regular basis. This could be an 
increase or decrease. However the guides used are updated on a regular basis. 
I am not persuaded that considering the fairly recent purchase price of the car means I 
should discount the lower valuations obtained at the date of loss.  
I dont think it is fair to discount the high valuation as esure has done in its settlement offer, 
nor do I think it is fair to discount the lower valuations in favour of just the two high 
valuations. 
I think the average of the four trade guide valuations that our service usually uses is the fair 
valuation in this case. This amount is £3,961.
 
My intended final decision
For the reasons I have given I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require esure Insurance Limited to settle Mr Js claim at £3,961, which is he 
average of the four trade guide valuations used by our service. I intend to require esure 
Insurance Limited to pay £627 to Mr J. This is the difference between the amount already 
paid £3,334 and the valuation of £3,961. Plus 8% simple interest on the difference to date of 
settlement. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J  responded to say he didnt have anymore information to provide and was happy with 
the outcome.esure responded to say it would agree to the decision provided it was supplied with a copy of 
the different trade valuation that was used by our service. To enable it to validate the correct 
vehicle details etc. had been used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A copy of the valuation was sent to esure.
As Mr J accepted my provisional decision, and as we have provided esure with the valuation 
it requested, I maintain my provisional decision. I think the average of the four trade guide 
valuations that our service used is the fair valuation in this case. 
I therefore uphold Mr Js complaint and require esure to settle his claim at £3,961, which is 
the average of the four trade guide valuations used by our service. I require esure to pay 
£627 to Mr J. This is the difference between the amount already paid £3,334 and the 
valuation of £3,961. Plus 8% simple interest on the difference to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require esure Insurance Limited to settle Mr Js claim at £3,961. I require esure Insurance 
Limited to pay £627 to Mr J. This is the difference between the amount already paid £3,334 
and the valuation of £3,961. Plus 8% simple interest on the difference to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman