DRN-2877684
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of herself and the late Mr S about Lang Financial Scotland
Limited, referred to as Lang.
Shes unhappy about the time taken by Lang to action their instructions to encash the
investments.
  
What happened
In my provisional decision of late May 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms part 
of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Lang says, overall, Im not
persuaded that it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ss request to encash their investments reasonably.
By way of redress, subject to any further submissions, provisionally I think Lang should pay
redress on the basis of the encashment values Mrs S (and Mr S) received, compared to the
value they wouldve received had their instructions to encash been carried out, without
seeking the CGT report. I think that Lang should also pay Mrs S £150 compensation for the
trouble and upset caused.
But before I explain why, its important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mrs S has
about this matter. Im also very sorry for the sad death of her husband Mr S, I appreciate this
must be a difficult time for her.
Mrs S has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope that she wont take the fact my findings focus on what
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im
required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating,
but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs S (and previously Mr S) and Lang, and
reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the
case, rather than take any sides.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have
happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Lang says about the CGT report,
I think it shouldve actioned Mr and Mrs Ss instructions to encash their investment, as soon
as possible, as per their request. In other words, keyed in the request as soon as it was
satisfied that the request was from them.
Im satisfied that they werent seeking advice from Lang, or wanting to clarify matters
regarding CGT before encashing. Whilst I appreciate that in ordinary circumstances a CGT
report can be beneficial for an investor deciding when and how much to encash  its not
something that was a priority for Mr and Mrs S given why they wanted the money. Therefore,
in the circumstances I dont think it was reasonable to delay the encashment process to
obtain a report, even if Lang was following a process.
In other words, Lang shouldve simply done what it was asked to do. Mr and Mrs S had
already made up their minds, without advice and for personal reasons, that they needed the
money as soon as possible. I appreciate Lang says it was documented that they had the
option not to wait on its calculations, but on balance I dont think they were specifically told
this. I think its likely they were led to believe that they couldnt continue without the CGT
report. I note Mr S only found out that they didnt need the CGT report after directly
contacting the investment platform provider.
I note Mr and Mrs S said: It is our money, our investments and our decision to encash those
investments when we see fit and I agree with that sentiment.
That notwithstanding, I cant blame Lang for parts of the process that involved third-party
businesses, and procedures that are out of its hands, such as the process of withdrawing
from various individual funds and so on. In other words, Im not suggesting that Lang should
be accountable for the time taken by any third-party.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S expected things to happen within a time frame, but things dont
always go to plan when other parties are involved. But this doesnt automatically mean that
Lang is to blame for the potential short comings of others if indeed that was the case. In this
case Im only considering the actions of Lang.
For the reasons above, I think regardless of when the various individual investments were
encashed  Lang should pay redress on the basis of each of those being encashed five days 
sooner, which is roughly the time spent trying to sort out the CGT report. In my opinion this 
methodology also takes into account any delays caused by the trades that took place on 3 
and 5 March, and ones that couldnt have been done until later.
I note Lang says that it wouldnt have made a difference to the overall time taken to process
the request but on balance I dont agree, as Lang spent time trying to obtain the CGT report
rather than keying in the encashment of the funds and starting the process, based on Mr and
Mrs Ss actual instructions.
I think Lang, from the outset, couldve done more to communicate with Mr and Mrs S the
realistic time scales, and what information they did and didnt need to process the request.
I agree with Mrs S that this wouldve helped them manage their expectation better and
enabled them to make a more informed choice about whether (or not) they wished to
continue with all, or part of, the encashment. Instead they were left waiting and wondering
when theyd receive their money in what was clearly very difficult circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs S is unhappy that their instructions werent carried out by a qualified IFA,
but I dont think it was necessary for an IFA to personally carry out their instructions to
encash their investment. In other words, its common industry practice that instructions to
encash investments are carried out by administrative/backroom staff.
Bearing in mind Mr and Mrs S werent seeking advice - theyd already decided, without
advice and for personal reasons, to encash their investment  I think its unlikely that anadviser wouldve been any more able to carry out the task than an office manager, who I
think was adequately equipped to action the task which didnt actually involve any financial
advice.
Despite what Mr and Mrs S said, Im aware that businesses have (for security reasons)
procedures that they need to follow, which can and often do include wet signature 
applications. So, in the circumstances I cant blame Lang for requiring a wet signature 
confirmation of their instructions, I dont think it introduced an unnecessary step. I also dont
think it has done anything wrong by refusing to carry out instructions over the phone and by
email alone given the rise of telephone and email hacking frauds.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S had telephone dealings with Lang in the past, Im mindful
that they were instructing it to encash their entire holdings  to a value of around £700,000 
so the circumstances were quite different. I also dont think Lang has done anything wrong
by asking them to confirm their bank account details. Im aware that people change accounts
and dont always want the proceeds of their encashment to be paid into the same account.
I should make clear that in this instance the value of the investments is dependent on the
stockmarket. In the circumstances I dont think that Lang is liable for any losses that
occurred as result of market movement, because the stockmarket isnt something that it has
any control over. It also couldnt have predicted a global pandemic that took much of the
world by surprise, or the impact that it would have on financial markets. This point is
separate to the basis upon which Im minded to uphold this complaint and the redress I think
Lang should pay.
I agree with the business that its not possible at a given point in time, to look at the valuation
at a set price, instruct a sale and know what price the fund will ultimately sell at. I dont think
Mrs S disagrees that the value of the fund can rise and fall, however I still think shes entitled
to what the value of her individual investments wouldve been if the instructions to encash
had been carried out earlier, and her investments had been encashed five days sooner.
Im aware of the history with the adviser who introduced Mr and Mrs S to Lang, who then
himself had a falling out with it. But whether (or not) that adviser advised them to encash
their investments is immaterial  although given what Mr and Mrs S say about why they
needed the money I dont think he did  Lang was still duty bound to follow their instructions
to encash their investments without delay, and thats principally why Im minded to uphold
this complaint.
Mrs S agreed with my provisional decision but made the following observations:
In case Lang challenged my decision, her complaint has two main components:
oAll of Mr Ss investments were ISAs, and the majority of her investments 
were ISAs. Lang shouldve been aware that Capital Gains Tax (CGT) doesnt 
apply to ISAs and shouldve commenced the encashment of all their ISAs on 
2 March 2020, as per Mr Ss verbal and written instructions. 
oNeither she, nor Mr S, have received a closing statement in any form, 
confirming what was sold, when they were sold, and that the sales were 
complete. 
Lang also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it made the 
following key comments:
Its provided email evidence of Mr Ss request to wait and obtain the report, so why 
did I think the email wasnt a confirmation of his instructions?It has sought the opinion of two compliance consultants, two IFA firms and a financial 
services trainer, none of whom think it has done anything wrong. Theyve all 
confirmed its process is robust and customer focused.  
It had to comply with COBS 9.5A and believes it has discharged its duty.
It appreciates any delays from the provider do seem unusual, but this was the 
situation it faced. Therefore, any loss of value should be questioned with the 
investment provider. 
I should listen to all the calls between itself and the provider, they confirm that the 
sale couldnt happen in the timescales suggested by Mrs S. 
In the event that I dont change my mind, the investment provider will need to contact 
21 fund managers and request calculations on what the final sell price wouldve 
been, based on my methodology.
The time scales for sell to cash vary with every fund manager. 
The background trades were stopping the trades going ahead, this was confirmed by 
the investment provider. 
Until now its been quiet about a number of other unusual factors in this case, namely 
Mr Ss very close relationship with the adviser  who has since been charged with 
fraud. 
Mr S has in the past made a very serious allegation against the adviser who was 
previously working with a different business, resulting in the advisers resignation. Its 
the same adviser who introduced Mr S and Mrs S to itself. This is the reason why it 
challenged Mr S about being under the influence of the adviser who it had to in due 
course dismiss. This brings into question the integrity of Mr S and the adviser.  
Mrs S and Mr S said that their daughter was going through a divorce, but this isnt 
true, as the daughter is a client of theirs.  
If this wasnt a complaint about delays it wouldve been about CGT or some other 
issue, either way a complaint wouldve been made against it.     
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Notwithstanding the points made by Lang, I dont consider that any new material points have 
been made. Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have been considered 
by me, in my provisional decision (PD). 
I appreciate what Lang says about Mr Ss email response (dated 4 March 2020), but I dont 
agree with its interpretation. In other words, in my opinion the email  read in context  isnt 
Mr S requesting a CGT report, but responding to Langs recommendation that he should 
have one, but he was still unhappy about how long it would take. It doesnt make clear that in 
the circumstances he and Mrs S dont have to have one, rather that theyd be going against 
Langs advice.  
I note the quote from Lang  dated 4 March 2020  says:
I was unable to post out the letter for you to sign and return as the investment provider 
(name anonymised) have advised that the report required to ensure there will be no Capital 
Gains Tax implications on Mrs S's (name anonymised) investments if she were to fully 
encash, won't be available until Friday 6th March.As soon as I have the calculations I will email and write to you with the figures and you 
can advise on how you wish to proceed.
However, if you wish to go against our advice and request for the investments to be sold 
without the calculations being ran, this would be at your discretion. We would highly 
recommend against this but I can get a letter out to you today to sign and return if this is the 
option you would prefer to take.
Mr S then says:
thanks for your response all be it the delay is a bit disappointing. Not having been in this 
position before and certainly not an expert on Capital Gains Tax, it does strike me as strange 
and disappointing that it takes five working days to run a report on an investment of 
approximately 250k.
As I say, I am certainly no expert and that being the case I will take your advice
and await the report from (the provider) name anonymised. 
As you will be aware, this is an extremely volatile time in the markets and delays
could cause considerable impact, therefore, I rely on your commitment to keep on
top of our request...
Mr Ss response would suggest that he wasnt a CGT expert so would wait for the report 
from the provider  based on Langs advice  that was likely to take an additional five days. 
On balance Im satisfied Mr S didnt know that he and Mrs S could proceed without it, in 
other words that the report wasnt required. 
Im mindful that this was against the background of their initial email to Lang dated 1 March 
2020, three days earlier, in which Mr and Mrs S made clear the following:
I write to inform you that both Mrs S (name anonymised) and I have decided to close our 
investments in their entirety with Lang Financial
We would appreciate if you could arrange for the investments to be encashed as soon as 
possible from the above date.
I also note in their subsequent complaint letter to Lang  dated 13 March 2020  Mr and Mrs 
S said:
I have significant commitments coming up and so have been watching the markets carefully 
and recognised that a major fall was likely. With that in mind I wrote to you on the 1st March 
2020 requesting that our investments be encashed as soon as possible. At 10:24 the 
following morning (2nd March) I received a call from (name anonymised) your office manager 
seeking clarification as to whether I wished to encash all investments or simply separate 
from Lang Financial. I informed her that I required full encashment and that it should be done 
as soon as possible. (Office Manager) informed me that there may be some tax implications 
which I disputed since all my investments were ISA's and that Margaret did not pay lax.
In the circumstances, Im not suggesting that Lang simply doesnt have robust processes, or 
that it isnt customer focused. Im referring to this specific complaint in which, on balance, I 
think it failed to carry out Mr Ss and Mrs Ss instructions for cashing in their investments as 
soon as possible.   Based on what Lang says, I dont think that COBS 9.5A  guidance for firms with insistent 
clients  is necessarily relevant here. In any case, Im satisfied that Lang was advising him 
and Mrs S to have something that he didnt of his own volition want or need. So, by not 
asking for the CGT report, and doing what Mr S and Mrs S asked for, doesnt mean that itd 
be in breach of COBS 9.5A. 
I appreciate what Lang says about timescales, but Im not suggesting that the transfer 
shouldve taken place within a specific time period (that is, five days) as Mr and Mrs S had 
expected based on information that they received from the investment provider. Im aware 
that the timescale can be dependent on the individual fund managers. 
In my PD, I said:
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S expected things to happen within a time frame, but things dont
always go to plan when other parties are involved. But this doesnt automatically mean that
Lang is to blame for the potential short comings of others if indeed that was the case. In this
case Im only considering the actions of Lang.
I maintain that Lang isnt responsible for the actions of third parties, however, its responsible 
for not placing the order soon after it was requested to do so by Mr S. Thats not the same 
as not being able to complete the request within a set period. 
I note that Lang says that timescales can vary between three and eight days, thats why for 
the purposes of redress I said that regardless of when the various individual investments 
were encashed  Lang should pay redress on the basis of each of those being encashed 
five days sooner, which is roughly the time spent trying to sort out the CGT report. In my 
opinion this methodology, takes into account any delays caused by the trades that took 
place on 3 and 5 March 2020, and the ones that couldnt have been done until later. 
Whilst I appreciate what Lang says about my methodology of redress, it hasnt offered an 
alternative.
I appreciate what Mrs S says about what Lang shouldve known in terms of the ISAs and tax 
implications, but whether it did or shouldve  perhaps it shouldve  Im still not persuaded 
that it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ss request to encash their investments reasonably.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Lang says about the CGT report,
I still think it shouldve actioned Mr and Mrs Ss instructions to encash their investment, as 
soon as possible, as per their request. In other words, keyed in the request as soon as it was
satisfied that the request was from them. 
Despite the points made by the business, Im satisfied that they werent seeking advice from 
Lang, or wanting to clarify matters regarding CGT before encashing. Whilst I appreciate that 
in ordinary circumstances a CGT report can be beneficial for an investor deciding when and 
how much to encash  its not something that was a priority for Mr and Mrs S given that they 
wanted their money rather urgently, whether or not it was for their daughter who they say 
was going through a divorce. Therefore, in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think it 
was reasonable to delay the encashment process to obtain a report, even if Lang was 
following a process.
I appreciate what the business says about Mr S and his dealings with the adviser. Im also 
mindful of its comments about the adviser and potential fraud charges, but in my opinion 
none of this justifies or explains its actions in failing to carry out their instructions as soon as 
possible rather than asking for a CGT report. Even if Lang was trying to cover all bases, in case of a complaint coming its way, and thats 
why it sought a CGT report  although Im not saying that it was  I still dont think this 
justified Lang simply not doing what it was asked to do. 
I appreciate what Lang says about the relationship of Mr S (and Mrs S) with the adviser, and 
I acknowledge that there is probably some background. Im aware Lang says that this 
complaint is therefore vexatious and that its likely Mr S (and Mrs S) wouldve complained 
about a different issue, if they hadnt complained about the delays. But regardless of what 
Lang says mightve happened, Im unable to say that this complaint shouldnt be treated as a 
legitimate complaint, or that it shouldnt be upheld based on what Ive considered.  
  
Putting things right
Lang Financial Scotland Limited should do the following:
1. Compare the encashment values received by Mr and Mrs S from their investments,
with the encashment values they wouldve received if their investments had been
encashed five days earlier.
2. If theres a loss, Lang Financial Scotland Limited should pay Mrs S the difference,
with 8% simple interest from the date of encashment to the date of settlement.
3. Lang Financial Scotland Limited should pay Mrs S £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused, if it hasnt done so already. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Lang Financial Scotland Limited pay redress as set out above:
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman