DRN-2938281
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was supplied with a cooker which was not of satisfactory quality 
under a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a credit agreement with Creation to fund the purchase of a cooker on 7 
January 2020. 
In June 2020 Mrs D asked Creation to raise a section 75 (s75) claim because she wasnt 
satisfied with the cookers performance. She said that shed followed a recipe which said the 
cooking time of a sponge was 30 minutes at number 4, but to achieve the desired results in 
her oven, it required a further 25 minutes at number 6. 
Creation didnt think that Mrs D had a valid s75 claim. Ultimately it responded to a 
subsequent complaint about the outcome of the claim made by Mrs D in September 2020. It 
suggested that Mrs D take the issue up with the manufacturer.
Mrs D referred the matter to this service. She explained her cooker doesnt stay at a 
constant temperature which means she has to monitor cooking progress and turn the 
temperature up. She also said that it takes longer than it should to cook things.
Mrs D said that the cookers manufacturer sent an engineer to inspect it and they told her 
that that because it was a Turkish brand of cooker it would perform differently to, for 
example, a British made one. She said that the engineer would not check the thermostat to 
see if it needed calibrating. She said that the supplier had mis-sold the cooker because it 
hadnt explained that it would work differently to a British cooker. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ds complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In summary, 
they said that Mrs Ds claim had been raised just outside of six months from the point of 
supply, it had been inspected by an engineer who didnt find it necessary to attempt repairs, 
so there wasnt sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the cooker was not of satisfactory 
quality. They also said that they hadnt been presented with evidence that the cookers 
country of origin meant it performed differently, or that the supplier had misled Ms D about it. 
Mrs D disagreed. She maintained that the cookers temperature was not consistent and 
clarified that the supplier ought to be clearer regarding the cookers level of performance. 
She also said that she would not have complained if the manufacturers engineer had 
replaced the thermostat.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mrs D has said I think its clear that she feels strongly that she ought to have a 
successful claim under s75. Mrs D has made a number of detailed submissions about why 
she thinks her claim should be successful. I wont address every point Mrs D has raised 
because I dont think thats necessary to explain what I consider a fair and reasonable 
outcome is in the circumstances. I can, however, assure Mrs D that Ive fully considered 
everything shes said and sent us.
In deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs Ds complaint, I have to take into account 
relevant law, amongst other things. The relevant law here is s75. It makes Creation 
responsible for a breach of contract in respect of goods or services provided under Mrs Ds 
agreement. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this case. It says that for a contract 
to conform, goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied  defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. 
The CRA also contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to the contract within 
six months of the date of supply, that they didnt conform at the time of supply. This 
presumption applies unless its shown that the goods did conform to the contract at the time. 
In the specific circumstances of this case, Mrs D was supplied with a new item. So, Id 
expect it to be free from defects for a reasonable period of time. Id also expect it to be 
sufficiently durable.
Im aware that Mrs D contacted Creation within six months of the point of supply  June 
2020. It seems that Mrs D may have referred the matter to the supplier, and did refer it to the 
manufacturer. Its not clear when she did this  Creations records suggest it may have been 
sometime in July 2020 but Mrs Ds correspondence suggests it was June 2020.
In any case, whether Mrs D had raised the issue just within or outside of six months from 
supply, Id have expected Creation, perhaps, to commission an inspection of the cooker 
given what Mrs D said about its performance. That is, if one hadnt been carried out already. 
Mrs D has told us that following her contact with the manufacturer it sent an engineer to 
inspect the cooker. She told us that the engineer didnt provide her with a report, but she has 
given us her testimony about what they said and what happened.
From what Mrs D has said, I have no doubts that shes not satisfied with her cookers 
performance. But that doesnt mean to say that the cooker isnt of satisfactory quality. To 
establish that, Ive based my decision on the available evidence, which is Mrs Ds testimony 
about the problem she experienced with her cooker, as well as what shes said she was told 
by the engineer who inspected it.
From what Mrs Ds said it sounds like the cooker was covered by a manufacturers warranty, 
which is likely why it sent an engineer to inspect it. Mrs D has told us that the engineer didnt 
make any repairs, specifically declining to adjust or replace the thermostat. Mrs D says that 
the engineer didnt provide a written report, but on balance, Im persuaded that the engineer 
likely would have attempted or recommended repairs if theyd found it necessary. 
Additionally, my interpretation of Mrs Ds account of her exchange with the engineer is that 
they told Mrs D the cooker was working satisfactorily.
Ive also considered what Mrs D told us the engineer said about it being necessary to turn 
the cooker up higher than a British made variant to achieve the same result. I wasnt present 
during that conversation, so I dont know exactly what was said. In any case, even if I accept 
the engineer had said something along those lines, I dont think its unreasonable to expect 
that cookers made by different manufacturers might achieve the same or similar results 
whilst using different settings. So, based on Mrs Ds account of her conversation with the 
engineer Im not satisfied that it suggests the cooker wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator invited Mrs D to provide further evidence to support her claim that the 
cooker didnt hold its temperature correctly, and suggested that Mrs D might be able to do 
this by supplying pictorial evidence of a thermometer showing a difference in temperature 
readings, or an independent report on the cooker. Mrs D asked this service to obtain a report from the manufacturer, but I think it was for Mrs D to obtain and provide such evidence, and 
shes had sufficient opportunity to do so. Mrs D otherwise didnt provide further evidence. 
Overall, based on what Ive said above, I consider there to be reasonably strong evidence 
that the cooker was of satisfactory quality. I think it was for Mrs D to provide evidence to 
demonstrate that it wasnt, but I dont think shes done that. As a result, Im not persuaded 
theres been a breach of contract. And it follows that I dont think it was unfair for Creation to 
turn down Mrs Ds claim. 
Lastly, like our investigator, Im not satisfied that Mrs Ds cooker was mis-represented to her. 
I say this in the most part because Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that she was told a 
false statement of fact about the cookers performance. Im also not persuaded that the 
particular brand of cooker Mrs D purchased doesnt perform on a similar level to a British 
made equivalent, so I dont think the supplier ought to have communicated that, as Mrs D 
suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman