DRN-2443506
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has unfairly 
recorded an incident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Hes also 
unhappy that his premium was increased by LV despite a reduction in the estimated 
mileage.
What happened
Mr S vehicle was hit by a third party whilst it was stationary. Mr S informed LV of the 
incident, but didnt make a claim as the third party offered to pay for the repair privately.
LV recorded the incident on the CUE database as notification only and Mr S says this has 
increased his premiums. Mr S doesnt think it is far that LV recorded the incident on the CUE 
database as he didnt make a claim. He says he was not warned that the information he 
provided would be shared with other insurers.
Mr S premium in 2020 came to a total of £453.37. This is higher than the premium of 
£433.63 in 2019 despite a reduction in the estimate mileage. Mr S is unhappy with LVs 
explanation of this increase.
When Mr S brought his complaint to us, our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought LV had 
acted fairly in recording the information Mr S had provided. Because Mr S didnt agree with 
our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances leading to the incident being reported arent disputed. What is in dispute 
is whether or not LV recorded the incident fairly on the CUE database which has led to Mr S 
paying higher premiums.
Mr S reported the incident to LV  this is something he had a responsibility to do under the 
terms of his policy, whether or not he intended to make a claim. LV didnt record that Mr S 
had made a claim on the policy; it recorded a notification of an incident.
Mr S says LV recorded this information on CUE without his permission and didnt tell him the 
information would be passed to other insurers and lead to increased premiums. The policy 
terms make it clear that LV may use personal information and exchange it with other 
organisations. And this is common within insurance policies. So I dont see LV had an 
obligation to warn Mr S of this or obtain his permission when he made contact to report the 
incident.
Mr S says other insurers have increased the premiums quoted when they found out about 
the incident through the information LV recorded, and this has effectively prevented him 
obtaining competitive insurance premiums from insurers other than his current insurer. He 
thinks only claims should be recorded on CUE.
But its not simply the information on CUE that is relevant. Whether or not LV recorded the 
incident, Mr S has an obligation to answer any questions asked by a prospective insurer 
accurately. So if Mr S applies for insurance and is asked a question about incidents within 
the timeframe that the incident took place, he would be expected to disclose the information 
anyway. If Mr S is arguing that LV recording this information has prevented him from not 
disclosing this information to other insurers, I dont consider this reasonable.
Keeping in mind the details of the incident as provided by Mr S, I think LV has accurately 
recorded the incident so I cant reasonably ask it to change or remove the record.
LV has provided an explanation regarding the insurance premiums and Ive not seen any 
evidence to show it treated Mr S unfairly or discriminated against him in calculating it. 
Insurance rates are reviewed periodically and can change. It is not a given that premiums 
will decrease year on year or even stay the same.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman