DRN-2592477
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs Y complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim on their 
Home Insurance policy. 
Any references to UKI also includes their appointed agents.
 
What happened
Mr P and Mrs Ys boiler broke down in November 2020, leaving them without heating and 
hot water. They contacted UKI to raise a claim under the Home Emergency cover  but an 
engineer couldnt attend right away and so UKI told Mr P and Mrs Y to buy two heaters, 
which it would reimburse.
 
An engineer inspected the boiler the following day but was unable to repair it without 
ordering a replacement part. UKI reviewed the claim before ordering the part and asked 
Mr P and Mrs Y for some documents to confirm the boiler had been maintained  as they 
potentially wouldnt cover the claim if it hadnt been.
Mr P and Mrs Y emailed the required documents to UKI, however UKI didnt acknowledge 
receipt. Following some back and forth between Mr P and UKI, Mr P was asked to send the 
documents again.
 
Mr P and Mrs Y called to chase UKI several times as they hadnt been updated about the 
progress of the claim. Following this, UKI reviewed the documents and ordered the part, with 
the repair being completed around just under two weeks from when Mr P and Mrs Y first 
contacted UKI about the claim.
Mr P and Mrs Y were unhappy with the length of time the claim had taken. UKI said it hadnt 
immediately reviewed the documents provided by Mr P and Mrs Y, and this had caused 
delays. UKI offered Mr P and Mrs Y £100 for the inconvenience caused. Mr P and Mrs Y 
didnt think this was enough to consider the impact of living without heating in their property 
for almost two weeks. 
An investigator said UKI hadnt dealt with the claim as they shouldve, and this caused 
unnecessary delays. Initially she recommended UKI pay an additional £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. Following a review of some further information provided by 
Mr P and Mrs Y, she increased the compensation to an additional £200. 
UKI agreed with the investigators recommendations, but Mr P and Mrs Y didnt feel this was 
enough. As they disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and Mrs Y have raised several complaint points. I havent responded to each 
individually, rather Ive focussed on the points I think are key to the complaint, and more in 
keeping with our remit as an alternative dispute resolution service to determine complaints 
quickly and with minimal formality. 
A claim of this nature will always cause a certain amount of inconvenience, especially if 
replacement parts need to be ordered. And this isnt something UKI is able to avoid. But UKI 
has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Following the engineers initial visit, UKI requested further documents to ensure the claim 
was covered. I think this was reasonable as its fair UKI would want to review all the 
available information about the maintenance of the boiler before accepting the claim. 
Policies dont cover wear and tear and a boiler is supposed to be serviced annually.
UKI shouldve progressed the claim as quickly as possible once the documents were 
received  especially as they were aware Mr P and Mrs Y had no heating or hot water during 
this time. The nature of cover is that there is likely to be an emergency, and so Id expect 
there to be some urgency within which documents are considered. But I cant see UKI did 
this, and the documents werent reviewed as quickly as they should have. This caused 
avoidable delays in ordering the replacement part and meant Mr P and Mrs Y had to wait 
longer for the repair to be completed. 
I can also see Mr P and Mrs Y were told someone would be in touch to update them on the 
claim, and when this didnt happen, they had to call UKI repeatedly to find out how things 
were progressing. I think this couldve been avoided had UKI been proactive and kept Mr P 
and Mrs Y updated.
Ive carefully considered the impact of UKIs mistakes had on Mr P and Mrs Y and the fairest 
way to put this right, taking their individual circumstances into account. 
UKI had arranged for Mr P and Mrs Y to have two heaters at the beginning of the claim in 
order to minimise the impact of having no heating. But I take on board Mr P and Mrs Ys 
comments that two heaters only provided a limited amount of heat in their home  and they 
were still without hot water. So, they were still impacted by the delays even though UKI had 
tried to minimise this.
Due to UKIs errors, Mr P and Mrs Y had to live for longer than necessary with limited 
heating or hot water, which had an impact on their day to day lives during this time  
especially as they live with their children and elderly parents. UKI also failed to manage Mr P 
and Mrs Ys expectations throughout the claim and as a result, they had to chase UKI 
several times. And UKI requested they resend documents that had already been received, 
which caused further frustration.
 
Putting things right
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint carefully, UKI must pay Mr P and 
Mrs Y a further £200 (bringing the total to £300) for the upset and inconvenience caused. Im 
satisfied this reflects the short-lived impact of UKIs errors. Im not persuaded by what Mr P 
and Mrs Y have provided that UKIs error led directly to any discernible health issues or loss 
of income. 
I appreciate Mr P and Mrs Y say they may go to court as they think theyll get more 
compensation, and this is a matter for them. In most cases, where a consumer accepts any award made by the ombudsman's final decision its highly unlikely that they would be able to 
go to court to ask for more compensation1. If they are thinking of doing this may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before accepting my decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Y a further £200 
(bringing the total to £300).
- UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P 
and Mrs Y accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
1 Clark v In Focus Asset Management & Tax Solutions Ltd [2014] EWCA Civ 118