DRN-3258931
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly closed his account and have lied 
about the events that led up to this.
What happened
Mr M went into a Nationwide branch as he says he wanted to withdraw £600 in total that 
day. As he was unable to withdraw the full amount from an Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM), he went to queue up to withdraw £400 over the branch counter. 
Mr M says that a member of staff told him there were two people waiting in front of him. Mr 
M says that he saw another woman using an ATM in the branch who then went to queue for 
the counter and then the staff member told Mr M that there were three people waiting ahead 
of him in the queue which Mr M said was a lie and he defended his place in the queue.
When Mr M spoke to the cashier, he says he was told he could have just withdrawn the £400 
from the ATM, which Mr M knew he couldnt have withdrawn £600+ out of the ATM based on 
what had happened on a previous occasion. Mr M says that when he was leaving the 
branch, the branch manager and another member of staff said they were going to escort him 
out of the branch. Mr M told them he would speak to customer services as he said the staff 
were abusing their power. Mr M spoke to customer services. 
Mr M made a complaint to Nationwide, but they did not uphold it. Nationwide said that on his 
visit to the branch on 25 October 2021, he had been rude, aggressive and insulting, to not 
only their staff, but to other members. Nationwide said that in the call he had with their 
customer service agent on 26 October 2021, he swore at her, which resulted in the call 
being terminated. As a result of these instances, they were going to close his account and 
terminate his banking relationship with them with effect from 4 December 2021.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our investigator said that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong, as the evidence provided 
from Nationwide showed that its more than likely the staff members felt he was being rude 
and abusive, which led to Nationwide making a business decision to close his account.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He asked for the branch Closed 
Circuit Television (CCTV) to be viewed, which would evidence that Nationwide had lied 
about what happened in the branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered, listened to and read 
everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal 
body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must make Mr M aware that our service is looking into a separate issue hes raised about 
Nationwide. As a result I will not be making any reference to the separate issue hes raised 
and an outcome regarding this issue will be communicated separately to him. I will be 
focusing here on the issues Mr M has raised regarding the events on 25-26 October 2021 
and the decision from Nationwide to close his account.  
First of all Ive considered what happened when Mr M visited the branch on 25 October 
2021. I can understand why Mr M needed to use the branch counter as hes said he wanted 
to withdraw at least £600 that day and he could only withdraw a maximum of £500 from the 
ATM with the account he has. So he would need to use the branch counter to withdraw 
some of this cash. It would be Mr Ms prerogative of how much of this to withdraw at the 
counter. He chose to withdraw £400 at the counter. 
Mr M has told us that the cashier who served him said he couldve just withdrawn the £400 
from the ATM. While Mr M knew he would be taking more cash out and wanted to withdraw 
a total of £600+ out that day, the cashier may not have been aware of what Mr M was 
intending to withdraw in total that day. I can see from Mr Ms account activity that he had 
made no cash withdrawals from the ATM that day, prior to going to the branch counter, then 
he withdrew £230 within an hour of withdrawing the £400 at the branch counter, so I cant 
say the cashier did anything wrong here.
So Ive considered what happened leading up to the interaction at the branch counter. When 
it comes to complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence 
available to me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that 
is, whats more likely to have happened in the circumstances.
So I asked Nationwide if they could provide me the CCTV of Mr Ms visit to the branch on 25 
October 2021. While this wouldnt provide audio, it would allow me to see if the footage 
would corroborate Mr Ms testimony over the Nationwide staffs testimonies or vice versa.
Nationwide have told me that the CCTV is not available from 25 October 2021, as it is only 
retained for a set period of time and this time has elapsed. So while it would have been 
useful for me to view this footage, Im unable to say what exactly happened here. So I think 
whats likely to have happened here is that either the staff member who had told Mr M that 
there was two people in front of him in the queue, forgot that there was another customer 
using the ATM who was also in front of him, or Mr M was told there was three people in front 
of him but misheard as he only saw two people in front of him. 
But Im not persuaded that the Nationwide staff member lied about a woman being in front of 
him in the queue who was using the ATM. On the balance of probabilities Im persuaded she 
was in the queue before Mr M and she was asked by the Nationwide colleague what she 
wanted to do at the counter. And she told them she wanted to withdraw money and they 
directed her to the ATM to withdraw some of the money first, before completing her other 
transaction at the counter, just like Mr M couldnt complete his full transaction at the ATM 
that day based on what he was wanting to withdraw in total for the day.
Although I cant say whether Mr M made the comments the staff members said he made, Mr 
Ms said he was escorted out of the branch by two members of staff, one of which was the 
branch manager. So on the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that its likely he did 
make comments that were deemed offensive for him to be escorted out of the branch. It 
would seem unlikely for the staff to take this action for no reason.
Ive then considered what happened the following day. Ive listened to three calls Mr M had 
with Nationwide the following day. The second call ends with the line being disconnected 
after 28 seconds, although its not clear why.On the third call, Mr M rang Nationwide back and asks the call agent why nobody had rang 
him back when the line had been disconnected from the previous call. The call agent says 
she doesnt understand the nature of the previous call or why the call had been cut off and 
she asks Mr M how she can help him. She then tries to go through security with Mr M but he 
insults the call handler and swears at her, which leads to the call agent disconnecting the 
call. 
Based on the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account, section 78 states We may close your 
account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances. These might 
include d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff. 
So although Nationwide didnt close Mr Ms account immediately and gave him until 4 
December 2021 to seek alternative banking arrangements, Nationwide deemed the 
language used by Mr M to be abusive. So while I understand Mr M may have been frustrated 
by his previous call being disconnected, I cant say Nationwide acted unreasonably by taking 
the actions that they did after the language Mr M used on the call, leading for the call agent 
to disconnect the call. So regardless of what happened in the branch the previous day, Im 
persuaded that Nationwide were entitled, based on their terms and conditions to serve him 
notice to close his account based on the call alone on 26 October 2021. So it follows, I wont 
be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman