DRN-3351471
The complaint
Mrs F complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited says her life 
assurance policy started in 1976. However, she says it was taken out in the mid-1950s so 
she believes 20 years of premiums have been lost.
What happened
Mrs F contacted Royal London about her life assurance policy. It told her that the start date 
was 1976 but Mrs F says that it was actually taken in the mid-1950s. Mrs F complained as 
she believes that 20 years of premiums have disappeared.
Royal London provided Mrs F with its records which say that the policy started in November 
1976. It also provided Mrs F with a copy of the proposal form that she signed in 1976. Mrs F 
was unhappy that Royal London didnt uphold her complaint and referred it to the Financial 
Ombudsman.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the records 
available show that the policy was taken out in November 1976. He said that, as Mrs F 
couldnt provide any evidence to show that she was paying into the policy before this date, 
he didnt think Royal London had made an error. Mrs F disagreed and said that the proposal 
form refers to her already having a policy and indicates that this policy was a continuation. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will be disappointing to Mrs F, but Ive reached the same outcome as our 
Investigator. Ill explain why.
Royal London took over from the original provider of Mrs Fs policy in 2000. Any policies that 
were in force at the time were moved to Royal London, and it was given the information to 
show when these policies started. Royal London has provided its system records to show 
that the policy Mrs F is complaining about started in November 1976.
Royal London was also able to provide a copy of the proposal form. I can see that the 
proposal form has the same number as Mrs Fs policy on there, and it shows it will 
commence in November 1976. Mrs F has signed this proposal form and dated it in 
November 1976. So, the evidence Ive seen suggests its very likely this policy started in 
1976, and not the mid-1950s as Mrs F recalls.
I can see the proposal form refers to Mrs F being assured already by the policy provider, so 
its possible there was another policy in place at the time and this may be the one that Mrs F 
recalls starting in the mid-1950s. But as Royal London has no record of this its unlikely this 
policy was passed over to it when it took over the original providers business in 2000. 
Mrs F has referred to questions asked on the proposal form which she believes indicates 
that this policy was a continuation. But I dont think the form indicates that. Ive referenced 
the specific questions below with why I dont think this shows it was a continuation.
Question 4 says Is the life to be assured already assured with this office?  this question is 
answered yes. So it may be that there was a policy in force at the time, in 1976, the 
covered Mrs Fs life. She may not have been the owner or proposer of this policy.
Question 5 says Is there any other assurance by this proposer in force on this life to be 
assured with this or any other office? -  This question is answered no  which shows that 
Mrs F wasnt a proposer of a policy before this one.
Question 6 says Is the proposed policy a substitution for any other policy with this office or a 
transfer from any other office or society?  This question is answered no which I think 
indicates that it is a new policy.
Mrs F has referred to having a policy started by her mother in the 1950s, and the questions 
above may indicate this was the case. But from the evidence Ive seen, I think this policy 
started in November 1976, when Mrs F completed the proposal form. And I dont think that 
any policy taken out before this date with the previous provider was in force when Royal 
London took over the policy. It follows that I dont think Royal London has made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman