DRN-4267989
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with Vitality Health Limiteds handling of their claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have private medical insurance with Vitality. In November 2022, Mrs M 
claimed on the policy as she was experiencing pelvic pain. She sent additional medical 
information to Vitality on 9 December, however, didnt hear anything back. Mr and Mrs M 
called Vitality on 22 December and were told there were backlogs which accounted for the 
delay. During the call, it was agreed Vitality would send a list of suitably qualified consultants 
the same day, but they say that didnt happen. Mr and Mrs M said they had to call again on 9 
January 2023 before the list was sent. 
Mr and Mrs M said the delay in processing their medical information and sending the list of 
consultants meant they had to pay another excess charge because the treatment effectively 
spanned two policy years. They said had Vitality processed their claim sooner, and within 
the service level agreement, then this wouldnt have happened. They also said the gift box 
sent by Vitality wasnt a fair enough way to resolve their complaint. 
Vitality accepted it was unable to assess their claim within the usual timescales, however, 
noted it was only two days out of service. It also accepted the list of consultants was sent 
incorrectly using an old system. It said that despite this, the second excess would most likely 
still have been charged as it was unlikely Mrs M wouldve received treatment prior to the new 
policy year beginning in February 2023. It felt the gift hamper was a fair way to resolve 
things.
Our investigator disagreed with Vitality about the hamper. He accepted Mrs M most likely 
wouldnt have been treated before the new policy year had commenced. But he thought the 
failure to send the consultant list on 22 December and the slight delay in assessing their 
claim warranted £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted his recommendation, but Vitality didnt. It changed its position on 
whether the consultants list was sent on 22 December. It said Mr and Mrs M shouldve 
check their junk box as it was sure itd been sent. It also said the service level agreements 
arent guaranteed and that this may change in peak times. And so, its for me to make a final 
decision on whether £100 compensation is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it for the same reasons explained by our investigator. 
I also think the compensation recommended is fair. Ill explain why. 
The crux of the issue here is whether Vitality sent the list of consultants on 22 December 
2022. Mr M called Vitality because hed not heard back after sending the medical information 
completed by the GP on 9 December. Vitality explained it was experiencing some delays 
and Im satisfied thats the case because this is supported by its case notes. I also saw it 
agreed to send the consultant list after the call. Vitality initially accepted this didnt happen 
because itd attempted to send this information using an incorrect platform. 
Vitality said it sent the gift hamper to acknowledge this and the delays with handling the 
claim. But it changed its position on that point following our investigators opinion and 
explained Mr and Mrs M shouldve checked their junk mail folder as it was most likely there. I 
was surprised Vitality pivoted on that point given its not shared any new evidence to support 
its argument here. Our investigator requested the new evidence itd relied on, however, Ive 
not seen that it shared this with us. And so, without any new evidence to persuasively 
demonstrate the list of consultants was shared, Im more persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms 
testimony and I think it most likely wasnt sent. 
I also note Mr and Mrs M had received other emails from Vitality without any issue and so I 
dont find that argument particularly persuasive as those emails werent filtered by their junk 
mail folder. 
I wanted to acknowledge Vitalitys arguments about the delays handling the claim and I 
agree, in isolation, the time it took to assess the claim wasnt excessive. But I also think 
considered against the experience Ive just explained, a compensatory award is fair in the 
circumstances. And I think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and Vitality Health Limited must 
pay £100 compensation for the overall distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman