DRN-3518287
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about her car insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited in 
respect of a claim from another driver which it settled.
What happened
In 2017 Mrs P, insured by Advantage, let another driver (a relative) use her car. They didnt 
have cover to drive other cars and werent a named driver on Mrs Ps policy. An accident 
between Mrs Ps car (driven by her relative) and another car occurred. Advantage told Mrs P 
it would have to settle for the damage to the other car, along with the injuries of its 
occupants. It told Mrs P this might take three years, but once done it would look to her to 
repay its outlay. That was because she had breached her contract with it by letting her 
uninsured relative drive the car and it was settling the claim for the other car and its 
occupants due to road traffic legislation. Mrs P accepted that.
In 2020 Mrs P received a call from solicitors. They said they were acting on behalf of 
Advantage looking to recover its claim outlay. The solicitors later took proceedings against 
Mrs P to recover the money. 
Mrs P complained as shed become aware that Advantage had written to her regarding its 
outlay and asking her to repay it in 2019  but she hadnt received that letter. She thought 
that if Advantage had just checked it had been received, the involvement of solicitors, and 
the eventual court clam, would not have been needed. Mrs P felt that Advantage, at times, 
had given her poor advice. Mrs P was also dissatisfied with the way the solicitors had 
handled things and some of the decisions that were made regarding the court action. And 
she remained dissatisfied about the costs shed been asked to repay. 
Advantage felt it had done enough by issuing the letter  it hadnt needed to chase Mrs P. 
And it didnt think it had given her poor advice. Regarding the solicitors it said it felt they had 
handled things appropriately. It said its not unusual for costs to change. When Mrs P 
complained to us Advantage said it didnt think we could get involved in anything to do with 
the court claim. Our investigator agreed.
Our investigator explained to Mrs P that we could only look at the customer service elements 
of her complaint. In respect of those she didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. 
Mrs P disagreed. She said there were several things which had happened which had directly 
led to her having to now pay much more to settle matters. She said she had always only 
wanted to resolve things and she didnt think it was fair that Advantages failure to check she 
had received the 2019 letter had led to all of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mrs P, like our 
investigator, Im not upholding this complaint. I realise that Mrs P feels badly let down by 
Advantage, and Ive considered carefully what shes said. But Im not persuaded Advantage 
failed her such that I can reasonably blame it for the position she is now in. Ive set out my 
reasoning below.
I know that in late 2017 Advantage told Mrs P that it would be looking to her to reimburse its 
outlay  but it might be three years before shed hear from it in this respect. It was then 
18 months later when Advantage wrote to Mrs P with its costs, asking for payment. Ideally it 
would have followed up on that letter. But I dont think it had any duty to do so. It had told 
Mrs P it would look to her to pay, it sent her a letter accordingly and had no reason to think 
she wouldnt receive that letter.
Furthermore, it was December 2019 before Advantage instructed solicitors with a view to 
recovering the outlay. That was more than two years since Advantage had spoken to Mrs P 
in 2017, advising it might be as much as three years before they contacted her with a view to 
repaying its outlay. As much as it would have been ideal for Advantage to follow up on the 
2019 letter to Mrs P with a phone call, ideally Mrs P would have thought, as time passed, to 
check in with Advantage. After all she knew it would want her to pay its outlay back. I fully 
appreciate that may seem like a harsh assessment to Mrs P. But Advantage had paid this 
money out due to her breach of contract. I know that she accepts that and has always been 
willing to pay what was owed. But I cant fairly blame Advantage for the recovery escalating 
through court because of not calling her, when she didnt follow up with it either.  
Mrs P had two calls with Advantages claims handler in 2021. She was told the normal 
process, now that court proceedings had bene issued, would be for her to receive paperwork 
from the court. However, she didnt receive any claim notification paperwork. What she got, 
a few weeks later, was a judgment in default. And Mrs P was also told that she should ask 
Advantages solicitors to look to set-aside the default judgment. Whilst she did, that didnt 
happen, and enforcement proceedings were undertaken. I understand that Mrs P is 
frustrated and believes that the advice she received directly led to the costs for her to repay 
increasing. However, Im not persuaded Advantage failed her during these conversations
Ive listened carefully to both calls. I think that in the first call the handler is very straight with 
Mrs P  that she needs to get legal advice. I know Mrs Ps response was that she couldnt 
afford it. Thats unfortunate. But I dont think Advantages call handler misled Mrs P. He was 
clear that legal advice should be sought but then tried to assist her by sharing with her what 
his understanding was of what would likely happen next. His understanding was clearly 
wrong. But it was Mrs Ps choice to rely on that understanding rather than opting to seek 
professional legal advice. 
The need for Mrs P to attain legal advice featured heavily again in the second call. In the 
second call, Mrs P is told she can ask the solicitors to set-aside the judgment which has now 
(at that time) been received. I dont think that was incorrect advice  the fact the solicitors 
didnt act to do so doesnt mean the request couldnt be made. But again, there is an 
emphasis throughout the call on the legal process not being straight-forward and that Mrs P 
would benefit from taking legal advice. 
I know Mrs P found dealing with Advantages solicitors was frustrating. I can see that often 
she wanted the solicitors to answer question about things like the changing costs and I know 
she wasnt happy with the answers she got. But I bear in mind the solicitors were there to get 
Advantages money back, they werent there to assist Mrs P. 
I know Mrs P feels she was issued paperwork with mistakes on it, which prevented her from 
signing it. I can understand why she thought the detail (an address for Advantage) was wrong, and that she wanted detail on anything she was signing to be correct. But Im not 
persuaded that it was reasonable for her to refuse to sign just because of the address. Not in 
light of the warnings shed been given that not having an agreement in place would mean, 
due to legal timeframes, Advantage would have to issue court proceedings. Mrs P was also 
warned that if court proceedings were issued, costs might go up. Im also not convinced the 
address was actually wrong. It is clearly not Advantages business address. But often 
companies will have a different address for service of legal papers. I dont know that is what 
this address is  but I see it is the address of a company which often represents Advantage. 
In any event, the name on the papers was Advantage and Mrs P knew Advantage needed 
her to pay the money back and that a formal signed agreement to do so was needed or court 
proceedings would have to be issued. The fact the solicitors wouldnt answer her concerns 
or amend the paperwork was, I think, a natural and unfortunate result of her now being in 
this legal process. Dealing with solicitors is very different to the interaction a policyholder will 
have with, or can reasonably expect from, their insurer during a claim.
Bearing in mind the nature of the process, I think the solicitors communicated reasonably 
with Mrs P. Both in terms of time of reply and content, including tone.
I can see that this has been a difficult situation for Mrs P to navigate. And I understand the 
regret that she feels that she didnt find out about the recovery amount until 2020, when 
shed been in a better financial position the year before. But Im not persuaded that 
Advantage did anything wrong such that I can reasonably blame it for the position she is now 
in, particularly with the costs she is now liable for equating to more than its claim outlay.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman