DRN-1957433
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Phoenix Life Limited is seeking repayment of a maturity payment it 
made to him in 2018. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr N was contacted by Phoenix Life as a policy that was held by him and his ex-
wife had matured in 2009, and it needed to pay out the maturity value. It had tracked Mr N 
using a tracing agent. 
It sent the forms for Mr N to sign, along with his ex-wife, to claim the proceeds. Mr N signed 
and returned them with just his signature. When Phoenix contacted him about that, he 
explained the divorce proceedings, that he wasnt in contact with his ex-wife but was able to 
give it her name and address details. Because of the divorce Phoenix agreed to pay out 50% 
of the maturity value - totalling £3,022.27 - with the remaining 50% to be paid to the other 
party.
Phoenix then traced Mr Ns ex-wife. She provided a copy of a deed of assignment, to show 
the policy had been wholly assigned to her during divorce proceedings  this had also been 
signed by Mr N. As the assignment showed Mr N wasnt entitled to the proceeds of the 
policy, it asked him to repay the sum. Mr N complained as he had spent the funds on house 
repairs and explained he didnt recall the policy or that it had been assigned. Phoenix didnt 
uphold the complaint as it was satisfied it was entitled to seek repayment of the incorrectly 
paid funds. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. Although she was satisfied Phoenix was 
entitled to seek repayment of the maturity pay out, she thought Phoenix could have avoided 
this issue by tracing Mr Ns ex-wife before any payments had been made. Because it didnt it 
had caused Mr N distress and inconvenience which she thought it ought to pay £100 
compensation. She also thought it should come to a mutually acceptable repayment 
arrangement for the maturity proceeds.  
Phoenix accepted the investigators outcome, but Mr N didnt. He has asked for a final 
decision but hasnt provided any further arguments for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept why Mr N may now find himself in a difficult position financially, particularly as he 
spent the maturity proceeds on carrying out house repairs. What I need to consider is 
whether its fair and reasonable for Phoenix to ask for the return of the funds.  
Mr N has said he doesnt recall the policy or assigning it to his ex-wife. I accept he may not 
have recalled the policy until he was contacted by Phoenix about it. But I find it surprising 
that he didnt subsequently also recall this was assigned to her.  Nevertheless, there is no 
dispute that Mr N isnt entitled to any proceeds from the policy. 
Mr N has explained he spent the money on house repairs. In some situations, if a person 
spent money they had a reasonable belief they were entitled to, it might not be fair to ask for 
it to be repaid. This might be where someone has changed their financial position as a 
result, or spent the money on something intangible, such as a holiday. But I dont think that 
applies here. Mr N made some repairs to his home, and I think it fair to assume these were 
repairs Mr N would have needed to pay for at some point. So I dont think he has changed 
his financial position such that I would find it fair for him to keep the proceeds. 
I therefore dont find it unfair or unreasonable for Phoenix to request repayment of these 
proceeds. However, I do recognise this might cause Mr N financial difficulties, particularly 
given the current situation. Im pleased to see that Phoenix has already agreed to come to a 
mutually acceptable repayment plan so that Mr N doesnt have to repay the proceeds in one 
go. 
Like the investigator, I dont think this has been handled well. Phoenix could have avoided 
this situation by tracing Mr Ns ex-wife before agreeing to pay out any proceeds. Whilst it 
might not have known whether this policy had been assigned, it would have known this is 
quite common where joint policyholders part ways. And it knew this following Mr N informing 
it of the divorce. I therefore find Mr N has been put to some inconvenience as a result of this 
which he should be fairly compensated for. I find £100 to be a fair reflection of the trouble  
Mr N has been put to.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mr N £100 for the inconvenience this matter has put him to. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Phoenix Life 
Limited to redress Mr N as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman