DRN-2904131
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car supplied by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance BPF) under a conditional sale agreement, was not of satisfactory 
quality.
Ms H is represented by her daughter, to keep things simple, Ill just refer to Ms H. 
What happened
In February 2018 Ms H financed a car with BPF under a conditional sale agreement for her 
daughters use. The car was four years old and had travelled 64,591 miles. The cash price 
was £29,810.27 (including fuel and insurances), Ms H paid £10,000 deposit and the 
repayments were £415.83 a month payable over 60 months. 
Within two months Ms H noticed the car was under performing, so she had it serviced. Ms H 
is unhappy the car required servicing so early, as according to the service history, the next 
service was not due until January 2019. 
Ms H received a recall notice from the car manufacturer in January 2019 to check the 
exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) cooler, for leakage. Ms Hs car was inspected in August 
2019, no EGR cooler fault was found.  
In November 2019 the car broke down and was recovered to her local garage. The diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) was cleaned but the garage also noted damage to the twin turbo, the 
manifold and swirl flap. Ms H says the garage told her the breakdown was due to the faulty 
EGR cooler, which caused the damage to the other parts of the engine (although it refused 
to confirm this in writing). The engine has been stripped back and the car has not been in 
use since. 
Unable to resolve her concerns with the dealership, Ms H complained to BPF in March 2020. 
She received a follow up recall notice from the manufacturer in April 2021, to replace the 
EGR cooler. Ms H says this confirms there was an inherent fault with the car at the point it 
was supplied to her. Ms H also said the dealership misrepresented the car as not having any 
bodywork carried out as a result of an accident, but this was untrue.
BPF did not uphold Ms Hs complaint, it said if the fault had occurred within the first six 
months, it would assume the fault was present at the point of supply. But as Ms Hs car had 
failed after 20 months, the law puts the onus on her to demonstrate the current faults were 
developing or present when the car was supplied to her. BPF invited Ms H to obtain an 
independent report, she has not been able to get one. 
Ms H remained unhappy, so brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
think there was enough evidence to show a fault was developing or present at the point of 
supply. Ms H provided a diagnostic report listing numerous faults and photos of her engine in 
June 2021, in the same month she also booked her car in to a garage to complete the recall 
job. The garage noted the EGR cooler didnt appear to be faulty but could not carry out the 
recall as the engine was dismantled. 
Our investigator considered the new information provided by Ms H, but did not feel it 
changed anything.
Ms H asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and make a final decision. 
In October 2021 we contacted Ms Hs local garage who looked at her car in November 2019. 
They were unable to confirm the cause of the breakdown, due to the passage of time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has made extensive representations and provided a lot of information. Ive read and 
considered the whole file (including the recent information she sent us), but Ill concentrate 
my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Ms H has referred to how the dealership has handled her concerns and made comments 
about two previous cars purchased from it. As Ms H got a car on finance with BPF our 
service can look at complaints against it. We are unable to consider her concerns about the 
dealerships actions and for clarification this decision relates only to her concerns raised 
about the car acquired under a conditional sale agreement with BPF in February 2018. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
BPFs final response
Ms H says BPF delayed sending her its final response to her complaint made on 3 March 
2020. As the investigator outlined BPF sent its final response letter to the email address it 
held on 22 April 2020. Whilst I appreciate BPF usually corresponded with Ms H by post and 
Ms H did not regularly check her emails; Many businesses had to revert to corresponding 
with their customers by email where they held email addresses, due to limited staff being in 
the office because of the national COVID-19 lockdown. So, I dont think BPF made a mistake 
here. 
misrepresentation 
Ms H says the car was misrepresented to her as the salesperson gave written confirmation 
the car hadnt received any body work as a result of an accident. However, she has since 
received an invoice confirming the car had a total of £1469.73 bodywork repairs completed 
prior to supply. Ms H says she would not have got the car, if shed been made aware about 
the car being involved in an accident.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 makes finance providers (BPF) responsible for 
misrepresentations made by the credit broker (the dealership) during negotiations. To make 
a finding of misrepresentation I would need to be satisfied that the dealership made a false 
statement of fact and the statement was the key factor in Ms H deciding to get the car.
The documentation provided at the point of supply states;the car has not been involved in an accident requiring a body panel or similar component 
being replaced or repaired or a material bodywork repair being required.
Ive looked at the invoice which confirms bodywork was completed. But I have not seen any 
evidence to confirm the car was in an accident. And I dont think it would be unreasonable 
for a four-year-old car with fairly high mileage, to have suffered some wear or tear or require 
some repair to damage, perhaps to dents, scuffs and chips, without the car having been in 
an accident. 
It isnt uncommon for a dealership to carry out bodywork prior to sale to improve a cars 
saleability. So, Im not persuaded the statement made in the paperwork was untrue. In any 
event I dont think the statement was the key factor in Ms H deciding to buy the car, and its 
clear from her correspondence that her main concern is the quality of the car. So, Im not 
satisfied the car was mis-sold to her. 
quality of the car
Because BPF supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. In order to uphold Ms Hs complaint, I would need to be satisfied the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply for an example, due to an inherent defect rather 
than general wear and tear. 
Ms H believes there is an inherent manufacturers defect with the EGR cooler, which is the 
cause of the current engine damage. She says the manufacturers recall notices support 
this. In order to reach a decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, 
on the balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. 
The car was four years old and had travelled 64,591 miles when it was supplied to Ms H. I 
would not therefore expect the car to be in the same condition as it was when it was first 
manufactured. And I think its reasonable to expect to have to repair or replace some parts 
on higher mileage, older cars.
Ms H says that within two months of supply the car was underperforming. She took the car 
to a garage who said it needed servicing and told her AdBlue had sprayed all over the 
engine, due to the AdBlue pipes cap being cracked. The service history indicated the next 
service was due in January 2019, Ms H thinks the need for the early service, after only 
driving just under 4,000 miles indicates there was a problem at the point of supply.
Ive looked at the service invoice dated in April 2018, other than the routine oil and filter 
changes youd expect to see, there is nothing to indicate any fault was found or that the 
AdBlue cap was replaced. Ms H has told us she bought the cap and the garage replaced it. 
And whilst I accept this, I dont think a cracked AdBlue cap on its own is evidence the car 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, given the age and mileage of the car, 
its reasonable to expect some parts may need repair or replacement due to wear and tear. I 
appreciate Ms H serviced the car earlier than the service history indicated, but Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this was due to an inherent fault. 
Ms H received a manufacturers recall notice to check the EGR cooler for leaks in January 
2019, she serviced her car again in July 2019, there is no evidence any faults were found. 
Ms Hs car was booked in for the recall in August 2019, no EGR cooler fault was found. In November 2019 the car broke down. The recovery company said the breakdown was 
caused by the DPF filter being blocked. And I can see from an invoice dated 6 November 
that Ms Hs garage cleaned the DPF. The mileage was recorded as 95,498 which means Ms 
H covered nearly 31,000 miles before the car broke down. Ms H managed to drive another 
37 miles before the car was returned to the garage a week later, who found damage to the 
swirl flaps, inlet manifold, twin turbo and a cracked DPF pipe. Ms H says the garage advised 
the engine damage was a result of a faulty EGR cooler but refused to put this in writing. 
Ive seen an email dated 5 December 2019 to Ms Hs local garage from a specialist turbo 
company who examined Ms Hs twin turbo, it states it has suffered a major failure due to 
insufficient oil supply. The rotor on the smaller unit has snapped and the larger unit is very 
worn. All oil galleries (and oil pipes) are completely restricted with carbon build up. There is 
no reference to the damage being linked to an EGR cooler issue or anything to indicate the 
damage was due to a fault developing or present at the time of supply. But the engineer 
indicates the turbo failure is due to carbon build up and notes part of the unit as being worn 
or having snapped.
In April 2021 Ms H received a second manufacturers notice recalling her car to replace the 
EGR cooler. Ms H says this shows the EGR cooler was faulty and this caused the engine 
damage. I can see from the notice that the replacement was being offered as a 
precautionary measure, so I dont think this confirms the EGR cooler was faulty. 
Ms H provided several photos of engine parts and a diagnostic report listing numerous fault 
codes dated 23 June 2021. The report shows the cars recent condition, some three years 
after it was supplied, but gives no commentary regarding the cause of the faults or whether 
the faults would have been present or developing at the point of supply. And I think its likely 
the extensive list of fault codes may be a result of the engine being dismantled.
On 29 June 2021 Ms Hs car was booked in for the EGR cooler replacement recall. In an 
email dated from the workshop its noted the EGR cooler visually appeared fine. The 
workshop was unable to carry out any further diagnostics or replace the EGR cooler whilst 
the engine remained stripped. 
We contacted Ms Hs local garage in October 2021, it said it was unable to confirm the 
cause of the engine damage found in November 2019, due to the passage of time.
 
The problem in this case is there simply isnt enough evidence to show Ms Hs car was not 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Whilst Ms H first experienced the car 
underperforming within two months of getting the car, this appeared to resolve itself after a 
service. By the time the car broke down in November 2019, Ms H had the car for 20 months 
and had nearly covered 31,000 miles. In addition, there is nothing from any of the number of 
people who inspected the car to evidence the engine damage is linked to a problem with the 
EGR cooler or any other fault that was either developing or present at the point of supply.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. Noting the age and mileage at the point of supply and the 
mileage Ms H was able to cover before the breakdown. I do not find I have enough to say 
the car wasnt sufficiently durable.
As I understand it Ms Hs warranty would only cover the cost of the manifold repair. Ms H 
says the remaining cost of repair will be around £12,000. I sympathise with the position Ms H 
finds herself in but Im not persuaded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to her. So, I wont be instructing BPF to cancel her finance agreement, accept her 
rejection of the car nor refund any repayments. I appreciate Ms H will be unhappy with my decision. However, she is not bound by it. If she does not wish to accept my decision, her 
legal rights to proceed to court remains intact.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman