DRN-3630511
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in March 2007 and Gold Service 
Account (GSA) in July 2007 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this account are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here again. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that Lloyds failed to provide him with enough information about the SA and GSA 
and as a result the car breakdown service failed him. He also says the SA and GSA were 
unsuitable for him.
Lloyds says that it recommended the SA and GSA to Mr B and provided him with enough 
information about the products to make an informed decision about them. Lloyds says the 
sale of the GSA is outside the jurisdiction of this service.
Another ombudsman has issued a decision to both parties saying that the GSA sale is out of 
this services jurisdiction so I cant look at any aspect of that sale.
The two car breakdown incidents that Mr B refers to both happened after the sale of the 
GSA and relate to that sale. So, Im not able to look at those events.
But I can consider whether the SA was mis-sold and having done so, Ive concluded that its 
more likely than not that it wasnt.
I say this for the following reasons.
The SA was sold during a phone discussion and I wasnt there, so I cant know what was 
said. I can only look at the evidence available today and the testimony of both parties.
Both parties agree that Mr B had previously had a fee free account, so he knew these were 
available. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to take 
out the SA and he chose to do so based on the advice and recommendation Lloyds gave 
him.
The SA cost £7 a month in 2007 and its benefits included AA breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance, sentinel card protection, a £50 interest free overdraft, and various home, 
car, and travel discounts.
Mr B tells us that at the time he had a car and a mobile phone, so he could have used two of 
the main benefits. And I cant see anything about his circumstances that would have stopped 
him using others.
Lloyds say that it provided him with a welcome pack, and it appears he was aware of and 
pleased with the product because he went on to upgrade to a more expensive account six 
months later.
So, I think its more likely than not the SA was suitable for Mr B and that he had enough 
information to make an informed decision about it.
And while I know Mr B will be disappointed, it follows that I think its more likely than not that 
Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in the SA sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman