DRN-3147186
The complaint
 Mr P complains PayrNet Limited blocked his Pockit account and havent released money 
held in the account back to him. He also complains that Pockit hasnt returned money he 
transferred into the account back to him despite Pockit agreeing to do so.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by PayrNet Limited.
What happened
 Mr P had a Pockit account.
  
In February 2021, Mr P attempted to transfer just over £5,300 into his Pockit account from 
another account he held with a different bank which hed closed. Pockit told Mr P that due to 
limits on his account it wasnt able to accept the transfer. So, it returned the money back to 
the sending bank. However, due to the sending account being closed, the funds bounced 
back to Pockit. 
Mr P contacted Pockit to find out what was happening with the money. Pockit told Mr P not 
to worry as the money was safe in its holding account. And asked Mr P to provide a copy of 
his bank statement so that its payment provider, R, could transfer the money to Mr P, which 
Mr P provided. Pockit responded and said it couldnt give Mr P a time frame for when R 
would return his funds.
Following this Pockit decided to review Mr Ps account. As part of the review Pockit asked 
Mr P to provide proof of his identification, address and information about how he used his 
account, which Mr P provided. 
Over the following months, Mr P sent several emails to Pockit to try and get access to the 
funds in his account. And get the money hed tried to pay into his account in February 2021 
returned to him. In April 2021, Pockit asked Mr P to provide proof of his identity and address. 
And information about how he was using his account.
Mr P told Pockit that hed already provided the information it had requested. But sent them to 
Pockit again on 8 April 2021. Pockit told Mr P that his account was still under review and it 
couldnt provide him with a response timeframe. In July 2021, Pockit wrote to Mr P and told 
him it was closing his account and returning his account balance back to the original source. 
Mr P complained to Pockit. It said it hadnt done anything wrong and had reviewed Mr Ps 
account in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. 
Mr P complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult to 
make ends meet and pay his rent. He said hed been trying to find out what was happening 
with his account for months and wasnt getting any answers from Pockit about what it had 
done with the money hed tried to pay into his account in February 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. And asked Pockit for some more 
information. Pockit told the investigator that in order to get his funds Mr P needed to provide 
a bank statement for a valid account held in his name. And once this has been received the 
funds would be returned. The investigator said Pockit hadnt done things in a timely manner 
and treated Mr P fairly. So, she said Pockit should return Mr Ps funds with interest and pay 
him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset the delays had caused. The investigator 
asked Mr P to provide a copy of his bank statement so she could forward this to Pockit to 
speed up the release of his funds. 
Mr P agreed and provided his bank statement, which the investigator forwarded to Pockit. 
Pockit didnt respond to what the investigator had said. And to date Mr P is still waiting for 
his funds to be returned. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pockit has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. And it must take certain actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That 
sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while 
they carry out a review.
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, including how Mr P was operating his 
account, Im satisfied that they were complying with these obligations when they blocked 
Mr Ps account and asked him for information. The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account 
also permit Pockit to block an account and Im satisfied Pockit acted in line with them. So, I 
cant say Pockit did anything wrong when it decided to review Mr Ps account. 
Once it had completed its review, Pockit sent the remaining balance of Mr Ps account back 
to source. This ensures the funds are sent back to the correct person. I agree that this was 
the right action in the circumstances.
However, while Pockit are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Pockit initially blocked Mr Ps account in March 
2021.  I can see that Pockit asked Mr P to provide it with information in April 2021, however, 
his account remained blocked with no further contact until July 2021, when Pockit wrote to 
Mr P to let him know it had decided to close his account. Mr P is also still waiting for Pockit 
to return just over £5,000 to him  despite telling Mr P it was in the process of doing so on 26 
February 2021. So Im satisfied that there were unnecessary delays.  
Pockit hasnt offered much in the way of an explanation for why its review of Mr Ps account 
took nearly six months to complete. It has provided a timeline of administrative actions that it 
took, but from looking at this I cant see Pockit were doing very much to move things along 
between March and July 2021. Ive also not seen any evidence which suggests Pockit had 
any concerns regarding the money Mr P attempted to transfer into his account in February 
2021. And that Mr P isnt entitled to these funds. I note too that Pockit has agreed to return 
the funds to Mr P. 
I can understand why Pockit requested Mr P to provide a bank statement relating to the 
account he wants the money paid into. The investigator shared this document with Pockit in 
October 2021. But, Mr P is still waiting for his money to be returned. Having looked at all the 
the evidence, I think Pockit should have done more to obtain what it needed from Mr P so that it could return the funds to him sooner. Afterall, Mr P had responded to Pockits requests 
for information promptly when his account was being reviewed, which included providing 
Pockit details of the sending bank account, his address and identification. So, I think if Pockit 
had asked Mr P to provide a banks statement its likely he would have done so. 
I can see that Mr P sent several emails to Pockit over a number of months chasing the 
release of the money. He made Pockit aware that he was struggling financially, and his 
mental health was suffering. And its clear from his emails that Mr P was upset. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest Pockit reached out to him or acknowledged he maybe in a 
vulnerable position.  So, overall,  Im not satisfied that Pockit has treated Mr P fairly and 
reasonably. Because of this, I think Pockit should pay Mr P £100 compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset caused to him. And if it hasnt already done so Pockit should return the 
£5,353.27 along with interest for loss of use of this money
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. To put things right PayrNet Limited 
should:
Pay Mr P £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review and return Mr Ps funds
Refund Mr P £5,353.27 along with 8% interest simple per year from 26 February 
2021 until the date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman