DRN-2671337
The complaint
Mr H complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited wrongly advised him to take out a
Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy.  
What happened
In 1998 Standard Life advised Mr H to take out an FSAVC policy. Mr H considers the advice 
was unsuitable, because Standard Life failed to properly point out the potential benefits of
investing in his employers in-house AVC scheme.
Mr Hs intended retirement age of 60 meant he wouldve completed 36 years service in his
employers scheme. So Mr H considered he wouldve been better advised to buy added
years in his employers scheme.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that
Standard Life had done enough to comply with the regulatory requirements for FSAVC sales
when the sale took place.
She noted that the FSAVC meeting and sale took place on the same day. And even though
his employers in-house AVC scheme was mentioned to Mr H during the meeting, the
investigator didnt think Standard Life had given Mr H an adequate opportunity to consider
his options before proceeding with the FSAVC.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that if Mr H had been properly advised, he wouldve
bought added years in his employers scheme. She thought it was likely Mr Hs decisions
were driven by cost, and added years wouldve been the more expensive option. So she
considered Mr H wouldve decided to invest in his employers in-house money purchase
AVC scheme if hed been properly advised.
The investigator said Standard Life should compensate Mr H in line with the regulators
FSAVC review guidance.  
Standard Life didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It considered it had given Mr H
enough information about the FSAVC to make him aware of the differences between that
policy and his employers AVC scheme.
It also pointed out that the policy didnt come into effect until some time after the meeting
with its adviser had taken place. So it considered Mr H had sufficient time to make further
enquiries about his employers AVC scheme, had he wanted to do so.
Standard Life asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision for the complaint on 8 February 2021. I said Id provisionally decided to 
uphold the complaint, but that my suggested redress was different to the redress suggested 
by the investigator. Ive set out my provisional findings below:
Standard Lifes adviser was tied, which meant he could only recommend Standard 
Life products to Mr H. But the adviser still had to comply with regulatory guidance for 
the sale of FSAVCs. The guidance at the time required the adviser to:
- Draw Mr H's attention to the in-house alternative AVC scheme.
- Discuss the generic differences between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC
scheme.
- Direct Mr H to his employer or his occupational pension scheme for more
information on the in-house option.
I accepted that Standard Lifes recommendation letter included some reference to Mr 
Hs employers AVC scheme. It said:
I have discussed in-house additional voluntary contributions with you and you are 
aware that these may be more cost effective due to a preferential costing structure. 
You are aware that, where possible, some employers will offer to match a scheme 
members contributions. I have advised you that more information on the in-house 
option can be obtained from your employer or the Pension Scheme trustees.
Id thought very carefully about this wording, and the extent to which it met the 
regulatory guidance mentioned above. My view was that Standard Lifes information 
about likely costs in the in-house AVC scheme wasnt clear enough. I thought it 
wouldve been reasonable for Standard Life to point out that the AVC scheme was 
likely to be more cost effective for Mr H.
I also thought it couldve provided a clearer direction to Mr H to obtain more 
information from his employer or the pension scheme about the costs and benefits of 
the in-house AVC schemes available to him. I considered that wouldve been 
important information for Mr H to have, before he could make a decision about 
whether to proceed with the FSAVC.
On balance I thought it was likely that if Mr H had been properly advised, he wouldve 
concluded that his employers AVC scheme was more cost effective than the 
FSAVC.
With that in mind, Id also considered whether Mr H wouldve been better advised to 
consider buying added years in his employers scheme. Mr H was 38 years old and 
had been in his job for 14 years. Given the nature of his profession, I didnt think it 
was unreasonable to consider he was likely to remain within that profession until his 
expected retirement date. 
On that basis he wouldve completed 36 years in his employers scheme. So he 
couldve added up to four years additional service before he reached the maximum 
amount for calculating benefits.
Mr H was single and didnt have any dependants. He contributed 7% of his net 
income to the FSAVC. My understanding was that a contribution of 6% net income 
couldve earned Mr H an extra years service in his employers scheme. On balance, 
I thought it was likely that an extra years service in his employers scheme wouldve 
produced more valuable benefits than those achieved in the FSAVC, or his 
employers AVC scheme.For that reason, I considered Standard Life should compensate Mr H on the basis 
that if hed been properly advised, its likely he wouldve bought added years in his 
employers scheme, and achieved an additional years service in that scheme.
Mr Hs representative responded on his behalf. It said it agreed with my provisional findings, 
but made some comments about payment of redress. Notably, it wanted me to be aware that 
Mr H had accessed the benefits of his FSAVC policy in 2015.
Standard Life responded to say that it didnt agree with my provisional findings. It said, in 
summary, that it remained of the view that it had met the regulatory requirements for FSAVC 
sales.
Standard Life also pointed out that Mr H had taken his FSAVC benefits in 2015. It said he 
wouldnt have been able to do this if hed been advised to invest in his employers AVC 
scheme. It also considered this reflected Mr Hs initial plans to fund an early retirement.
Standard Life didnt consider the affordability aspect of Mr Hs retirement planning had been 
properly considered. It said his contributions to the FSAVC were at the limit of what he could 
afford, so it didnt consider he wouldve been able to comfortably make contributions to his 
employers scheme on an added years basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive noted everything Standard Life has said in response to my provisional findings. Its 
quoted guidance from this service, which reflects regulatory guidance, for the sale of 
FSAVCs. The guidance says a financial business should have explained that AVCs were 
likely to provide better value for money.  
As I said in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that Standard Life made this clear 
enough to Mr H. It told him that his employers AVC scheme may be more cost effective, 
but it didnt say that it was likely to be so. 
I also remain of the view that Standard Life shouldve given Mr H a clearer direction to get 
more information from his employer or the pension scheme about the costs and benefits of 
the in-house AVC schemes available to him.
I accept that an FSAVC may have been attractive to Mr H in terms of the potential flexibility 
around his retirement benefits. But at the time he was taking advice, he was over twenty 
years away from his intended retirement date. So I think the potential flexibility had to be 
balanced against the advantages of buying added years  especially when he would have 
had the scope to do so and improve his retirement benefits in a guaranteed way. Taking 
account of Mr Hs overall circumstances at the time, and that he wold most likely have been 
thinking about retirement at the normal scheme age, on balance I think the clear advantages 
of buying added years wouldve been central to Mr Hs decision making. 
Overall, I still think that if Mr H has been properly advised by Standard Life, its unlikely he 
wouldve taken out the FSAVC.Standard Life doesnt consider it wouldve been the affordable for Mr H to invest in his 
employers scheme on an added years basis. As I said in my provisional decision, Mr H was 
contributing 7% of his net income to the FSAVC. And my understanding remains that this 
would have enabled Mr H to buy at least one added year in his particular employers scheme 
 at an actual cost of 6%. I note that Standard Life hasnt provided specific evidence that my 
understanding is incorrect.
So it seems that if Mr H had made contributions to his employers scheme on a guaranteed 
added years basis, he couldve paid less than he paid towards the non-guaranteed benefits 
of the FSAVC policy.
As such, this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the case and I still think Mr 
H should be compensated on an added years basis.
Both parties have pointed out that Mr H took his benefits from the FSAVC in 2015. An added 
years calculation should be able to account for this. But clearly any compensation due to Mr 
H cannot now be paid to that policy. As I said in my provisional decision, in those 
circumstances compensation should be paid directly to Mr H, with a notional allowance 
made for income tax which would otherwise have been payable on the benefits. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Standard Life Assurance Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
The FCA has announced it intends this month to update the inflation assumptions used in 
this guidance. This could materially affect the amount of compensation due. Standard Life 
Assurance Limited must therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators 
Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision, using the most recent 
financial assumptions at that date. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision. If this is completed before publication of the 
FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, Standard Life Assurance Limited must re-run 
the calculation within a month of the amended guidance being published  ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly made up to Mr H. Standard Life 
Assurance Limited need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Standard Life Assurance Limited does not subsequently need 
to recalculate following any further amendments the regulator might later make.
Alternatively, Standard Life Assurance Limited may wait until publication of the FCAs 
amended Finalised Guidance (expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the 
compensation due to Mr H in this case.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as Mr Hs FSAVC policy no longer exists the 
compensation should be paid directly to him. It should be paid as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the 
loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the later of the 
date Standard Life Assurance Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision, or, if it chooses to wait until the final guidance is published, the date of that 
publication.
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of that 90 day 
period, that it takes Standard Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr H.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Standard Life Assurance Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr H in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman