DRN-4221612
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt release the charge on their buy to 
let mortgage when they redeemed it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays and asked Barclays on 21 November 
2022 for a redemption figure. They paid off this figure the following day and understood that 
Barclays would remove its charge on the property at the Land Registry. Mr and Mrs G 
contacted their solicitor who told them the charge was still in place. Barclays told them on 6 
December that there remained a small surplus on the account and that the charge wouldnt 
be released until that sum was refunded. Barclays then processed this and released the 
charge on 13 December 2022. 
Barclays accepted that the bank caused delays with the closure of the mortgage and offered 
£200 in compensation. Our investigator said that the offer from Barclays was fair and didnt 
recommend any further compensation. Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that 
Barclays lied to them about sending a letter of 22 November and a call on 28 December and 
not getting a closing statement from Barclays prevented them submitting a tax return. Mr and 
Mrs G emphasize that compensation is not the reason they brought this complaint but want 
Barclays held accountable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This seems a slightly unusual transaction. As I understand it this property was being sold 
and although being sold through a solicitor, the solicitor didnt request the redemption figure, 
but Mr and Mrs G requested the redemption figure and redeemed it before completion. 
Normally solicitors request a redemption figure well in advance of completion, but Mr and 
Mrs G asked and got one the day before they redeemed the mortgage. There was some 
delay in releasing the charge and some inefficiencies in Barclays managing out the closure 
of the account. Barclays refer to a letter sent on 22 November which it hasnt subsequently 
produced, and a closing statement being forwarded although Mr and Mrs G didnt receive it. 
Mr and Mrs G say that Barclays said that it phoned them on 28 December but have no 
record of the call. Ive seen Barclays records which say that on 28 December 2022 at 
14.04.19 that a call was made to customers home. If Mr and Mrs G didnt get the call it may 
be that the call went to the wrong number. 
I know Mr and Mrs G arent interested in compensation, but it is a matter I should look at. 
Were not Barclays regulator so I cant penalise Barclays. But my role is to come to a 
decision on a complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. In deciding on compensation, I 
have to consider the impact on Mr and Mrs G. The big picture here is that the mortgage was 
redeemed within a reasonable period but not as swiftly as Mr and Mrs G expected and not 
without some intervention by them. There are certain formalities to follow redemption, and 
these didnt operate as smoothly as they should have done. But Barclays redeemed the 
charge within a reasonable period. No major obstacles were put in Mr and Mrs Gs way. 
Barclays seems to have referred to a letter, which Ive seen no evidence of, that may have 
quickened the release of the charge, but that charge was removed within a reasonable 
period anyway. 
Barclays seems to have tried to make a call to Mr and Mrs G on 28 December but didnt get 
through for an unknown reason but that does not appear to have had a significant impact on 
the progress of the complaint as they spoke with Mr and Mrs G on 6 January 2023. There 
appears to have been a delay in producing the closing statement but again that should not 
have had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs G as they were aware that the charge had been 
released by the end of December. Mr and Mrs G mention that it affected their ability to make 
a tax return but Ive no evidence of the delay in submitting the return costing them money. 
But clearly Mr and Mrs G were put to some unnecessary trouble to get it sorted. After 
considering the matter at length I believe that £200 seems a fair figure for Mr and Mrs Gs 
distress with how these issues were dealt with by Barclays.
 
Putting things right
Barclays UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs G £200
My final decision
Barclays UK PLC has offered to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs G of £200 which I 
consider is a fair outcome to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman