DRN-1519116
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr T. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001 to cover a store credit account. Mr T 
was sold the PPI by phone, some time after the account was started.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr T has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why. 
AXAs records say that the PPI was sold by phone some time after the account started, and I 
think thats likely to be right. 
From what we do know about how AXA usually sold PPI by phone at that time, I think its 
representative would have been told to make clear it was optional and to get the customers 
consent before adding it to the account. 
Mr T has said he was sold the PPI by a pushy salesperson. There is no recording available 
of the call  which isnt surprising as this happened about 19 years ago. And the problem I 
have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the 
adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the 
possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly motivated by making a 
sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having. The closer it gets to making 
someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable 
it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say AXA 
did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Ts 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr T to decide whether it was suitable.However AXA did need to give Mr T clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know how 
much detail the adviser actually gave on the phone. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mr Ts circumstances at the time, even 
if hed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its likely to have made a 
difference to whether he took. I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid 
out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to 
any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Mr T has mentioned an income protection policy he had, although hes not now in a position 
to give details of that. But from what he has said, it sounds likely it was a different type of 
insurance product and probably only provided enough to cover his mortgage and possibly 
some other essential living cost. Also its not clear he had many other alternative means to 
pay his living expenses and credit account for long, if he lost his income; and even if he did, 
he could have kept that in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to 
have seemed potentially useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman