DRN-4266202
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy.
LV is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of its agents. As LV has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in my 
decision, any reference to LV includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr D made an escape of water claim under his home insurance policy with LV 
after a burst pipe in his loft caused damage to his property.
LV appointed loss adjusters who visited Mr Ds property. LV declined Mr Ds claim, referring 
to a condition of the policy which required him to let it know if his home was unoccupied for 
more than 60 days in a row.
Mr D raised a complaint with LV, but it maintained its position. So, Mr D asked our service to 
consider the matter. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that LV had 
acted fairly and in line with the policys terms and conditions in declining Mr Ds claim.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he didnt consider that LV had acted 
fairly because he was in regular attendance to the property to check for any issues, given his 
extenuating circumstances. He also made reference to legislation he felt was relevant to his 
complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
In declining Mr Ds claim LV has referred to a condition of the policy that required him to let it 
know if he left his home unoccupied for more than 60 days in a row.
The policys terms and conditions define unoccupied as not lived in by you or your family, 
for more than 60 days in a row, or doesnt have enough furniture or services for normal living 
purposes. 
By lived in we mean stayed in and slept overnight for at least 2 nights in a row each week.
LVs policy document states that cover is provided for water or oil leaking from any fixed 
tank, domestic appliance or pipe. But there is an exclusion for loss or damage after your 
home has been unoccupied for more than 60 days in a row (unless your personal details 
show weve agreed to this cover).
The report from LVs loss adjuster says Mr D told them he hadnt been residing at the 
address for some time prior to the event, whilst hed been refurbishing the address and had 
been living with his mother. He said hed regularly been checking on his property.
Mr D has confirmed that the property was unoccupied, but he doesnt think its fair for LV to 
decline his claim because he attended his property once or twice a week to collect his mail 
and do some small jobs as part of his propertys refurbishment. 
Its up to an insurer to decide what risk its willing to cover and exclude. Its not unusual for 
an insurer to exclude or restrict cover for escape of water if a property is unoccupied as this 
is event is more likely to occur when a property isnt being lived in. 
Mr D says the plumbers who attended his property after the incident told him the leak was 
caused by frozen pipes that had burst.
Following Mr Ds claim, I can see that LV has placed an unoccupancy condition on his 
policy which says it will provide cover as long as:
All locks and alarms are kept in good working order and used at all times
The water is turned off at the mains and the water system drained OR
The central heating is used to maintain a constant minimum temperature of 10 C 
throughout the property and
The pipes in the loft space are lagged 
So, I dont think Mr Ds visits to the property were sufficient to reduce the risk of his property 
being damaged by an escape of water whilst it was unoccupied. And I dont think it was 
unfair for LV to have declined Mr Ds claim for the reasons it did.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr D, but Im satisfied LV has acted fairly 
and reasonably in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman