DRN-3693701
The complaint
Ms J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) gave her incorrect information 
about her pension. She said this caused her a financial loss.
Ms J is represented in her complaint. But Ill only reference her in my decision.
What happened
Ms J has a pension policy with Aviva. This includes a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) which 
could be taken at any time from age 60, but would have to be taken no later than age 75. 
Aviva wrote to Ms J on a number of occasions prior to her 75th birthday to tell her that she 
needed to take action on her pension before her 75th birthday. This included its 20 
November 2015 letter sent to Ms J care of her Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) around 
six months before her 70th birthday.  
Ms Js IFA wrote to Aviva on 11 April 2016 to tell it that she didnt require an annuity at this 
stage. And to wait for further instruction.
Aviva wrote to Ms J again on 8 December 2020 about her retirement plans. It said that the 
retirement date on her plan was her 75th birthday, which was only a few months away. 
Aviva wrote to Ms Js IFA on 7 March 2021 about Ms Js retirement options. This letter 
included the following section:
What if I don't make a choice by my 75th birthday?
You can't continue this plan with Aviva beyond the age of 75. If you don't want to take the 
benefits on or before your 75th birthday, you'll have to move your money into another plan or 
product, either with Aviva or another provider.
Because of this it's really important you speak to us before your 75th birthday.
It said if it didnt hear from Ms J by her 75th birthday, it would use her fund to buy an annuity.  
Aviva wrote to Ms J on 30 March 2021 care of her IFA to remind her that she needed to 
make a decision about her retirement soon. 
Ms Js recollection is that shed called sometime in March 2021 to ask Aviva whether 
anything would change at the age of 75. And therefore whether she needed to do anything 
before then. She said that Aviva explained that the law had changed relatively recently. And 
that nothing material would change at age of 75. But Ive no details of a call between Ms J 
and Aviva in March 2021. 
On 19 April 2021, a few weeks before her 75th birthday, Ms J called Aviva to ask about her 
pension options. She said she explained that she had a pension with another provider that 
she might wish to transfer into Aviva. And that she might want to make additional one-off 
payments to her Aviva policy. 
Ms J said that the call handler from Aviva went through various options. And said that any 
single premium paid, or any transfer in, would attract the GAR. She said Aviva also told her 
that as long as the process had started before it, Ms J wouldnt need to complete the transfer 
process before her 75th birthday.
Ms J said that Aviva told her nothing would change on her 75th birthday, except that her 
pension would move to a low-risk investment. She said that Aviva couldnt tell her what the 
GAR was. And that it took her until July 2021 to find out. So she said she wasnt able to 
calculate whether it was worth transferring into Aviva until then. And that by this point, shed 
gone past her 75th birthday.
On 21 April 2021, Ms J emailed Aviva to ask it to provide quotes for two separate annuity 
options  one non-increasing and one increasing at 2.5% each year. Aviva replied the next 
day. It asked Ms J to complete and return a Personal Information Form, which included 
questions about her health and lifestyle. 
Avivas call records show that Ms J called it on 12 May 2021 as she needed help with the 
Pension Information Form. And that she spoke to it again on 14 July 2021 as she hadnt 
received the quote Aviva had issued and wanted it to be emailed to her. They also show that 
Ms J called Aviva on 19 July 2021 to ask it to send projections as soon as possible. And that 
she called it on 30 Jul 2021, during which it confirmed the GAR at age 75. And also that she 
could transfer in. The note recorded that Ms J would call Aviva back about that. 
On 15 July 2021, Aviva wrote to Ms J again. It thanked her for her request for another quote. 
In the first page of the pack it stated:
The option to remain in this plan beyond 75 is not available. 
The pack also included the following sentence later on:
Did you know? Aviva will accept retirement funds from other companies. Adding retirement 
funds together will normally give you a better income when you retire, so it's worth 
considering.
And also included forms for Ms J to complete depending on whether she wanted to go with 
one of the two options presented with Aviva or to take an Open Market Option. 
On 5 August 2021, after her 75th birthday, Ms J called Aviva more than once. In her first call, 
she asked what she would need to do to get her pension from another provider transferred 
into her pension with Aviva. The call handler told her shed need to contact the ceding 
provider and that they would send the paperwork to initiate the transfer. Ms J also asked if a 
single premium could be made. Aviva told her that as shed reached age 75, no further 
contributions could be made into her pension. Ms J felt this wasnt consistent with what 
Aviva had told Ms J in April.
In another call on 5 August 2021, Aviva told Ms J that not only could they not accept a single 
premium, but they also couldnt accept a transfer in. This was because Ms J had already 
reached age 75. The call handler apologised for the incorrect information Ms J had been 
given earlier.
Ms J called Aviva again on 10 August 2021. Aviva told her that she couldnt pay a single 
premium or transfer into her policy after age 75. Ms J again told Aviva this wasnt what shed 
been told in April 2021. So she complained to Aviva. She felt that the incorrect information 
shed been given in April 2021 had led to a substantial financial loss. Aviva wrote to Ms J on 19 August 2021 to confirm that once a policy reaches age 75, it 
couldnt accept any further payments.
Unhappy, Ms J brought her complaint to this service on 19 August 2021. She said she 
wanted Aviva to be required to uphold the information it had provided her with in April 2021  
that is that she could make transfers in and additional payments after her 75th birthday. And 
that she would be entitled to the GAR on the new money. She estimated how much not 
being able to do this had cost her. And asked this service to require Aviva to either honour 
what it had told her, or pay her the amount shed lost. 
On 25 August 2021 Aviva called Ms J to tell her they were waiting for her completed 
retirement paperwork. Ms J told them she was waiting for a response to her complaint. 
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 6 September 2021. They apologised for 
the incorrect information theyd given Ms J about her ability to pay single premiums and to 
transfer in her other pension after shed reached age 75. They said they shouldve told Ms J 
that they needed the funds paid to Aviva before her 75th birthday. And that any new funds 
wouldnt attract the GAR as new premiums and transfer ins hadnt attracted GAR since 31 
December 1997. To apologise for the inconvenience their error had caused, Aviva offered 
Ms J £300 compensation. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt 
consider that Avivas error had caused Ms J financial detriment. And he felt that the £300 
Aviva had offered for the trouble and upset theyd caused was reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
Ms J didnt agree with our investigator. She felt she wasnt in the position she wouldve been 
but for the Avivas error. She wanted Aviva to either make a policy exception and allow her 
to pay both a premium and a transfer into her pension and to benefit from the GAR, or to pay 
her the cash value of the financial loss she felt shed suffered because of the error. 
Ms J provided a summary of what she felt shouldve happened. She asked this service to 
review the summary and to explain in detail if we didnt agree with it. Ms J said that shed 
deferred her retirement for 15 years from the first available date specifically to build 
additional assets to support her later years. She felt that Avivas error had put her in a 
materially worse financial position. And that she should be put back into the position she 
wouldve been in but for Avivas error.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Ms J. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
As our investigator noted, when a business has made an error, this service aims to put the 
customer back into the position he or she wouldve been in if the error hadnt occurred. But 
customers arent entitled to benefit from a businesss error. This service can also award 
compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused by a businesss error based on the 
impact this has had on a customer. But we cant fine or punish a business.
While its not in dispute that Aviva made an error, what is in dispute is whether or not that error caused Ms J a financial loss. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Avivas 
error did directly lead to a financial loss. I acknowledge that Ms J doesnt agree. Ill explain 
why Ive come to this conclusion. 
While I acknowledge that Ms J said that she first contacted Aviva sometime in March 2021 to 
find out what her options were for her pension, the first evidence Ive seen of contact with 
Aviva on the issue in question is from 19 April 2021. This was only a few working days 
before her 75th birthday.
Aviva has been unable to provide this service with a copy of this call. But I understand that 
during the call, Ms J felt that Aviva said that any single premium or transfer into the policy 
would attract the GAR. And that it also said that as long as the process had started, Ms J 
wouldnt have to complete the process before her 75th birthday
It wasnt until a call with Aviva on 5 August 2021, when Aviva told Ms J that as shed 
reached age 75, no further contributions could be made into her pension, that this error was 
corrected.
Aviva has provided copies of retirement packs it has sent to Ms J over the years. I consider 
that these all clearly stated that Ms J couldnt continue the plan with Aviva after age 75. But 
the 15 July 2021 pack also incorrectly included a statement that Aviva would accept 
transfers in. This wasnt the case as Ms J was over age 75.
Ive considered what most likely wouldve happened if Aviva had given Ms J the correct 
information on 19 April 2021. That is, if it had told her that if she wanted to transfer in any 
other pensions, or make any additional contributions, shed have to do so before her 75th 
birthday. And that she wouldnt be able to benefit from the GAR on any additional monies 
paid or transferred into the policy. 
At the time Aviva made the error, there were only a few working days until her 75th birthday. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded that the transfer in Ms J was considering wouldve been 
possible given the time available. To be clear, even if Aviva had told Ms J that a transfer in 
would be possible if completed by her 75th birthday, Im satisfied that her other provider 
wouldnt be able to complete the transfer in time for it to reach Aviva by the deadline. 
However, if Aviva had correctly informed Ms J that the GAR wasnt applicable to new 
contributions or transfers in, Im also not persuaded she wouldve wanted to transfer in her 
other pension, or pay further premiums at this point. I say this because there would be no 
obvious advantage of doing this. 
Ms Js summary of what she felt shouldve happened doesnt note that the GAR wasnt 
payable on new contributions or transfers in. As I noted earlier, customers arent entitled to 
benefit from a businesss error. And I cant reasonably say that just because she was told 
that the GAR would apply to new money during the April 2019 call that Aviva should be 
required to honour that mistake. 
I do acknowledge the frustration Avivas error mustve caused Ms J. And I agree that it 
shouldnt have made the mistakes it did. But Im satisfied that the error didnt cause her a 
financial loss. I dont consider that Ms J wouldve ended up in a different position to the one 
shes in now if shed been given the correct information on 19 April 2021. I say this because 
Im satisfied that if she had been given the correct information on 19 April 2021, Im not 
persuaded that she wouldve tried to transfer in her other pension before her 75th birthday, or 
paid in additional contributions. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the compensation Aviva offered Ms J for the distress and inconvenience its errors caused her was fair. 
In its final response letter, Aviva said it shouldve explained that any new funds wouldnt 
attract the GAR. It said that new premiums or transfer ins hadnt attracted GAR since 31 
December 1997. It offered Ms J £300 compensation for the inconvenience it had caused. 
Distress and inconvenience
From the file notes Ive seen, it appears that Aviva quoted Ms J a figure for the GAR on 30 
July 2021, although its unclear whether Ms J was informed about this before then, or if this 
was the first time she was told the applicable rate. Once Ms J knew the GAR, she wouldve 
been in a position to decide whether or not it would be beneficial to transfer in her other 
pension to Aviva, given she felt that transfer would be eligible for the GAR. 
From the evidence, Aviva corrected its error on 5 August 2021. Therefore, it appears that 
there were only a few days where Ms J felt that she would benefit from a transfer in, and 
finding out that it wouldnt be possible.
I can also see that the 15 July 2021 retirement pack incorrectly contained information  
given Ms J was already over 75 at this point  stating that Aviva would accept transfers in. I 
also note that Ms J had to wait for the GAR to be confirmed. And that there was a period of 
three and a half months, between 19 April 2021 and 5 August 2021, when she thought she 
might be able to benefit from the GAR further if she either transferred in her other pension or 
made additional contributions. 
Ive carefully considered the information Aviva provided. And the errors it made. While Im 
satisfied that it had made it clear in its written communications with Ms J than she couldnt 
continue with the plan after age 75, Aviva did make an error in its 15 July 2021 retirement 
pack when it said it would accept transfers in. It also gave Ms J incorrect information during 
phone calls on 19 April 2021, 30 July 2021, and 5 August 2021. 
From what Ive seen, there was around a week before the error was corrected where Ms J, 
having received the GAR information she needed at the end of July 2021, felt she could 
benefit by transferring in her other pension to Aviva. And there were just over three months 
where Ms J felt this could be a possibility. So I consider Aviva caused Ms J a loss in 
expectation over that period.
Overall, I consider that the £300 Aviva offered Ms J for the inconvenience caused her is 
reasonable for the loss in expectation Ms J suffered. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Ms J hasnt lost out financially due to 
Avivas errors. And that Aviva has taken reasonable steps to put things right. And I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman