DRN-3618249
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that hes been asked to contribute towards consultant and hospital fees 
after making a claim on his private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA PPP 
healthcare Limited.
What happened
Mr S had the benefit of a Health For You branded private medical insurance policy (the 
policy). In the summer of 2021, Mr S was experiencing chest pain. After visiting his GP, he 
contacted AXA for a referral to a consultant on its approved consultant list. He was given the 
details of two consultants at a particular hospital.
Mr S booked an appointment with a different consultant at the same hospital. AXA says that 
consultant wasnt an approved specialist, so it only covered 60% of the consultants fee.
AXA then authorised Mr S to see another consultant at a different hospital. That fee was 
covered in full. However, the consultant referred Mr S for two scans. AXA covered one fee in 
full and paid 60% of the other. Thats because it says one of the scans took place at a 
hospital that wasnt on the approved hospital list. 
Unhappy, Mr S raised complaints to AXA about both issues. Thats because he was required 
to pay 40% of the outstanding balance for the initial consultants fee and one of the scans. 
AXA didnt uphold his concerns. So, he referred a complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to look at everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. It should also conduct its 
business with due care, skill and diligence. And must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. Mr S is clearly unhappy about being asked to contribute 
towards the costs of his treatment. However, I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably by 
asking him to do this. Ill explain why.
The membership handbook  setting out the policy terms  provides at page 3 that if: 
you have treatment at a hospital or day-patient unit thats not on the hospital list, we 
will only pay 60% of the charges from that hospital or day-patient unitYou will be 
responsible for paying the remaining charges.
your treatment is provided by a specialist who is not a Health For You specialist but 
who is recognized by AXAwe will only pay 60% of the charges that would normally 
be paid by AXA. You will be responsible for paying the remaining charges.
It goes on to say: 
We strongly recommend that you call usbefore you arrange a consultation or 
treatment so that we can check that youre covered.
Similar terms can be found at pages 16 to 18 of the membership handbook under the 
headings: paying the specialists and practitioners that treat you  cover for all and paying 
the places where youre treated  cover for all.
Page 18 of the membership handbook also says that CT, MRI or PET scans received as an 
out-patient will be paid in full at a scanning centre listed in the hospital list, which is defined 
under the policy as: the list of hospitals, day-patient units and scanning centres that are 
available for you to use under the terms of your policy. The list changes from time to time, so 
you should always check with us before arranging treatment. Some treatments are only 
available in certain facilities. The hospital list is on our website
Mr Ss membership guide for the policy year 2021/2022 also sets out:
at page 6 what isnt covered under the policy and that includes: full cost of treatment 
in hospitals that arent on our hospital list and by specialists that arent recognised 
Health For You specialists.
at page 7, that theres cover for out-patient, CT, MRI PET scans which are paid for in 
full when carried out at a scanning centre within the hospital list. 
At page 9 (under the heading: can I use a different hospital?): wed always 
recommend that you use a Health For You specialist at one of the hospitals on our 
hospital listif you choose to use any other hospital or specialist, well only 
contribute part of the cost. Youll then need to pay the remaining amount yourself. 
This could be a significant amount of money
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the initial consultant Mr S saw in the summer of 
2021 isnt on AXAs approved list. Im also satisfied that the hospital at which one of the 
scans took place also wasnt on the hospital list. So, under the terms of the policy, Im 
satisfied that AXA was only responsible for 60% of the amounts charged for those two 
things. And that Mr S was responsible for the remaining 40%. 
Ive also thought about whether that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in this particular 
case. And I think it does. 
Ive listened to the first call Mr S had with AXAs representative, when initially authorising a 
consultants appointment, any diagnostic tests needed and any follow up appointment. Mr S 
was given the details of two consultants at a hospital near to where he lived. He was also 
given the number of the hospital so that he can make the necessary appointment. 
Hes also told at the end of the call that not all consultants and facilities are covered under 
the policy so he should keep AXA updated of the names of the treatment providers during 
the period of his claim to avoid any shortfalls he may become liable for. And that if any point 
hes going to see someone different or go anywhere else (for treatment), he should let AXA 
know. Hed be covered as long as he saw one of the two consultants theyd discussed 
during the call. Mr S said he understood.
Mr S accepts that he didnt see one of the two consultants he was given details of during the 
call. He made an appointment with another consultant at the same hospital. As it transpired, 
that consultant wasnt recognised as a Health For You specialist. Based on the terms of the 
policy  which was in line with what Mr S was told during the first call, he shouldve contacted AXA to check whether the consultant was recognised  and whether that the 
consultation fee would be covered in full. He didnt do this. 
Mr S says that when he contacted the hospital he was told that one of the consultants 
mentioned by AXA had retired. However, thats different to what he initially said during the 
second call he had with AXA. He said that AXAs representative had recommended this 
consultant to him during the first call. But Im satisfied thats not the case. 
Further, even if he was told by the hospital that one of the consultants had retired, Mr S had 
been given the name of two consultants during the first call. From what he has said during 
calls Ive listened to between him and various representatives of AXA, when he was told by 
the hospital that one of the consultants had retired, he asked who had replaced them and he 
was given the name of the consultant he ultimately made the appointment with. However, he 
didnt enquire about the availability of the other consultant whose details were given to him 
by AXA during his initial enquiry.
So, all in all, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to depart from the terms of the 
policy and ask AXA to meet the initial consultants fee in full. Particularly, as Im satisfied that 
during first call he had with AXA Mr S was told  and he said he understood - that if he was 
to see someone else outside of the two names he was given, he should let AXA know. 
Im also satisfied that during a call between AXAs representative and Mr S  when 
authorising him to see a different consultant at a different hospital  he was told that the 
consultation and hospital fees would be covered so long as that consultant and that hospital 
were used. Mr S says he was referred by that consultant for two tests; one which did take 
place at the hospital mentioned during that call  and was paid in full by AXA.  He was 
referred by the consultant to another hospital for the other scan. And that hospital isnt on the 
hospital list. 
Based on the calls he had with AXA, Im satisfied that Mr S reasonably ought to have been 
aware that if he was referred to a different medical facility, he should contact AXA to see if 
this was covered. He didnt do this. I can understand why he relied on the consultants 
referral to another hospital for the scan. But I dont think that means AXA has acted unfairly 
by not covering the cost of that scan in full. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman