DRN-3377053
The complaint
Mrs M complains PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) unfairly applied end of contract charges 
when her car finance agreement came to an end. 
What happened
In February 2017, Mrs M entered into a 37 month personal contract purchase (PCP) 
agreement for a new car. As part of the agreement, she also purchased tyre and GAP 
(guaranteed asset protection) insurance policies at £608. For that, she was required to pay 
£9.28 a month followed by a final payment of £344.
The agreement was due to end in March 2020 and Mrs M wanted to return the car. It was 
due to be collected on 10 April 2020 however due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was 
cancelled. It was eventually collected on 20 April 2020 and later inspected on 14 May 2020. 
Damage was found to the car and a number of documents were missing. Therefore PSA 
said Mrs M needed to pay £1,106. They also said she needed to pay the final payment for 
the insurance policies. Mrs M disputed these costs and how the situation had been handled 
overall. She raised a number of complaints, in summary she said:
- She had been mis-sold the insurance policies;
- There was a delay in collecting the car;
- When collected, the agent only took the logbook and refused to take the other 
documents despite having them in her possession. She tried to send these 
documents to PSA afterwards but they wouldnt allow her to;
- The damage to the car wasnt present when it was collected therefore it must have 
been caused afterwards;
- She received a number of arrears notices via email and text messages and she was 
worried how this was impacting her credit file and ability to obtain credit;
- This situation has caused her stress and upset.
PSA responded to the complaints and said: 
- The agreement set out the costs for the insurance policies and it was clear a final 
payment would be due.
- There was a delay in collecting the car due to Covid-19. As the car wasnt returned 
the final instalment became payable. This meant the account fell into arrears and 
correspondence was automatically generated. They would remove any adverse 
information from her credit file. 
- Following the inspection of the car, they had fairly applied the charges. But they 
agreed to remove the charge for the valet (£50). They couldnt accept any 
documentation relating to the car thereafter as it went to auction immediately.
- To resolve the complaints and as a gesture of goodwill, they would reduce the 
charges for the missing services, literature pack and service book by 25% from £650 
to £487. This meant £893 for the damages and missing documents plus £344 for the 
insurance, meaning a total balance of £1,238 to pay. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was partially upheld. They said there was insufficient evidence to 
say the insurance policies were mis-sold and it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs M to have 
left the documents in the car if the agent didnt take it. They said the damage charges for the 
rear bumper, deflated tyre and puncture repair kit should be removed but everything else 
was charged fairly. They said PSA had already removed adverse information from the credit 
file so there was nothing further to do and lastly PSA should pay £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M disagreed and maintained her position as summarised above.
Since the investigators opinion, PSA has agreed to remove the charges for the bumper, 
deflated tyre and puncture repair kit.
In February 2021, I issued my provisional decision partially upholding the complaint. I said:
The sale of the insurance
Mrs M said the insurance policies (GAP and tyre) were mis-sold because she wasnt aware 
she could buy them elsewhere, it was expensive and she didnt know there was a final 
payment.  
Ive carefully considered her comments. I note Mrs M accepts she was told the policies were 
optional but she felt the salesperson pressured her into getting them, in her words it was a 
hard sell. Based on what shes said, it would appear she felt the need to get the policies to 
provide cover in the event of any shortfall should it be stolen or written off, which is the 
purpose of GAP insurance. Overall, Im satisfied Mrs M knew the policies were optional and 
Im not persuaded she was pressured or forced to buy the policies but rather she felt it was 
beneficial to do so. I also dont find it was the dealerships duty to let her know she could buy 
the policies cheaper elsewhere. 
I can understand why Mrs M may think its unusual to have a final payment for the insurance 
policies but having reviewed the agreement, I find the costs were set out in a clear and fair 
manner including the final payment.  Therefore I cant say PSA is acting unfairly by asking 
for this payment given Mrs M had the benefit of the insurance. Although I appreciate she 
may not have had to claim under the insurance policies. Given Mrs M signed this agreement 
in 2017, Im satisfied she was aware of the same so I cant say PSA has done anything 
wrong in this regard. 
Collection of the car
On 23 Mach 2020, the UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. This had a significant impact on financial businesses such as PSA including 
reduced staff and delays in their operations. PSA said the initial collection of the car on 10 
April 2020 was cancelled due to the pandemic but I can see it was later collected on 20 April 
2020. Given these wider circumstances and the fact the car was collected ten days later 
than the original date, I dont believe the delay was unreasonable.
End of contract charges
The terms of the agreement said if the car is returned, PSA can charge for damage if 
applicable. In such cases, one of the things our service takes into account is the guidance 
published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is industry 
guidance which sets out what is considered fair wear and tear when new cars are returned at the end of agreements. In this case, the car was new when supplied so Ive considered 
this guidance. 
PSA has charged the following:
No. Item Comments Charge
1 Literature pack Missing £25
2 Service history Three missing £600 (£200 each)
3 Service book Missing £25
4 C post Scratched £40
5 Compressor Missing £140
6 Puncture repair kit Deployed £49.70
7 Left front wheel Scuffed £16
8 Rear bumper Scuffed £75
9 Rear wheel Deflated £86
Missing documentation 
 
The BVLRA guidance says the car must have been serviced in line with the manufacturers 
schedule and the service book should be stamped to evidence this. It also says the cars 
documentation should be returned including the manual, service booklet, logbook, etc.
The inspection report said the literature pack, service history and service book were missing. 
Mrs M said she was in possession of the same at the time of collection and shes provided a 
picture of an invoice for a service that was completed in June 2018. This picture is date 
stamped 20 April 2020 which is the day the car was collected. On one hand she said the 
collection agent only took the logbook and refused to take the rest. On the other hand she 
said she didnt want to leave the documents in the car due to contamination concerns 
relating to the pandemic. She also mentioned she was shielding due to the pandemic and 
her husband dealt with the collection. I can appreciate why Mrs M may have been concerned 
about the social distancing requirements and physically providing the documents to the 
agent but if that was the case, I believe it wouldve been reasonable to have left it in the car. 
It also doesnt explain why the logbook was provided but the other documentation wasnt.
When asked about proof of the other documents such as the two other services, literature 
pack and service book, Mrs M said they were underneath the service invoice as seen in the 
picture. However I dont find this to be sufficient evidence to persuade me that they were 
indeed in her possession at the time of collection. Additionally having reviewed PSAs 
contact notes, I can see she contacted them in February 2020, several weeks before the 
initial collection, to find out whether PSA would reduce the charge for a missed service 
because she wasnt sure if they had all been done. This strengthens my belief that Mrs M 
didnt have evidence of a full service history, I find she only had proof of one. 
Im also not convinced the collection agent only wanted the logbook. I say this because on 
the collection sheet it indicates the services were missing which to my mind shows the agent 
was aware it was needed but it wasnt supplied. 
Mrs M said she contacted PSA immediately after the collection to complain the agent hadnt 
taken the documents. However I dont see evidence of this in PSAs contact notes. The 
earliest I can see she contacted PSA specifically about the documents was around June 
2020. This was approximately two months after the car was collected and after PSA said she 
needed to pay for the missing documents. 
Even though Im satisfied Mrs M had evidence of one service, PSA has said they couldnt 
accept documentation after the car was collected because the car was sent to auction 
immediately. I think its reasonable to say a car would generally fetch a lower price without a full service history which is why such documentation is required to be provided at collection. 
As this didnt happen nor is there sufficient evidence Mrs M provided the one service invoice 
to PSA immediately afterwards, I believe they were entitled to charge for the missing 
services and other documents. As a gesture of goodwill, PSA has agreed to reduce the 
charges for the missing documents by 25% so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. 
Damages
The investigator didnt believe the damage charges were fairly applied for the rear bumper, 
deflated tyre and puncture repair kit and he set out the reasons as to why in his opinion. 
Having reviewed the photos in the inspection report, I agree with what he said so I wont 
repeat it again. I understand PSA has already agreed to remove these charges.
In terms of the other items:
Compressor  this car part is reported as missing. However the inspection report doesnt 
provide any image of this, such as the area where it should be located to demonstrate it 
wasnt present. In my opinion theres insufficient evidence for me to safely say it was missing 
therefore I dont find PSA are entitled to charge for this. 
C post  the inspection reports said there is a scratch. The BVRLA guidelines say Surface
scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable
provided they can be polished out. Having looked at the photograph and the measuring tool 
next to the scratch, its clear it exceeds 25mm so I think PSA can fairly charge for it.
Left front wheel - the BVRLA guidelines say, scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference 
of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. Having looked at the picture, I believe 
the scuff marks exceed 50mm therefore I think PSA are entitled to charge for it.
Generally when a car is collected, I would expect any visible damage to be noted on the 
collection report which is usually signed by the consumer. In this case, the collection report 
doesnt indicate any damage and Mrs M said this showed there was none present meaning 
the damage was caused afterwards. Its unfortunate this normal practice wasnt followed and 
the car wasnt inspected for damage at collection, its unclear whether there was a change in 
process due to Covid restrictions. However on balance, I think its more likely the collection 
agent simply didnt check the car for damage rather than there being none present. Given 
the extent and nature of the damage, the fact the car was in Mrs Ms possession for over 
three years and the mileage was the same at collection as it was at the time of inspection, 
Im satisfied the damage was likely caused while it was in her care.
Mrs M has commented about the amount charged for each item as she feels its expensive. 
PSA said this is the cost charged by the manufacturer and in my opinion I believe the 
charges are fair. I also note in February 2020, prior to the initial collection, PSA made Mrs M 
aware of the costs for individual items should they be damaged of missing. I believe they 
provided sufficient notice for her to arrange her own repairs before the car was returned if 
she chose to do so therefore I cant say they acted unfairly. 
Arrears communication
PSA said as the car wasnt initially collected, the return process wasnt complete which 
meant the final payment of £4,710 became payable. As this wasnt paid, arrears 
communications were automatically generated and sent to Mrs M. Having seen the number 
of emails and text messages, I can understand why Mrs M wouldve been worried about this 
especially as the delays in collecting the car were beyond her control and she was disputing 
the end of contract charges. I also acknowledge her concerns about the likely impact on her 
credit file.Having read PSAs contact notes, Im satisfied they explained the reason for this to Mrs M 
and confirmed they would remove any adverse information from her credit file. Their system 
notes show they did this on 16 May 2020. As there is insufficient evidence to suggest Mrs M 
applied for credit and it was denied as a result of such information, I cant say PSA has 
caused a financial detriment. 
Discrimination 
Mrs M said she believes she was discriminated against due to her name. She said when she 
contacted the agents about the collection, they said PSA had told them that she could 
provide the missing documents. However in her communication to PSA, she was told she 
couldnt do this. 
Im sorry to hear Mrs M feels she had been treated differently and I understand why she 
feels this way given the conflicting information she had received. However based on the 
evidence, I dont believe PSA has discriminated against her because of her name. Im 
satisfied the application of end of contract charges and the requirement to provide missing 
documents applied to all consumers who return their cars. PSA are responsible for 
determining what should be charged, not their agents so while I note what the agents said, 
its for PSA to decide. Its unfortunate conflicting information was given and I can understand 
why Mrs M wasnt happy about this but I dont believe this was due to her name. I hope that 
it helps Mrs M to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into her 
concerns.
Summary
Overall, Im not satisfied PSA fairly applied all of the damage charges. The charges for the 
bumper, puncture kit, deflated tyre and compressor should be removed. For all the others, I 
believe PSA are entitled to charge for them. There is insufficient evidence the insurance 
policies were mis-sold therefore as per the agreement, its fair for PSA to require the final 
amount of £344 is paid. 
Mrs M has explained how this situation has caused her upset and worry especially with the 
ongoing communication about the arrears, adverse information reporting on her credit file 
and the amount of time she spent communicating with PSA to get this matter resolved. She 
has strongly disputed the charges and for the reasons above, I agree she was right about 
some of them. Given the circumstances, I believe PSA should also pay £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.
I suggest Mrs M contacts PSA to discuss a suitable way to pay the outstanding balance. In 
the event she is struggling financially, I would like to remind PSA of the expectation that she 
is treated with forbearance and due consideration. Once the outstanding balance has been 
paid, I believe its fair for PSA to remove any adverse information from April 2020 onwards 
and mark the agreement as being settled. 
Response to the provisional decision
PSA provided no further comments. Ms M responded with a number of points disagreeing 
with the overall findings. I wont outline them in full but they include:
- On the day of collection, she had possession of documents relating to two services 
and the other documents which the agent refused to take;
- She tried to speak to PSA immediately thereafter but she had difficulty contacting 
them due to the pandemic;
- The demand letters from PSA caused trouble and upset;- The adverse information on her credit file impacted her ability to obtain credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms M for her detailed response which Ive carefully considered. However having 
done so, I dont believe she has raised anything new that I havent already considered or 
addressed. As previously mentioned, I wont comment on everything only on the points I 
consider to be key in reaching a fair outcome. 
I would like to stress despite our requests of evidence of the missing documents, Ms M has 
only provided evidence of one car service (June 2018). The other document relates to a 
MOT (January 2020). Additionally, in the event the one service and the other documents 
were in Ms Ms possession at the time of collection, I believe it wouldve been reasonable for 
her to have contacted PSA immediately after the collection if the agent refused to take it but 
there is no evidence she done so based on PSAs contact notes. However I note she did 
speak to them regarding other matters about the account and raised complaints. On that 
basis I believe PSA are entitled to charge for the missed documents and theyve decided to 
do so at a reduced rate so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. For all of the other points that 
Ms M has raised that I consider to be central to the complaint, I have already addressed 
them in my provisional decision so I wont repeat them again. 
I know Ms M feels strongly about this matter but as I havent been provided with any new 
information or evidence to change my decision, I still consider my findings to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as 
set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right, PSA Finance UK Limited must:
- Remove the damage charges for the rear bumper, deflated tyre, puncture repair kit 
and compressor;
- Upon payment of the outstanding balance, remove any adverse information about 
this agreement from April 2020 onwards and to mark the agreement as being settled. 
- Pay £100 compensation to Mrs M for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman