DRN-3980816
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined a claim he made on 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was travelling abroad when he became unwell. He sought medical treatment at a 
medical centre and claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
The claim was declined because Admiral said that an exclusion in the policy, related to 
alcohol consumption, applied. They relied on a medical report which said that the diagnosis 
was alcohol abuse with intoxication. 
Mr S strongly disputes this diagnosis. He contacted the medical centre and they wrote a 
letter in response. They said, in summary, that they agreed the term alcohol abuse was a bit 
extreme but said the final diagnosis was hypertension and alcohol use. 
Mr S also contacted his credit card provider and raised a successful claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (known as a section 75 claim). Mr S also obtained an 
independent medical report commenting on the original medical evidence. Despite this 
evidence Admiral remains of the view that they were, and are, correct to decline Mr Ss 
claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral to maintain their decision to decline the claim, based 
on the available evidence. 
Mr S asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he said that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service had been made an accomplice to medical fraud. He also 
highlighted the outcome of his section 75 claim, his own testimony that alcohol was never 
mentioned by the medical staff treating him and the second opinion hed obtained on his 
return to the UK. 
Mr S subsequently provided more information about the outcome of the section 75 claim. 
The investigator said this didnt change his thoughts on the outcome of the complaint. So, I 
need to make a decision. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Admiral has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
We will not pay any claim which is in any way caused by or resulting from 
You: 
Suffering any illness or injury due to alcohol consumption
Drinking too much alcohol or alcohol abuse where it is reasonably 
foreseeable that such consumption could result in an impairment of your 
physical ability and/or judgement resulting in a claim 
Suffering from alcohol dependence or resulting directly or indirectly from the 
symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. 
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about this matter. He believes the medical centre 
concerned has committed a form of medical fraud. His concern, in summary, is that Admiral, 
and now the Financial Ombudsman Service, is endorsing that fraudulent behaviour. 
For the reasons Ill explain, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to reject the claim, 
despite the further information Mr S has provided. I say that because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to rely on the medical evidence from the 
treating hospital. Theres no persuasive or compelling evidence demonstrating 
medical centre acted fraudulently. I havent found Mr Ss testimony to be supported 
by any specific or credible evidence of fraudulent behaviour. When Mr S raised 
concerns about the information in the medical report the hospital reviewed this and 
modified the diagnosis, following a review of Mr Ss file. Taking all of the above into 
account Im not persuaded that its most likely Mr S has been the victim of a form of 
medical fraud. If Mr S has ongoing concerns about the medical centres conduct, he 
may wish to refer his concerns to any relevant regulator or government body which 
oversees their conduct. 
The medical centre modified the language they used about the diagnosis and 
Admiral has reviewed that information. But the final diagnosis was: 
1. Hypertension, secondary unspecified [I15.9]
2. Alcohol use, unspecified with unspecified alcohol-induced disorder 
[F10.99]. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to rely on the exclusion Ive outlined 
above as the medical evidence suggests that its most likely alcohol use contributed 
to the symptoms Mr S experienced.   
Ive taken into account Mr Ss independent medical report, but I dont think its 
unreasonable that its not changed Admirals view of the evidence. It also doesnt 
change my view of the outcome of this complaint because I dont think its 
unreasonable to place less weight on this piece of medical evidence than the 
evidence from the treating facility. The report is dated 13 October 2022, which is a 
few months after Mr S was treated at the hospital. It was based on four documents 
provided by Mr S and on Mr Ss own reporting of the circumstances leading to his 
admission. I also note this report makes no mention of, or comment upon, the 
updated diagnosis letter which is dated 17 August 2022. 
Mr S has made a successful section 75 claim. But it doesnt mean his insurer was 
wrong to decline the claim or should accept any conclusions Mr Ss bank reached as 
part of their investigation. Admiral is entitled to assess the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. Whilst the bank is entitled to take a view of the evidence it 
doesnt automatically follow that Admiral should reach the same conclusion. So, the 
further document Mr S has provided from his bank about his s75 claim, doesnt 
change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. In any event, Mr S 
also wouldnt be able to recover this amount from his insurer, if hes recovered his 
financial losses elsewhere.  
Mr S says that the Financial Ombudsman Service is endorsing fraudulent behaviour. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service does not endorse fraud or fraudulent behaviour. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to 
conclude theres evidence of fraudulent behaviour or that Admiral has acted 
unreasonably when assessing the claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman