DRN-3477687
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not prevent him from 
falling victim to a scam and will not refund the money hes lost.
Whats happened?
Mr A received a telephone call from a company Ill refer to as (M). M said it could recover 
the money hed previously lost to investment scams for a fee. Mr A paid M £2,610.50 on      
9 January 2018 and £3,180.50 on 6 February 2018  both payments were made via online 
banking. But M didnt pay any recovered money into his bank account as promised.
Mr A realised hed been scammed by M and reported the matter to NatWest on                  
21 February 2018. NatWest contacted the beneficiary banks on the same day, but no funds 
were returned, and the bank has declined to reimburse Mr A because it says he willingly 
made the payments to M.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint about NatWest. Mr A wasnt happy with this 
outcome, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr A authorised the payments to M. So, even though he was the 
victim of a scam, the payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. 
NatWest had an obligation to follow Mr As payment instructions, and Mr A is presumed 
liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
There are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before processing 
a payment, or, in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm. Ive reviewed Mr As bank account 
statements in the months leading up to the relevant scam and I dont think the two payments  
he made to M were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to his normal activity that they 
ought to have alerted NatWest that he may be at risk of financial harm. I can see that the 
payments to M were the highest value payments Mr A had made for a while, but they were 
still relatively modest, and he tended to make the occasional higher value payment at the 
time. Overall, I dont think the payments to M were high-value, or out of character in 
comparison to Mr As normal account activity, and Im not satisfied that NatWest acted 
unreasonably in processing the payments without making further enquiries.
Ive seen evidence that NatWest contacted the beneficiary banks promptly after Mr A 
reported the scam to it. But unfortunately, no funds have been returned.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr A has been the victim of another scam, and I appreciate that 
he feels NatWest shouldve done more to protect and assist him. But I cant hold NatWest 
responsible for him having fallen victim to a scam. Mr A authorised the payments to M and 
Im not satisfied that NatWest ought reasonably to have intervened. I think NatWest did all it 
could reasonably be expected to do to help Mr A try to recoup his money once it knew what 
had happened.
In all of the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable of me to require 
NatWest to reimburse Mr As loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman