DRN-4011425
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him three credit card accounts that were 
unaffordable.  
What happened
Mr H took out three credit cards between 1999 and 2004. The cards were closed between 
2004 and 2014. In 2021, he complained to Barclays that they shouldnt have agreed to give 
him the cards, because he couldnt afford to repay them. 
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint. They said Mr H had made his complaint too late
So Mr H referred his complaint to our service. After considering the circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint, we decided we could consider his complaint. 
An Investigator then considered the merits of Mr Hs complaint. She said, in summary, she 
didnt think Barclays had made a mistake in agreeing the lending for the credit cards.
 
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said he still felt Barclays shouldnt have 
agreed to provide the credit card accounts to him and should refund interest and charges. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
Ive set out my provisional findings again below and they form part of this decision. 
Provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Barclays had an obligation, when lending, to do so responsibly. Generally, this means they 
needed to conduct proportionate checks to ensure Mr H could afford to repay what he was 
borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Barclays dont have any information at all about the applications for all three cards. That isnt 
surprising given the time thats now passed. Mr H also couldnt provide specific information 
about his income and expenditure, except to say that he had very little spare money at the 
time and had a low credit score. So Ive had to base my decision on the limited information 
we do have and what I think is more likely than not in all the circumstances. 
Barclays have told us that they wouldve assessed the information Mr H had given them on 
his application and compared this against previous credit applications or Mr Hs current 
account to validate his income. And they would also have checked his credit file to see how 
he was managing his finances in general. Overall, I find  on balance  Barclays carried out 
appropriate checks to assess Mr Hs ability to repay the credit cards. So I dont think 
Barclays made a mistake when the cards were first taken out. 
Although theres limited available information, I do have some statements for one of the 
accounts  which was opened in 2003. The statements I have only go as far back as May 
2004. So I cant see how the balance was used in the first instance but I can see a 
significant proportion of Mr Hs later use of the card was for gambling transactions. At the 
time, there were no restrictions on the use of credit cards for gambling transactions. 
The statements show Mr H regularly exceeded his credit limit, made payments late and had 
his account suspended for large periods of time because it was in arrears and usually also 
over its credit limit. It also appears based on the statements; Barclays temporarily prevented 
Mr H from withdrawing cash on his credit card in 2006 because of the way he was managing 
his account. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs statements for this account, I think its clear Barclays should 
reasonably have been aware, that Mr H was having trouble managing his account. And I 
think these steps, suspending his account and removing the option to withdraw cash, were 
appropriate to limit the opportunity for Mr Hs balance to increase significantly. 
Mr H sometimes missed payments for two months at a time, but then seemed to clear these 
arrears when prompted by contact from Barclays. So he never triggered the full default 
process which usually starts after three months of not clearing outstanding arrears. As Mr H 
regularly brought his account back into line  and without more evidence to review  its hard 
for me to say exactly what else Barclays should have done at the time to support Mr Hs use 
of his account. 
Mr Hs credit limit was reduced in November 2011. Barclays cant provide the reason for this 
because the information is no longer available. Again, thats not surprising given how long 
ago the decrease took place. But, based on the statements for this account it seems likely 
this was the result of Mr Hs previous management of this account. Given how the account 
had been managed, I think it mightve been appropriate for Barclays to have considered 
reducing the credit limit earlier than 2011, but I can see Mr H paid off the previous balance of 
about £3,500 before this decrease took place. And theres no guarantee he wouldve been in 
a position to do so before this, so I think this was an appropriate step for Barclays to take to 
assist Mr H in reducing the overall level of debt he held with them. 
As I dont have statements for the other two accounts, I dont know how they were managed. 
Based on what Mr H has told us about his circumstances, it seems likely he wouldve been 
managing the other accounts in a similar way. Without further evidence though, Im unable to 
say what else Barclays shouldve done and so I cant uphold for the same reasons I set out 
above. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont think Barclays made a 
mistake in providing Mr H with the credit card accounts in the first place and, based on their 
obligations at the time these accounts were active, I dont think I can fairly conclude Barclays 
should have done more to intervene in Mr Hs use of the account. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to say he was disappointed but accepted the provisional decision. 
Barclays did not respond by the deadline. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H accepted my provisional decision and Barclays did not provide anything further for 
me to consider by the deadline, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
So I still find Barclays treated Mr H fairly in relation to his credit card accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman