DRN-3454992
The complaint
Mr C says Advantage Insurance Company Limited is wrongly trying to recover from him a 
total loss sum it paid for his car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged in two non-fault incidents, one on 18 December 2019 and another 
on 19 December 2019. He reported both to Advantage, and two claims were registered. He 
then decided to use an accident management firm (firm E) to pursue the second claim. But 
when he became unhappy with firm E, Mr C asked Advantage to deal with the second claim. 
In February 2020 Advantage wrote the car off, paid Mr C for it and allowed him to keep it, for 
a small retention fee. 
 
Mr C told us that when he got a second payment that month, he assumed it was for repairing 
the damage caused in the other accident. Many months later, Advantage told him that in fact 
hed been paid for the cars total loss twice. Initially another insurer (insurer B) had paid out 
as a result of Mr C instructing firm E. Advantage had then also paid for the cars total loss, 
unaware of insurer Bs payment. Advantage said hed have to return the sum it had paid him.  
Mr C said he didnt understand why Advantage hadnt pursued both claims - with the two 
relevant insurers - as he thought there should have been a second payment. He also 
queried why it had taken so long to contact him about the repayment. He agreed to return 
the sum Advantage had paid him, less the cost of repairs arising from the other accident. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint. She thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably. She said it closed the claim for the first accident as it decided to pay Mr C a total 
loss sum based on the damage from the second accident. So he wasnt entitled to another 
sum. The investigator said confusion had arisen because insurer B had also paid Mr C a 
total loss sum, following firm Es involvement. She said any repairs Mr C wished to have 
done on the car were meant to be paid for from the total loss payment. As Mr C disagreed, 
the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my opinion it makes no difference to the outcome for Mr C that Advantage wrote the car 
off based on one claim rather than two. Advantage offered Mr C the full pre-accident market 
value for the car, which was the maximum he was entitled to under the policy. As insurer B 
had already done the same, Mr C was overpaid in error. But all he was due was one total 
loss payment for the car, with no further sum for repairs. 
Once Mr C had been offered the pre-accident market value for his car, hed been put back in 
the position he was in before both accidents, as the sum offered was for the undamaged car. 
It was Mr Cs choice to take a slightly lower amount, in order to retain the damaged car  
and it was then up to him to decide whether to spend some of the settlement sum on 
repairing it. Any extra sum paid to Mr C would have put him in a better position than he was 
in before the accidents happened, which wouldnt have been fair or reasonable. 
     
Mr C believes that as two drivers damaged his car, two insurers should have been required 
to pay for the damage. The notes on the file show that both drivers were insured by the 
same insurer. But I dont think this point is relevant here anyway. Mr Cs full loss from both 
claims was covered by one settlement sum  and it makes no difference to a consumer how 
an insurer recoups its outlay from other insurers. 
Mr C agreed with Advantages pre-accident valuation of his car at £1,985. Advantage paid 
him £1,627.70 on 28 February 2020, after deducting a sum for the loss of the salvage value 
to Advantage when Mr C kept the car. Insurer B had paid him £1,642.20 only three weeks 
earlier, as it had also thought the car should be written-off, due to the second accident.
It seems Mr C didnt realise the first payment he got was from insurer B - and as he 
expected two payments for the two accidents, he wasnt surprised to get a second one. But 
the cost of repairing the minor damage from the first accident wouldnt have amounted to 
anything like the second payment of £1,627.70 he received three weeks later. Yet Mr C 
didnt query that payment. That meant hed then been paid a total of £3,269.90 - when the 
cars full pre-accident value was only £1,985  and hed also retained the car.
If Mr C had contacted Advantage at the time, the matter could have been sorted out then. 
Instead, Advantage went on to try to recover its outlay from insurer B. As insurer B didnt 
communicate well, months elapsed before Advantage decided it had no option but to issue 
legal proceedings. Only at that stage did evidence emerge to show that insurer B had 
already paid a total loss sum to Mr C. So I think the delay in Advantage contacting Mr C 
again was partly his fault and partly insurer Bs fault.  
Whilst I think Mr Cs confusion about the total loss process was understandable, Advantage 
made every effort to try to explain the situation to him. Advantage would normally have 
recovered the sum it paid Mr C from insurer B - had insurer B not already paid the money to 
Mr C. So I think  it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to require Mr C to return the full 
payment it made to him. I think Advantage has also acted reasonably by offering to discuss 
a reasonable payment plan with Mr C, rather than requiring one payment from him. 
  
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, as he still thinks he should be paid more. 
But I dont think theres any basis for that belief, and as I think Advantage acted reasonably, I 
cant uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 11 August 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman