DRN-3797757
The complaint
Mr D and Ms D complain about how Aviva Insurance UK Limited (Aviva) handled a claim 
under their home insurance policy. When I refer to Aviva I also mean its loss adjusters and 
contractors.
What happened
Mr D and Ms D are represented in their complaint by a third party, but for simplicity I will 
refer to them throughout.
Mr D and Ms D have a home insurance policy with Aviva covering their buildings and 
contents.
In June 2021 their home was damaged by an ingress of water. The water caused damage to 
several areas of the house. 
Aviva agreed to cover the internal damage caused by the water, but said it wouldnt pay for 
some external damage, because it said the ingress of water had exposed some areas of 
pre-existing defects, which its policy wouldnt cover.
Mr D and Ms D disputed Avivas decision. 
After the water ingress happened, Mr D and Ms D said that the smell of damp and mould in 
the property increased. Ms D has an underlying medical issue which means she is allergic to 
mould. 
Aviva arranged for a damp report from a company Ill refer to as A. Then, a different 
contractor who Ill call R was put in place to carry out the works. 
During the works to dry and clean the house, A returned to assess them and criticised Rs 
methods. Mr D and Ms D declined to allow R to complete the works. 
Aviva paid for their family to live in alternative accommodation. Mr D and Ms D have several 
pets which complicated the choice of suitable alternative accommodation. Mr D and Ms D 
declined to move back into the house until the mould had reduced to a suitable background 
level.
Aviva arranged for a specialist environmental sciences company to provide a detailed report 
on the property in November 2022.
Aviva has said that it thinks the house is considerably cleaner, dry and improved from the 
situation after the ingress of water. The presence of mould in the property after de-
contamination has been confirmed by Aviva.
Mr D and Ms D complain that Aviva:
Didnt adequately dry and clean their house, leaving it in a worse state and more 
toxic with mould.
Delayed the claim.
Didnt communicate with them effectively meaning they had no idea what was 
happening with the claim.
Caused an impact on their familys health.
Aviva said it thought it had made some errors in how its contractors had handled the claim, 
but it also said claims of this nature were very difficult to deal with. It said it would pay £750 
compensation to Mr D and Ms D. It said it wasnt able to fully answer the complaint because 
the claim was still ongoing.
Mr D and Ms D remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he thought Avivas offer of £750 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr D and Ms D didnt agree with the view. They said they thought Aviva had selected 
cheaper contractors to save money, who had potentially used unsafe chemicals to clean the 
house. and had made the mould problem worse. Because Mr D and Ms D didnt agree with 
the view, their complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure all parties that I have read all of the information in the file, even if I havent 
referred to it here. Ive focused on what I think are the key areas of this complaint.
In this case, there has been a significant amount of correspondence, which has continued 
after our investigators view. I think it will be helpful to state the situation at the time of 
writing:
Mr D and Ms D are still living in the alternative accommodation and say they feel they 
are being forced into accepting Avivas current plan of action.
They maintain Avivas contractors made the mould contamination worse, which they 
say is based on information in the specialist reports.
They refuse to pay to fix an area of contamination in one specific area in the house 
and maintain that it should be part of Avivas cleaning approach.
They say that Aviva continue to delay settlement of the claim.
Aviva offered to settle Mr D and Ms Ds claim by professionally cleaning the buildings 
and contents at a cost of about £35,000. It also said it would repair the damage it 
thought was caused by the water ingress, at a cost of about £3,000.
Aviva said it didnt think there was a reason why Mr D and Ms D couldnt move back 
into the property once it had been cleaned, because their house was habitable. Aviva 
also say it wont cover any other elements of damage in the property it says were 
pre-existing, which Mr D and Ms D will need to arrange and pay for. 
Aviva alternatively offered to settle the claim with a cash settlement for Mr D and Ms D to make the entire cleaning and repair arrangements themselves, or make a partial 
cash settlement using some of Avivas contractors with Mr D and Ms D arranging the 
remainder.
Initial claim response
I can see from the evidence I have that Avivas initial response to the claim was delayed. 
The contractors Aviva used made some errors and Aviva didnt respond effectively to Mr D 
and Ms Ds concerns about their health as well as further concerns they had about a family 
member.
But I can also see that Aviva responded to Mr D and Ms Ds concerns by changing the loss 
adjuster it had appointed. It agreed its service wasnt good enough, and that it would pay Mr 
D and Ms D £750 compensation for this. 
Ive thought carefully about this and I think the amount offered by Aviva is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what this service would recommend. 
Report on the current situation in the house
Ive read the latest specialist report provided by Aviva about the conditions in the house. The 
report includes a detailed, room by room analysis of the environmental conditions that exist 
throughout.
It seems to me that the report, which provides readings of the air quality together with 
samples taken by swabs from various surfaces, confirms that the house is clean and fit for 
habitation. 
Mr D and Ms D have said that this reports findings do not match those previously provided 
by A or R. But this latest report provided by Aviva goes into great depth beyond the earlier 
reports. It details that rodent droppings were found, along with DNA from dogs and other 
animals. What Mr D and Ms D have done is compare a very specialist report with an earlier 
one, which contains many caveats about examining its findings more closely.
Aviva was challenged by Mr D and Ms D to show that the house was clean and safe, and by 
engaging this specialist I think Aviva has reasonably done that. 
There are points in the report that I can see Mr D and Ms D dont agree with, but I think 
Aviva has taken those into account when its offered a settlement, and Ill talk about this 
below.
If Mr D and Ms D maintain that the property is unsafe, then I think its reasonable for them to 
have provided evidence of this. It seems to me that Aviva have done the fair and reasonable 
thing by instructing this latest report, and without further evidence from Mr D and Ms D I am 
minded to agree with its findings.
Settlement of the claim
Aviva has said that it estimates the cost of repairing the water damage at around £3,000 and 
it has confirmed it would pay for this.
In an effort to settle the claim, Aviva has agreed to have Mr D and Ms Ds contents removed 
from the property, professionally cleaned, and returned. Whilst the contents are out of the 
house, it has also agreed to clean the house internally.This would seem a reasonable solution to the remaining points in the latest specialist report 
Ive mentioned above and I think its offer to clean the house is fair and reasonable.
Mr D and Ms D have asked that Aviva provide a definitive confirmation that the house would 
be safe for them to return to, and a final clean after all works are complete. I understand 
whats been said by them about Ms Ds vulnerability, but I think its reasonable to say that a 
professional cleaning company should be able to clean the property to a suitable standard.
Having read Avivas proposed settlement of the claim, which gives Mr D and Ms D three 
choices about how to proceed, it also seems to me that Aviva is acting fairly and reasonably.
Id ask that both parties now work together to bring the claim to a swift conclusion.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
Aviva Insurance UK Limited has already made offers to:
Pay £750 to Mr D and Ms D to settle the complaint;
Clean Mr D and Ms Ds house and contents;
Repair the damage caused by the water ingress.
I think these offers are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance UK Limited should pay £750 to Mr D and Ms D if it 
hasnt already done so and arrange for the cleaning and repairs to be done. But I dont 
require them to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman