The complaint
Mr D complains about Mark Bates Ltds (Mark Bates) decision to decline a claim on an 
electric scooter warranty. 
Mr Ds has complained to Mark Bates and our service through a representative, who has 
raised some of the issues in this complaint. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr D 
only throughout.  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr D experienced problems with his mobility scooter. He contacted Mark 
Bates to raise a claim under his Scooter & Powerchair Warranty. 
Mark Bates sent out an engineer who said the batteries in the scooter were faulty. Mark 
Bates said faults with batteries are excluded under the policy and so they declined cover. 
Mr D disagreed and appointed his own engineer. Mr D told Mark Bates his engineer said the 
batteries were fine, however the battery charger had stopped working. Mr D said he had 
previously dropped the charger which had caused the issue. Mr D arranged to have the 
scooter serviced and the batteries replaced. He would like Mark Bates to cover the costs 
incurred for both. 
Mark Bates maintained its decision not to cover the claim and Mr D remained unhappy. An 
investigator investigated the complaint and thought Mark Bates had been fair to decline the 
claim and so he didnt think they had to do anything further. Mr D disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to be for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Scooter & Powerchair warranty theres cover in the event of a breakdown. That 
cover extends to repairing or replacing the mobility equipment, subject to the policy terms. 
These terms list several exclusions which arent covered, including:
5) This policy shall not apply
b) In respect of plugs, fuses, springs, electric motor brushes, batteries, off board battery
chargers, light bulbs, light covers, paintwork, trim, cables, filters, attachments, tyres, inner
tubes, brake linings, wing mirrors, seat covers, framework, bodywork or external
accessories. (my emphasis)
This means Mark Bates wont provide cover if the problem is with the batteries. 
DRN-1841639There is a relevant chronology to the issue of whether Mr D was ever advised that batteries 
were covered. We previously considered a similar complaint from Mr D and we gave our 
view in 2018 that Mark Bates had previously said in a telephone call that batteries werent 
covered. And we didnt uphold that complaint. A
Ive listened to the call where Mr D renewed his policy in September 2019. During this call he 
asks whether the batteries are covered by the warranty and the advisor confirms that they 
are not. Im satisfied Mark Bates made it clear that the batteries wouldnt be covered in the 
event of the claim both under the warranty and a separate insurance policy he also had. 
We rely on the reports from experts to build a picture of whats likely to have happened. 
Mark Bates engineers report states that the issue was related to the batteries, which 
required replacing  and the charger was without problem. Mr D has told us that his engineer 
found just one battery (out of the two) had a fault. Im satisfied Mark Bates has shown on 
balance that the batteries were faulty. And as the policy terms confirm cover isnt available 
for this, Im satisfied Mark Bates has been fair in declining the claim.
During this complaint Mr Ds representative has latterly said they think Mark Bates has 
discriminated against Mr D. Having considered all the information and listening to the calls 
between the representative and Mark Bates, I dont think theres support for any 
discrimination. I can understand why Mr D feels this way, but I dont think Mark Bates has 
done so. Mark Bates has simply applied the policy terms to Mr Ds claim, and unfortunately 
the claim isnt covered. I hope that it helps Mr D to know that someone impartial and 
independent has looked into his concerns. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman