DRN-3875522
The complaint
Mr S complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) didnt undertake sufficient 
due diligence on White Sands investments he made through his L&C Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) and that, as a result of this, hes suffered significant losses.
What happened
I've outlined the key parties involved in Mr S complaint below.
Involved parties
L&C
L&C is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in 
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal 
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
Talk Financial Solutions Limited (TFSL)
At the time of the events in this complaint, TFSL was an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
authorised by the then regulator  the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which later 
became the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). TFSL was authorised from 13 April 2011 to 
8 June 2016. TFSL was dissolved in October 2019.
Green Planet Investment Limited (GPIL)
GPIL was incorporated in Gibraltar. GPIL marketed a property investment scheme in Brazil 
to investors. GPIL wasnt regulated by the financial services regulator. This case involves 
investments in GPILs White Sands Country Club (White Sands).
As I understand it, GPIL granted a mandate to Capital Alternatives Sales And Marketing 
Limited to sell, on GPILs behalf, land owned by GPILs Brazilian subsidiary.
Capital Alternatives Sales And Marketing Limited (CASML) 
CASML was incorporated in April 2009 in the name Brett UK Limited by a Mr Brett Jolly. In 
January 2010 the company changed its name to GPIL as well, then in April 2012 it changed 
its name to CASML.
By September 2012 (when L&C received Mr S application to invest in White Sands), Mr 
Jolly had been appointed director of over 70 companies named White Sands Country Club 
[a number] Limited. This included being director of three companies White Sands Country 
Club [WS1909,1910 and 1911] Limited (all incorporated in August 2012) that Mr S pension 
monies would be invested in.
Both GPIL and CASML were ordered into liquidation on grounds of public interest on 20 
November 2013, this followed an investigation by the Insolvency Service.
What happened?
Ive briefly summarised whats happened below.
Mr S has said to us that:
He was advised by a Mr B to move to L&C to invest in products that included the 
White Sands investment. 
Hed understood Mr B to be an employee or director of TFSL.
Mr B had explained the White Sands proposal to him and he was guided by Mr B.
He was following Mr Bs advice on the GPIL investment. He was told that the 
investment would be secure and that it would offer a preferential return to the other 
investments on offer.
L&C received a completed application form for Mr S to open a new SIPP. The IFA details 
section of the application form records the introducing advisers name (Mr G) and the firm 
hes acting for (Talk Financial Solutions), along with TFSLs FSA authorisation number. A 
box is ticked to confirm that Mr S was advised at the point of sale and its recorded that initial 
remuneration of £1,995 would be paid to the IFA. Its also stated in the form that around 
£215,000 would be transferred in from Zurich but no initial post-transfer investments are 
recorded. Mr S signed the form on 1 June 2012.
L&C provided a copy of the suitability report that TFSL sent to Mr S on 1 June 2012. 
Amongst other things, this says that:
Mr S pension portfolio hadnt done much for the previous 6/7 years and he wanted to 
take a more aggressive stance with a portion of his portfolio.
Mr S would like a portion of his pension portfolio to be invested in overseas property 
and carbon credits holdings. Hed read through brochures/marketing material and 
visited the offices of Green Planet.
Mr S had confirmed his understanding and acceptance of the risks associated with 
investing in unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). Mr S was aware 
that such investments werent covered by the FSA or the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Investment specific risks had been discussed with Mr S.
Mr S had around £215,000 in his Zurich pension plan. Hed asked Zurich if he could 
access the intended investments through Zurichs SIPP and been told he couldnt.
With a high risk investor, like Mr S, TFSL would normally recommend a spread of 
investments and with some low/medium risk investments included. But Mr S didnt 
want to do this as it might dilute the potential returns.
It recommended that Mr S transfer his monies to L&C. L&C was the only SIPP 
provider facilitating both Green Planet Property and Carbon Credits investments.
20% of the transferred monies would be invested into the Green Planet Overseas 
Property Fund, 20% would be invested into the Green Planet Carbon Credit Fund 
and the residual 60% would be invested with a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
Mr S signed a form attached to the suitability report on 1 June 2012, this typed form said 
that:
I can confirm that I have disclosed all relevant information to enable you to assess 
my suitability for investing in Unregulated Collective Investments. I have not sought 
your advice on the specific Unregulated Investment as I already knew the product I 
wanted to invest in. I fully understood the risks associated with Unregulated Investments and I also fully understand the Green Planet product into which I am 
choosing to invest.
I appreciate the time you have taken talking about risk and I acknowledge your 
recommendation to split my investments. I am going to split my investment but I 
intend to have 40% in unregulated Alternative Investments and 60% in regulated 
collectives via a Discretionary Manager. You recommended a slightly lower 
percentage into Unregulated investments, however, I do not want to dilute my 
potential investment returns and to that end I will ignore your advice and make an 
investment of 40% into Green Planet.
I take full responsibility for the investment funds I choose to Self Invest into.
White Sands SIPP instruction forms were later sent to L&C, these were signed by Mr S on 
24 September 2012. It was noted that £27,500 was to be invested in plot WS19-09 and a 
further £1,206 was payable in legal and administrative costs bringing the total to £28,706. 
And identical sums were to be paid for investments in plot WS19-10 and WS19-11. There 
were three options available to the SIPP holder 36 month capped, 60 month capped or 
uncapped, 100% of capital growth. Mr S selected the last of these in the forms.
A White Sands Country Club Green Planet disclaimer was also signed for the investments 
by Mr S on 24 September 2012, its noted amongst other things in the disclaimer that:
The Zoning/Planning certificate supplied was genuine, up to date and legally valid for 
the development purchased.
The property was legally and financially unencumbered.
Green Planet were the vendors of the property and no financial advice had been 
provided by Green Planet.
If required, the investor had obtained all and any financial services advice from their 
own IFA.
The investors relationship with Green Planet was just that theyd purchased a 
property from it after receiving financial advice from a third party to do so.
The investor hadnt been coerced or bribed into entering into the agreement.
Mr S also completed L&C Investment Request forms on 24 September 2012, this was to 
acquire 100% of the issued share Capital in White Sands Country Club WS1909 and also 
in White Sands Country Club WS1910 and White Sands Country Club WS1911. It was 
explained in the forms that:
L&C wasnt authorised to, and hadnt given investment advice.
L&C had obtained legal advice in its capacity as trustee, so as to assess the risks of 
ownership of the company, and its title to the underlying plots and so as to ensure 
the acquisition of the appropriate title.
The advice L&C had obtained didnt cover the investment merits, marketability, or 
value of the plot(s).
The Company  which in Mr S case was the companies White Sands Country Club 
(WS1909 - WS1911) Limited  would hold the plot(s) identified in the corresponding 
White Sands SIPP instruction forms Mr S had signed and the Trustee, here L&C,  
would acquire 100% of the shares in the Company, subject to the Share Purchase 
Agreement.
The plot(s) would not be held directly by L&C but would be held indirectly via the 
Company.
The investor had reviewed information supplied by Green Planet, the Share 
Purchase Agreement and the Management Agreement.The investor understood the speculative nature of the investment and had obtained 
any advice they required.
Investing in unquoted shares is high risk and theres no established market for selling 
unquoted shares. Unquoted shares are unregulated investments and the protection 
of the FSCS wouldnt apply.
The investor would indemnify L&C in respect of liabilities that arose in relation to the 
investment.
A L&C form that Mr S also completed on 24 September 2012 detailed White Sands as the 
investment, confirmed the name and details for his contact at Green Planet Investment and 
recorded an investment amount of £27,500. There was a declaration at the end of the form, 
amongst other things, this included a description of some generic risks and an indemnity for 
L&C against any liabilities arising from the investments. The form also recorded that Mr S 
wasnt a certified or self-certified sophisticated investor and that hed received no advice on 
the merits of the proposed investment and the investment decision was solely his 
responsibility. 
Weve not been provided with a copy of the sale and purchase share agreement in this case 
by Mr S or L&C. However, L&C has provided us with a sale and purchase share agreement 
on a different case in which a SIPP investor also invested in White Sands. Im satisfied its 
more likely than not that, subject to a few exceptions such as reference to the individual 
SIPP member and the specific White Sands company/plot number, the agreement in that 
other case would have been largely identical to the agreements in Mr S case. 
It was noted, amongst other things, in the sale and purchase share agreement on the other 
case that the agreement was between GPIL (the Seller), Green Planet Investimentos 
Imobiliarios Ltda (the Guarantor) and L&C (the Buyer). 
Clause 4 of the agreement reads as follows:
4. Completion
4.1 Completion shall take place at the offices of the Buyers Solicitorsor at such 
other place as the parties may agree immediately after the signing and exchange of 
this Agreement when all (but not part only unless the Buyer shall so agree) of the 
business referred to in Schedule 3 shall be transacted.
Schedule 3 of the agreement is titled Completion arrangements and it says:
On Completion ("Completion" is defined in the document as completion of the sale 
and purchase of the Sale Share by the performance by the parties of their respective 
obligations under clause 4 and Schedule 3):
1. The Seller shall deliver to the Buyer:
1.1 executed transfer in respect of the Sale Share in favour of the Buyer, together 
with the share certificate for the Sale Share;
1.2 certified copies of the minutes recording the resolution of the board of 
directors of the Seller authorising the sale of the Sale Share and the 
execution of the transfers in respect of them;
1.3 such other documents as may be required to give a good title to the Sale 
Share and to enable the Buyer to become the registered holders of it;1.4 (as agents for the Company all its statutory and minute books and registers 
(written up to the business day immediately preceding the date of this 
Agreement), its common seal (if any), certificate of incorporation, any 
certificate or certificates of incorporation on change of name, details of all 
user names, passwords and codes used by the Company ("Company" is 
defined in the document as White Sands Country Club WS (a number) 
Limited (details of which are set out in Schedule 1)) for online filing of 
corporate documents, all books of account and other documents and records 
including copies of its memorandum and articles of association of the 
Company;
1.5the deeds and documents of title to the Property (Property is defined in 
the document as Plot WS (a number) White Sands Country Club, Murive, 
Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil, details of which are set out in Schedule 2) 
and all ancillary documents) (bold my emphasis).
2. When the Sellers have complied with the provisions of paragraph 1, the Buyer 
shall pay the Purchase Price by electronic funds transfer to the Nominated 
Account and payment of the Purchase Price into such account shall constitute 
a good discharge to the Buyer in respect of it.
Schedule 4 of the agreement is titled General Warranties. And, amongst other things, its 
explained that:

7. Title
7.1 The Company, is solely legally and beneficially entitled, and has a good and 
marketable title, to the Property.
8. Encumbrances
8.1 The Property (and the proceeds of sale from it) are free from:
8.1.1 any mortgage, debenture, charge (whether legal or equitable and whether 
fixed or floating), rent charge, lien or other right in the nature of security; 
and
8.1.2 any agreement for sale, estate contract, option, right of pre-emption or 
right of first refusal, 
and there is no agreement or commitment to give or create any of them.
9. Condition
9.1 The Property is in a good condition free from any contamination or pollution.
9.2 There are no development works, remediation works or fitting-out works 
outstanding in respect of the Property.
9.3 The Company has not received any adverse report from any engineer, 
surveyor or other professional relating to the Property and it is not aware of 
any predecessor in title having done so.
10. Ownership of assets10.1 Apart from the Property, the Company has no, and has never had, any other 
asset of whatever nature.
The agreement then has a section to be signed and dated by all of L&C, GPIL and Green 
Planet Investimentos Imobiliarios Ltda (Mr Jolly signed for both Green Planet firms in the 
agreement weve seen on the other case).
L&C wrote to Mr S in January 2014. It provided him with an update on GPIL, highlighting it 
had recently been placed into liquidation. L&C said that the investment Mr S had made in 
White Sands was to purchase 100% of the shares in a special purpose vehicle (SPV) 
company. And that the SPV was formed for the sole purpose of holding title to the plot of 
land specified in the application form. L&C said it understands that the purpose of the 
investment was to acquire a plot of land on White Sands Country Club development. And 
that the plots would be held for 3 years, 5 years or an unspecified period before then being 
sold back to GPIL, or to a third party.
The liquidator for GPIL wrote to L&C about the White Sands investment in October 2015. 
Amongst other things, it said that:
Its also the liquidator of CASML, which was the sole selling agent for the plots in the 
UK.
GPIL was incorporated in Gibraltar and operated as part of a wider group of 
companies which were involved in the sale of plots of land in Brazil to investors. The 
current and sole director of the company is Michelle Jolly (the wife of the former 
managing director Brett Jolly). 
The land is owned by a Brazilian company (Terras de Extremoz Investimentos 
Imobiliarios Ltds (Brazil)  (Terras Brazil)), that holds 99% of the shares in Brazil. 
The Company granted CASML the right to be the sole selling agent of the land in 
Brazil. 
The liquidator visited Brazil in February 2015 to conduct further investigations into the 
land.
The land is over 10km from the beach and theres no sign of any infrastructure 
having been put in place.
Following enquiries with the local land registry and agents in the area, the liquidator 
understands that the planning permission obtained wasnt appropriate for the 
proposed development and has since lapsed. 
Title to all of the individual plots of land is still held in the name of Terras Brazil and a 
number of local creditors had taken, or were taking, steps to register their liabilities 
against the land.
The liquidator had met with various local and international agents when visiting the 
land, none of the agents had been willing to provide a formal valuation of the land. 
However, theyd advised that the land was in an undesirable location and that its 
probably worth no more than approximately £200,000. This is far less than both the 
price paid for the land and also the cumulative amount the investors paid for their 
plots of land.
Investors paid funds to GPIL and to CASML in exchange for plots at the White Sands 
Country Club. These funds were subsequently transferred to Mr Jolly before being 
paid to Terras Brazil in order to finance the purchase of the land. 
As the land was purchased by Terras Brazil the proceeds of any sale would be 
payable to that company. And the funds paid to Terras Brazil for the purchase of the 
land are recorded in the books of Terras Brazil as a directors loan due to Mr Jolly.
It had been in contact with L&C to obtain information about investments that had 
been made through SIPPs, which it had been told L&C facilitated.Details of monies invested in the SIPP and monies paid to Mr S 
Weve been provided with a transaction history for Mr S SIPP. This records that a little under 
£217,000 was transferred in from Zurich towards the start of September 2012. There was 
then a further transfer in of about £75 from Zurich in December 2012. A transfer in of a little 
under £3,900 was effected from Transact in September 2013 and Transact transferred 
another £120 in April 2015.
 
TFSL was paid an IFA fee of a little under £2,000 in September 2012.
A total of £126,000, split equally been two different discretionary fund managers, was 
invested in September 2012. And, as I understand it, three investments of £28,706 were 
made in White Sands investments. With the first two of these being effected in November 
2012 and the final investment occurring in December 2012. 
Mr S took a tax-free cash sum of a little under £60,000 from his SIPP in June 2015. And Mr 
S has taken income from his pension fund on a number of occasions from October 2015 
onwards.
Mr S has provided us with a bank statement showing payments he received after hed made 
the White Sands investments. Theres a transfer in of £10,475 on 29 November 2012 and a 
further £5,470 on 18 December 2012. Weve seen evidence that £5,640 of these monies 
were transferred into an ISA on 27 December 2012. 
Mr S has explained that £10,000 was then transferred out of his bank account to fund an 
investment with St Jamess Place. Weve seen a statement showing the £10,000 leaving the 
account on 26 July 2013. And weve also seen St Jamess Place correspondence in which 
St Jamess Place is recommending Mr S use the £10,000 held on deposit to fund 
investments in a St Jamess Place ISA (£5,760) and a St Jamess Place Unit Trust feeder 
account (£4,240).
Whats happened with this complaint so far?
In response to Mr S complaint L&C said, amongst other things, that:
TFSL was Mr S regulated financial adviser when he applied for the L&C SIPP. TFSL 
was regulated and authorised by the FCA to provide pension transfer and investment 
advice.
L&Cs the sole trustee and administrator of Mr S SIPP. 
Under the rules of the trust, its the member who has the power to choose 
investments, following investment advice from their financial adviser. L&C has only 
limited powers of veto of any investment.
L&C doesnt provide investment advice and doesnt comment on the merits of any 
investment. Its not responsible for investigating the financial standing, integrity or 
expertise of parties running the investments. 
The suitability of the investment is the responsibility of the financial adviser.
L&Cs role is to satisfy itself that the investment is allowed within the trust rules and 
that it doesnt breach HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) regulations. It also 
establishes the liabilities and responsibilities it would have to take on as the owner of 
the asset.
The acquisition of the White Sands investment was by way of the formation of a 
company in the UK with the sole purpose of holding the relevant plot of land. The 
asset of the SIPP was therefore the purchase of 100% shares in the company. L&Cs solicitors monitored the formation of the company and checked that the title to the 
plots could be acquired by the company.
It didnt provide, and its not responsible for, the pension advice Mr S received.
It didnt have any agreements in place with the Green Planet Group.
It doesnt know whether the White Sands application form was sent directly by Mr S 
or via a third party but it does have a copy of the suitability report from the adviser 
recommending that Mr S invest in White Sands.
Mr S signed a typed disclaimer on 1 June 2012 in the TFSL suitability report. 
Mr S has said to us that:
He was told this was a secure, good investment, with a return that was better than 
other investments on offer and which was in line with his risk profile  but this has 
proven not to be the case.
The recommended White Sands investment was too risky for him, wasnt liquid and 
had poor corporate governance.
The only previous investments hed made outside of his pension were in TESSAs 
and a cash ISA.
The White Sands presentation was face to face with hand drawn sketches including 
several references to "green products". Before signing he queried some of the forms 
with Mr B as he was unsure of their meaning and implication. And was told that it was 
just a necessary step to process the investment. 
Mr Bs previous advice had been beneficial and hed asked Mr B about the 1 June 
2012 disclaimer form. Mr B had assured him it was ok to sign, so Mr S had signed 
the form.
Hed not been offered any payment until after hed signed all the paperwork. He was 
then told that there would be a cashback payment made to him as well. He received 
£15,000 in total split over two payments.
Mr S also raised a complaint against TFSL with us. TFSL later ceased to be a going concern 
and Mr S pursued a complaint against TFSL with the FSCS. The FSCS upheld Mr S 
complaint, it calculated Mr S losses to be in excess of £200,000 and it paid him £50,000 
compensation. Following this the FSCS provided Mr S with a reassignment of rights.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr S complaint and concluded it should be upheld. The 
investigator highlighted that hed asked L&C to provide evidence of the due diligence it had 
undertaken into the White Sands investment and that L&C had been unable to provide us 
with any information in response to this request. The investigator explained that, because of 
this, he was going to assess the complaint based on the information we had on file. Further 
that, based on the evidence wed received, if L&C had undertaken appropriate checks into 
the White Sands investment it would have concluded that the White Sands investment 
wasnt an investment that it should have accepted within Mr S SIPP. And that, by failing to 
do this, L&C hadnt treated Mr S fairly and it should redress him for the losses hed suffered.
Solicitors for L&C have said, amongst other things, that:
This complaint has similar facts to the Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly 
Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) case, but the investigators view 
doesnt explain why weve reached a different conclusion to that arrived at in Adams.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is attempting to use the Principles to circumvent 
the Adams decision. 
Consideration of the Principles must be via the appropriate Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) rules applying to the transaction.
The investigators view seeks to impose a duty on L&C that it doesnt owe and which goes beyond the scope of any duty envisaged by the parties.
The investigator in the view accepts that L&C couldnt give investment advice but 
suggests that the business should have been rejected as the investment was 
commercially unattractive.
Information contained in the liquidators report and in news articles that the 
investigator referred to wouldnt have been available at the time of the investment.
L&C only offered an execution-only service.
Insufficient weight has been given to contractual arrangements and the demarcation 
of roles and responsibilities. 
A breach of the Principles cannot, of itself, give rise to any cause of action at law.
The Principles fall to be construed in light of the COBS rules applicable to L&C, 
L&Cs regulatory permissions, L&Cs contractual arrangements and the statutory 
objective that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Publications issued after the transactions shouldnt have a bearing on this complaint.
Regulatory publications cant alter the meaning, or the scope, of the obligations 
imposed by the Principles.
Many of the matters which the 2009 Thematic Review Report invites firms to 
consider are directed at firms providing advisory services.
Even if the 2009 Thematic Review Report had been statutory guidance made under 
the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) S.139A (which it wasnt), the breach 
of such statutory guidance wouldnt give rise to a claim for damages under the 
FSMA.
The relationships in this case are similar to those in Adams, the distinguishing factor 
is that Mr S took advice from a regulated financial advice firm. 
At the time of the transaction complained of there was no obligation on a customer to 
take advice on the transfer of a pension, let alone a pension switch.
The investigator should have concluded that L&Cs duties to Mr S extended no 
further than those owed to the claimant in Adams and, accordingly, that its neither 
reasonable nor fair for L&C to pay compensation in this case.
The investigators view fails to have regard to the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their decisions, the fundamental principle of freedom of 
contract and to the authority of Adams and Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd 
[2020] C.T.L.C. 161. 
Were enabling recovery of losses flowing from non-contractual obligations, which 
were inconsistent with express obligations in the parties' contractual arrangements.
Mr S signed disclaimers to confirm that he knew that the investment was high risk, 
illiquid and may be difficult to sell. 
In Adams the Store First investment being high-risk didnt make it manifestly 
unsuitable and the sames true of the White Sands investment. 
It isnt fair or reasonable to hold that an execution-only SIPP provider should 
investigate an investment with the same level of scrutiny as an accountant 
completing a forensic report after the investment had failed.
It isnt reasonable to conclude that L&C should have completed due diligence on the 
commercial viability of the investment, or how returns would be generated.
Its also not fair to hold L&C responsible for not having identified that the planning 
permission obtained wasnt appropriate. 
L&C wasnt under an obligation to commission a report into the value of the land.
Determining the suitability of the investment would have required a full assessment of 
the investment and the investor's circumstances. And L&C couldnt have 
communicated the results of any assessment without putting itself in breach of its 
permissions.
Mr S made the investment in full knowledge of the risks, including that it was illiquid 
and may be difficult to sell. Mr S was also willing to act against advice. If L&C had declined to accept the investment its more likely than not that the 
transaction would have been effected with another SIPP provider. 
L&Cs conduct wasnt causative of any loss and no redress should be payable as a 
consequence.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for review. As part of 
that process, L&C was provided with a copy of any information it might not previously have 
seen that was being relied on and it was invited to let us have any further submissions it 
wished to make on that information. And L&C did make further submissions which I have 
considered carefully in full.
Following this I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and I concluded Mr S 
complaint should be upheld. In brief, I concluded that:
L&C should have been conducting checks  due diligence  on introducers and 
investments to make informed decisions about accepting business. This obligation 
was a continuing one.
On the basis of the available evidence, L&C didnt undertake sufficient due diligence 
into the White Sands investments before it accepted White Sands investments into 
its SIPPs, and before it accepted Mr S applications to invest in White Sands. Its 
failure to do so was unfair to Mr S. 
L&C didnt take appropriate steps or draw reasonable conclusions from information 
that would have been available to it if it had undertaken sufficient due diligence.
If L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence, it should reasonably have concluded 
that: 
oThe investment in White Sands would allow its SIPPs to become a vehicle for 
a high-risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset. Building 
work hadnt started, title to properties wasnt, in fact, being transferred to 
investors and appropriate planning permission hadnt, in fact, been secured.
oGPIL and/or CASML were making misleading and/or unfounded statements  
investors were being misled and there was a risk the investment might be 
fraudulent. 
oIt was very difficult to get independent valuations for the plots. And being able 
to independently value the property the Company was meant to hold was 
critical to being able to independently value the investment. 
L&C ought to have concluded there was a significant risk of consumer detriment if it 
accepted the White Sands investment into its SIPPs and that the White Sands 
investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPPs.
L&C didnt undertake appropriate steps, or draw reasonable conclusions, from 
information that would have been available to it had it undertaken adequate due 
diligence into the White Sands investment before it accepted that investment into its 
SIPPs. 
L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations and, in accepting Mr S applications to 
invest in White Sands, it allowed Mr S funds to be put at significant risk.
In the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for L&C to compensate Mr S to the 
full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs failings.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr S highlighted that:
If a final decision was issued in his favour, hed need to pay £50,000 plus interest to 
the FSCS.
If redress is paid into his SIPP, to access the £50,000 hed need to take pension 
income that would be taxable.Alternatively, if redress is paid to him directly, hed be repaying the £50,000 from 
redress monies that have been subject to a notional deduction for tax.
The first £50,000 of the redress should be paid with no deduction for tax and the 
residual should be paid less tax.
Mr S also queried whether L&C could be asked to pay £50,000 plus the FSCS interest 
directly to the FSCS. 
L&C didnt accept my provisional decision and solicitors for L&C provided a detailed 
response. Ive set out below a summary of what I consider to be the main points made in the 
response. However, the list isnt exhaustive and before making this decision I carefully 
considered the response in full:
Mr S received advice and support for investment decisions from TFSL. Mr S brought 
a successful FSCS claim against TFSL, this shows that TFSL provided advice.
Mr S was an aggressive investor who understood the intended strategy and took an 
active role in it. 
Theres no rational reason for holding a SIPP provider responsible where a 
complainant was fully advised. The advice of TFSL was causative of the decision to 
invest, if this wasnt down to Mr S own decision.
L&Cs actions had the least causative impact, to hold it fully responsible is unjust.
TFSL is responsible for any losses associated with the investment being unsuitable.
TFSL had primary responsibility for completing due diligence on the investment.
L&C knew that a financial adviser was involved and that the adviser would have the 
responsibility to advise on the merits of the investment. L&C could take comfort 
under COBS from the involvement of a regulated third party.
Amongst other things, TFSLs 1 June 2012 letter said that:
oMr S was willing to take a high degree of investment risk. 
oMr S had a very good working knowledge of investments, wanted to take a more 
aggressive stance and wanted to invest in alternative investments.
oMr S wanted to invest in the Green Planet Property Fund, hed looked into the 
fund and had knowledge of how it worked. Further, he understood and accepted 
the potential risks of investing some of his monies in unregulated collective 
investments. 
oTFSL had discussed risks associated with Mr S chosen Green Planet investment 
and hed confirmed he accepted and understood the risks  the letter discussed 
liquidity, political, event and currency risks.
An addendum to the letter said that Mr S understood the product he wanted to invest 
in and understood the risks associated with unregulated investments. 
L&C is being targeted as its the only regulated entity left standing. 
The provisional decision cherry picks from case law and statute. And holds L&C to a 
standard thats not provided for by statutory guidance or by the law. 
No regard is paid to the respective duties of the parties under the contract.
The provisional decision extends the scope of the duty owed by L&C beyond what 
was agreed by the parties. 
Cases discussed in the provisional decision (along with the discussion of the 
Principles) appear to have been deployed with a view to circumventing Adams.
Nothing in R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) provides a precedent for COBS to be ignored in preference to 
the Principles. 
R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878 pre-dates Adams and concerned a judicial review on the lawfulness of 
an ombudsman's decision. It didnt concern the duties of a SIPP provider at law. This Service dismisses the rationale of Adams on the basis that the alleged breaches 
in Adams took place after the contract was entered into, this is a false distinction.
Its unfair to use an alleged distinction that makes no practical differences to the 
operation of the precedent and to completely ignore a further difference that has a 
significant bearing on the scope of duty. 
The Principles arent being used by this service to inform or interpret the obligations 
imposed by COBS and at law, theyre being used to avoid having to base any 
decision on those rules.
Declarations in investment purchase requests for White Sands that Mr S signed said:
oL&C hadnt provided any financial or investment advice.
oThe investor had carried out their own due diligence on the investment.
oThe investment may be high risk and there may not be an established market 
for its sale. There may be a delay in selling it if a purchaser couldnt be found.
oUnregulated investments may not be protected by the FSCS and 
compensation might not be available in the event of a loss.
oThe investor indemnified L&C against all liability arising from the investment.
oL&C wasnt responsible for the assessment of the merits of the investment or 
the integrity and capability of the persons involved in promoting or 
administering it.
oResponsibility for the decision to purchase the investment and monitor it lay 
solely with the investor and any adviser theyd appointed.
L&C was entitled to rely on the declarations and disclaimers.
It would be unfair if the SIPP provider wasnt able to rely on express representations 
made by the consumer when signing the contractual documentation.
The provisional decision lays responsibility for the investment decisions with L&C.
Mr S was aware that L&C would act on an execution-only basis and would accept no 
responsibility for the quality of the investment business. 
Duties imposed by the COBS cant all apply to all firms in all circumstances.
The COBS rules contain some provisions and obligations that dont apply to 
execution-only SIPP providers.
Amongst other things, the judge in Adams held that in order to identify the extent of 
the regulatory duties imposed on Carey, "one has to identify the relevant factual 
context and that "the key fact ... in the context is the agreement into which the 
parties entered, which defined their roles in the transaction".
The judge also said that "a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best 
interests of the client, who is to take responsibility for his own decisions, cannot be 
construed...as meaning that the terms of the contract should be overlooked, that the 
client is not to be treated as able to reach and take responsibility for his own 
decisions and that his instructions are not to be followed.
In Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as determined by contract, 
would govern what it had to do to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook.
In Adams it was said that any reports, guidance and correspondence issued after the 
events at issue could not be applied to Careys conduct at the time. And publications 
issued after the transaction here should have no bearing on the complaint. 
The provisional decision refers to a 2013 Insolvency Service press release and an 
October 2015 letter from GPIL's liquidator, but doesnt say how information in them 
could have been obtained at the time, or the level of due diligence needed to do so.
L&C had no specialism in assessing the prospects of an investments success. 
L&C couldnt have determined that statements on GPIL's website were misleading. It 
wasnt until 2013 that there was information in the public domain that indicated that 
the information contained on the website might be misleading.
GPIL's track record (and corporate structure) might indicate that the investment was 
speculative, but this was known and accepted before the investment was made.
The Investment Request forms explained that plots might be difficult to value.There was no obligation for L&C to obtain independent valuations of the plots of land.
This services view is that L&C should have completed adviser level due diligence. 
But this wasnt requested or offered and is at odds with L&Cs permissions. 
The complaint must be looked at in the context of the retainer. 
The purpose of the declarations was to set out the limits of the retainer and the 
division of responsibilities. In extending the duties beyond what was accepted by 
each party this service is imposing a duty on L&C that wasnt requested or accepted. 
This services conclusions are that L&C owed a duty that extended far beyond what 
was agreed in the retainer documents, in contradiction to the rationale of Adams.
Weve accepted that Mr S was unaware of the risks, despite disclaimers he signed.
Mr S assertion that he was an unsophisticated investor who acted in accordance 
with the advice given contradicts the contents of the suitability report. An oral hearing 
should be held to test Mr S evidence on this point. If a hearing isnt held, the 
documentary evidence should take precedence. 
Gestmin SGPS S.A. v Credit Suisse [2013] EWCA 3560 (Comm) states that little 
weight should be given to recollections due to their inherent unreliability and that 
factual findings should be based on documentary evidence.
Mr S involvement went beyond instructing the transactions, he selected the 
investment and decided on the percentage of his fund to be invested. 
If Mr S was reliant on advice from TFSL, it follows that he would still have sought to 
act on its advice if L&C hadnt accepted the investment. 
Mr S had decided to invest in Green Planet before he received advice and confirmed 
he was willing to accept a high degree of risk. He acted against advice in relation to 
the percentage holding. 
If L&C had refused the investment, the most likely outcome is that Mr S would have 
sought another SIPP provider to facilitate this. 
Mr S was offered (and received) a cash incentive. This service has accepted Mr S 
submission that he wasnt aware of this until after he'd signed the paperwork. An oral 
hearing should be held to determine how accurate this is. 
A cashback payment on an investment is usually a marketing tool designed to 
encourage investment. It makes no sense to offer such an incentive but to keep this 
hidden from the investor until after they have committed. 
Weve artificially distinguished Adams on the question of causation, despite a cash
incentive having been offered.
Facts are being interpreted in order to reach a pre-determined conclusion. 
I considered the request for an oral hearing and explained to both parties why I was 
satisfied that Im able to fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. L&C 
didnt agree with what I said about this and solicitors responded on L&Cs behalf. I set out 
below a summary of what I consider to be the main points made in that response. 
However, the list isnt exhaustive and before making this decision I carefully considered 
the response in full:
Mr S position is different to that set out in the documents.
The documents say that Mr S had a good knowledge of investments, fully understood 
the investment and that hed selected it. Mr S didnt challenge this. 
It would be fair to hold an oral hearing to determine what previous investment 
experience Mr S had, what he knew about the investment and why hed selected it.
Information could be obtained at the hearing with a view to testing the credibility of Mr 
S position.
A hearing is also required to obtain further evidence on the payment Mr S received, 
what part this played and what hed have done in the alternative.
This service is accepting Mr S recollections in preference to the documentary evidence, despite case law establishing that the former should take precedence. 
R. (on the application of Aviva Life and Pensions (UK) Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2017] EWHC 352) says that this service must take account of the relevant 
law and, if deviating from it, explain why. 
If an oral hearing isnt agreed to, the complaint should be dismissed without 
consideration of the merits under DISP 3.3.4(10) on the basis that the subject matter 
would be more suitable for determination by the Court. 
Mr S submissions are so at odds with the evidence that testing this via witness 
statement and cross examination is required in order to fairly deal with the complaint.
What Ive decided - oral hearing request 
The DISP rules on hearings
As a preliminary point, the Financial Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which 
certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum formality (see section 225 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). And, the Dispute Resolution rules found 
in the FCA Handbook under which we operate (the DISP rules) provide the following in 
relation to the resolution of complaints by the ombudsman and hearings:
DISP 3.5.5R
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
DISP 3.5.6R
A party who wishes to request a hearing must do so in writing, setting out:
(1) the issues he wishes to raise; and
(2) (if appropriate) any reasons why he considers the hearing should be in private;
so that the Ombudsman may consider whether:
(3) the issues are material;
(4) a hearing should take place; and
(5) any hearing should be held in public or private.
DISP 3.5.7G
In deciding whether there should be a hearing and, if so, whether it should
be in public or private, the Ombudsman will have regard to the provisions of
the European Convention on Human Rights.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, Im satisfied that it would normally not be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642). 
My consideration of the hearing requestIn accordance with my duties under FSMA and the relevant DISP provisions as set out 
above, Ive carefully reconsidered the request for a hearing on this complaint. And, I remain 
satisfied that a hearing would only be required in this case if I thought the complaint couldnt 
be fairly determined without convening one.
As L&C will be aware, we dont operate in the same way as the courts. Unlike a court, we 
have the power to carry out our own investigation. And, if particular information is required to 
decide a complaint fairly, in most circumstances were able to request this information from 
either party to the complaint, or even from a third party.
DISP 3.5.8R provides:
The Ombudsman may give directions as to:
(1) the issues on which evidence is required;
(2) the extent to which evidence should be oral or written; and
(3) the way in which evidence should be presented.
This means I, as the ombudsman determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues 
on which evidence is required and how that evidence should be presented. And Im not 
restricted to oral cross-examination to further explore points or to test the veracity of 
information thats been provided to me.
There are a number of issues that are in dispute in this complaint, but its not uncommon for 
us to deal with complaints where the parties involved disagree as to what has happened 
and/or with the findings weve reached. But this doesnt necessarily mean that a hearing is 
required to fairly determine the complaint.
We generally decide complaints on the basis of the paperwork and submissions made either 
in writing or over the phone. Weve received written responses and documentary evidence 
from both parties during our investigation of this complaint, and Im able to consider that 
evidence fully. A number of written submissions have been made over the course of this 
complaint and I dont consider a hearing will necessarily make a difference or cause Mr S 
recollections of events that occurred many years ago to change.
I also want to emphasise that a hearing is only an opportunity for me to ask the parties to
provide oral evidence. A hearing wouldnt normally provide L&C with the opportunity to 
cross-examine evidence or testimony provided. Our hearings dont follow the same format 
as a court. Were inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. The purpose of any hearing 
would be solely for me to obtain any further information from the parties that I require in 
order to fairly determine the complaint. The parties wouldnt usually be allowed direct 
questioning or cross examination of the other party to the complaint.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances Im able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or even 
from a third party. In this case, weve put questions to Mr S about the White Sands 
investments including, amongst other things, about the presentation of sales documentation 
to him, his understanding of forms he signed and his understanding of the payments he 
received. And Mr S has provided answers to the questions we put to him. L&C has had the 
opportunity to consider, and comment, on Mr S answers. 
For example, we emailed L&C in July 2022 and provided it with the opportunity to let us have 
any comments it wished to make about, amongst other things, what Mr S said hed been told 
by his adviser and also his comments on the payments hed received  Mr S submissions 
on these points were included within a PDF document attached to a July 2022 email we sent L&C. And I can see that solicitors for L&C have, in fact, made further submissions on a 
number of points since then, both before and after I issued my provisional decision on this 
complaint. Further, and more broadly, L&C was invited to make submissions to us on a 
number of occasions during our investigation of this complaint. And if I considered further 
evidence was needed on any point L&C raised in its submissions, its been open to me to 
ask the parties for any further evidence I required.
An investigator issued a provisional assessment on this complaint in September 2021. And I 
then issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. L&C has been given 
a number of opportunities to make representations and has made several sets of 
representations.
In this case, Im satisfied Ive sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. 
So I dont consider a hearing  or any further investigation by other means  is required. 
The parties to this complaint have been given ample opportunity to make submissions at 
every stage of the process. Each party has had the benefit of seeing the material 
submissions made by the other party and been afforded the opportunity to respond. And 
bearing that in mind and having taken all of L&Cs evidence and arguments into account, Im 
satisfied that Im able to fairly determine Mr S complaint without convening a hearing.
Also relevant to the assessment as to whether a hearing is held is my findings (which
I acknowledge L&C disputes) that L&C shouldnt have accepted the White Sands investment 
in its SIPPs at all, that I dont think any other SIPP provider would have accepted the White 
Sands investment and, further, that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say that another 
SIPP operator would have made the same mistakes as L&C did by accepting Mr S 
applications to invest in White Sands. 
If L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice it 
shouldnt have accepted White Sands investments into its SIPPs at all. That should have 
been the end of the matter  if that had happened Mr S intentions or understanding wouldnt 
have affected his applications to invest in White Sands  and Im satisfied the arrangement 
for Mr S wouldnt have come about in the first place. And Mr S comments about acting in 
accordance with the advice he was receiving, his recollections of what he was told by his 
adviser and his recollection that there was no mention of any payment until after paperwork 
had been completed are secondary to this.
DISP 3.5.4R provides:
If the Ombudsman decides that an investigation is necessary, he will then:
(1) ensure both parties have been given an opportunity of making representations;
(2) send both parties a provisional assessment, setting out his reasons and a time 
limit within which either party must respond; and
(3) if either party indicates disagreement with the provisional assessment within that 
time limit, proceed to determination
Im satisfied this procedure has been followed in this case, and that the appropriate next step 
is for me to proceed to determination. And, whilst considering my determination, if I 
considered further evidence was needed on any point, its been open to me to ask the 
parties for any further evidence I required.
Having taken all of the evidence and arguments into account, Im satisfied that Im able to 
fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In deciding this, I have had 
regard to the parties rights under the European Convention on Human Rights.What Ive decided  dismissal
Amongst other things, L&C has made submissions about why it believes this complaint 
might be better suited to be considered by a court. Its appropriate to address this issue 
before I set out my findings on the merits of this complaint. 
Having carefully considered L&Cs submissions on this point, Im satisfied that Mr S 
complaint is one we can and should consider. 
Weve a statutory duty to resolve complaints referred to us which are within our jurisdiction, 
subject to certain discretions which are set out in our rules. 
L&Cs representative has submitted that the complaint should be dismissed without 
consideration of the merits under DISP 3.3.4(10) on the basis that the subject matter would 
be more suitable for determination by the court. To be clear, this complaint was referred to 
us after 9 July 2015.
Ive carefully considered whether this complaint should be dismissed. DISP 3.3.4 A R says 
that I may dismiss the complaint, not that I must. So Ive discretion to decide what Ill do in 
the circumstances. Im satisfied that I dont need to exercise my discretion to dismiss this 
complaint under DISP 3.3.4 A R on the basis it would significantly impair our effective 
operation, on the basis that it would be more suitable to be dealt with by a court or a 
comparable ADR entity. Im also satisfied that I dont need to exercise my discretion to 
dismiss this complaint under DISP 3.3.4 A R for any other reason.
This complaint requires consideration to be given to, amongst other things, the rules and 
principles set down by the FCA. In my view, these are matters which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is particularly well placed to deal with. Im also satisfied we possess 
the necessary knowledge and expertise to fairly determine the complaint. Our investigation 
is also well advanced.
Im satisfied this complaint is well suited to the work of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
We have significant experience of dealing with complaints of this type, including complaints 
where parties disagree about what occurred, or where there are contradictions in 
submissions or evidence  and were well-placed to consider them. 
Considering Mr S complaint wouldnt in my view seriously impair our effective operation. So, 
overall, Im not required to dismiss this complaint, and for the reasons Ive given, Im not 
exercising my discretion to dismiss it. As such, Ive gone on to set out my findings on the 
merits of this complaint below.
What Ive decided  and why - merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reconsidering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
need to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
As a preliminary point, the purpose of this final decision is to set out my findings on whats 
fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a point 
by point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so whilst Ive carefully considered all the submissions made by both parties, Ive focussed here on the 
points I believe to be key to my final decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Relevant considerations
Having carefully reconsidered all of the evidence, including the submissions in response to 
my provisional decision, Im still of the view that the relevant considerations in this case are 
those that Id previously set out in my provisional decision. As such, and while taking into 
account all of the submissions that have been made, Ive largely repeated what Id said 
about this point in my provisional decision.
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878 (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman whod upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore still 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr S case. 
Ive reconsidered whether Adams means that the Principles shouldnt be taken into account 
in deciding this case. And, I remain of the view that it doesnt. I note that the Principles for 
Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial case against Options SIPP. 
And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to SIPP operators in his 
judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles apply 
to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear, I dont say this means 
Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken account of both 
judgments when making this decision on Mr S case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of the FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.  The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr S complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual 
relationship between the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 
2.1.1R that happened after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
And in Mr S complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the White Sands investment involved a significant risk of consumer detriment 
and, if so, whether it ought to have declined to accept applications to invest in White Sands 
before it accepted Mr S applications. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr S cases are also different. And I need to construe the duties 
L&C owed to Mr S under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr S case.  
So Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr S case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr S 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an investment in a SIPP 
and/or rejecting an application isnt the same thing as advising Mr S on the merits of the 
investment and/or the SIPP. 
Overall, Im still satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to 
be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr S case.   
The regulatory publicationsThe FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Ive considered the relevance of these publications. And Ive set out material parts of the 
publications here, although Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 Report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports and the Dear CEO letter 
arent formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the 
reports and Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their 
importance should be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for 
Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to 
ensure its treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. In that respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what 
SIPP operators should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice, and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
At its introduction the 2009 Thematic Review Report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides 
examples of good practices we found.
And, as referenced above, the report goes on to provide examples of measures that
SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and
suggestions we have made to firms.
So, Im satisfied that the 2009 Report is a reminder that the Principles apply and it gives an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Report set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates 
what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So I remain satisfied 
its relevant and therefore appropriate to take it into account.
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied its appropriate to take 
them into account too.
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about publications published after Mr S SIPP 
was set up. But I remain of the view stated in my provisional decisional that, like the 
ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that some of the publications post-date 
the events that took place in relation to Mr S complaint, mean that the examples of good 
practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the 
later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles 
that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the 
Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
I note that the judge in the Adams case didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review Report, 
2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his 
consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant 
to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the 
transactions were suitable for Mr S. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to give advice to Mr S, 
and couldnt give advice. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or the 
scope of, the Principles. But theyre evidence of what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take them into account when deciding 
this complaint.
Id also add that, even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post-dated the 
events subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry practice that 
existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 2009 Report 
together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could and should 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time and 
before it accepted Mr S application.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams v Options didnt consider the regulatory 
publications in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
bearing in mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or 
good industry practice.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr S applications to 
establish a SIPP and to invest in White Sands, L&C complied with its regulatory obligations: 
to act with due skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what L&C should 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
And, taking account of the factual context of this case, it remains my view that in order for 
L&C to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst 
other things it should have undertaken sufficient due diligence checks on TFSL/the business 
TFSL was introducing and the White Sands investment before deciding to accept Mr S 
applications. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, what Ill be looking at here is 
whether L&C took reasonable care, acted with due diligence and treated Mr S fairly, in 
accordance with his best interests. And what I thinks fair and reasonable in light of that. And 
I think the key issues in Mr S complaint are whether it was fair and reasonable for L&C to 
have accepted Mr S SIPP application and White Sands investment applications in the first 
place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried out appropriate due diligence checks on 
TFSL and the White Sands investment before deciding to accept Mr S applications.
And the questions I need to consider include whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified that 
consumers introduced by TFSL and/or investing in White Sands were being put at significant 
risk of detriment. And, if so, whether L&C should therefore not have accepted Mr S 
application for the L&C SIPP and/or White Sands investments.
The contract between L&C and Mr S In its response to my provisional decision, L&C made a number of submissions about its 
contract with Mr S and Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about this.
My provisional decision was made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP 
operator and this final decision is made on the same basis. I dont say L&C should (or could) 
have given advice to Mr S or otherwise have ensured the suitability of the SIPP or White 
Sands investment for him. I accept that L&C made it clear to Mr S that it wasnt giving, nor 
was it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in his SIPP investments. 
And that forms Mr S signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses arising as a result 
of L&C acting on his instructions were his responsibility. 
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr S case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Mr S on the suitability of the SIPP or White Sands investment. 
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. And I remain 
satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations, when conducting its operation of SIPPs 
business, L&C had to decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or 
referrals of business with the Principles in mind. To be clear, I dont agree that it couldnt 
have rejected introductions or applications without contravening its regulatory permissions 
by giving investment advice.
The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included being satisfied that a 
particular introducer/investment is appropriate to deal with/accept. That involves conducting 
checks  due diligence  on introducers and investments to make informed decisions about 
accepting business. This obligation was a continuing one. 
As set out above, to comply with the Principles, L&C needed to conduct its business with 
due skill, care and diligence; organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively; and 
pay due regard to the interests of its clients (including Mr S) and treat them fairly. Its 
obligations and duties in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the 
circumstances, information and events on an ongoing basis.
So, and well before the time of Mr S application, I think that L&C ought to have understood 
that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on TFSL 
to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. And I think L&C also ought to have 
understood that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate due 
diligence on investments, like the White Sands holding, before accepting them into a SIPP. 
Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, L&C was 
required to consider whether to accept or reject a particular investment (here White Sands), 
with the Principles in mind.
Amongst other things, L&C has said that its role was to satisfy itself that the investment was 
allowed within the trust rules and that it didnt breach HMRC regulations. Further, that it also 
established the liabilities and responsibilities it would have to take on as the owner of the 
asset.
To be clear, its my view that L&C was obliged to carry out due diligence on the White Sands 
investment  due diligence that went further than simply checking that the investment was 
SIPP-able under HMRC rules. I say that after taking into account the regulatory publications Ive referenced earlier in this decision, amongst other matters, in considering whether L&C 
acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
And I think that its fair and reasonable to expect L&C to have looked carefully at the White 
Sands investment it was allowing Mr S pension fund to be invested in. To be clear, for L&C 
to accept the White Sands investment without carrying out a level of due diligence that was 
consistent with its regulatory obligations, while asking its customer to accept warnings 
absolving it of the consequences, wouldnt in my view be fair and reasonable or sufficient. 
And if L&C didnt look at an investment in detail, and if such a detailed look would have 
revealed that the investment might not be secure, might be fraudulent, or might not exist, it 
wouldnt in my view be fair or reasonable to say L&C had exercised due skill, care and 
diligence  or treated its customer fairly  by accepting such an investment.
L&Cs due diligence on White Sands
Mr S complains that L&C didnt undertake sufficient due diligence on the White Sands 
investments. I cant see that hes expressed dissatisfaction about any other investments that 
L&C accepted after his SIPP was established. As such, in this final decision, Ive not 
considered the adequacy, or otherwise, of the due diligence L&C undertook into any 
investments that werent the White Sands investments.  
L&C has said that the acquisition of the White Sands Country Club investment was by way 
of the formation of a company in the UK with the sole purpose of holding the relevant plot of 
land. And that the asset of the SIPP was the purchase of 100% shares in that company. 
L&C has said that its solicitors monitored the formation of the company and checked that the 
title to the plots could be acquired by the company. Weve asked L&C for evidence to show 
exactly what its solicitors did but L&C hasnt provided the information requested. 
Weve also asked L&C a series of questions about the due diligence it undertook on the 
White Sands investment/GPIL and for a copy of any product literature it had obtained. Some 
of the questions asked included: what its conclusions about the investment were, whether it 
conducted an independent report into the investment and how it had satisfied itself the 
valuation was fair and reasonable.
Having asked L&C for this information, we subsequently chased it for a reply but, again, 
weve received no substantive response to our enquiries from L&C. 
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested.
 
So, L&C has provided us with very little information about any due diligence it undertook into 
White Sands or GPIL.
Based on the information thats been made available to us, Im not satisfied that L&C 
undertook sufficient due diligence on the White Sands investment before it decided to accept 
it into its SIPPs, and where such due diligence ought to have led it to conclude the White 
Sands investment shouldnt be accepted into its SIPPs. And based on the evidence weve 
been provided, my current view is that L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations and didnt 
act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S by not performing sufficient due diligence 
on the White Sands investment before deciding to accept it into its SIPPs and before 
accepting Mr S applications to invest in White Sands.
What should L&C have done? Taking into account all the available evidence and the relevant considerations Ive 
referenced above, and whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  in 
relation to the White Sands investment  my view is that L&C should have: 
Identified White Sands as a high-risk, speculative and non-standard investment and 
carried out sufficient due diligence into it. 
Considered whether to permit White Sands investments to be held in its SIPPs.
Taken reasonable steps to check that the investment was genuine and not a scam, 
or linked to fraudulent activity.
Independently verified that the assets were real and secure, and the White Sands 
investment operated as claimed. 
Ensured that the investment could be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently. 
Taken reasonable steps to ensure that title to property was being acquired by the 
SIPP/by the company that the SIPP was acquiring 100% of the issued share capital 
in. 
Taken reasonable steps to check that the Seller was doing what was expected under 
the sale and purchase share agreement, such as delivering to the buyer the deeds 
and documents of title to the property before the purchase price was paid by the 
Buyer.  
Taken reasonable steps to ensure its SIPPs wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-
risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset, and could be a scam.
L&C hasnt provided us with sufficient evidence to demonstrate that it did any of these 
things, or to show how what it did represented fair and reasonable treatment of Mr S in this 
case. 
So, on the basis of the available evidence, I find that L&C didnt undertake sufficient due 
diligence into the White Sands investments before it accepted White Sands investments into 
its SIPPs, and before accepting Mr S applications to invest in White Sands, and I find its 
failure to do so was unfair to Mr S. 
If L&C had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
discovered?
As Ive explained previously, L&C has provided us with very little information about any due 
diligence it undertook into White Sands. So, Ive carefully considered information about the 
White Sands investment from documents available elsewhere, such as archived pages from 
GPILs website, an Insolvency Service press release from November 2013 and GPILs 
liquidators letter to L&C in October 2015.
A number of these documents were published after L&C accepted Mr S applications and, as 
such, werent available to L&C prior to the events that took place in relation to Mr S 
complaint. However, Im satisfied that some of the information referenced in the documents, 
such as information relating to details about the structure of CASML/GPIL and the White 
Sands investment, would have been discoverable by L&C prior to the events Mr S has 
complained about, had it undertaken sufficient due diligence.  Amongst other things the following statements appeared on GPILs website prior to L&C 
receiving Mr S application:
We (Green Planet Investment)are now internationally recognised as one of the 
leading Property Consultants in the field.
Intensive and meticulous research utilising satellite, cadastral demographic and 
available census data  in conjunction with municipal and domestic Spatial 
Development Plans  enables Green Planet to predict future investment trends into 
international emerging and green-field development markets. This, in conjunction 
with the Board of Directors wealth of specialist knowledge and experience in the 
arena, leads to excellent property investment opportunities whilst retaining solid 
rationale. In short: Minimum Risk, Maximum Return.
Regarding the White Sands Country Club, it was stated amongst other things on GPILs 
website in 2011 that:
White Sands Country Club is located in Natal on the booming north-east coast of 
Brazil. The club enjoys the sea breeze of the sandy white dunes of Genipabus 
pristine coastline and not only offers a prime piece of land with the potential to build a 
beautiful home, but also provides investors with a fantastic investment opportunity.
The exclusive boutique Country Club has 244 residential homes and is located in one 
of the most up and coming residential suburbs of Natal. The Country Club offers 
sports facilities that include football, tennis, mini-golf and a state of the art equestrian 
centre. Guests can also unwind and relax in the clubs boutique spa facilities, pool 
complex, jacuzzis and saunas.
Important Facts:
Number of Plots = 244
Plot Size = 360-515m2
Planning Permission Status = Full planning permission granted
Nearest Airport = Natal (Approx 15 miles)
Estimated Annual Appreciation = 15-25%
By May 2012 the information about White Sands on the website had been updated, including 
that:
The exclusive boutique Country Club has over 600 residential homes located in one 
of the most up-and-coming residential suburbs of Natal. With its proximity to the 
beach and the history of Brazil's leisure and recreational activities the opportunities to 
take part in sporting pursuits both low and high intensity will be numerous. 

White Sands Country has been divided into three separate phases. Phase One of 
White Sands Country Club has now completely sold out. We have now moved on to 
Phase Two of the project, with the minimum investment for a 360m2 plot being 
£17,495.
As with Phase One, Phase Two has been very popular and we are now nearing 95% 
of sales completed in Phase Two. The launch of Phase Three is imminent in the 
coming weeks and at that point, the land will be re-valued and we expect that prices 
for 360m2 plots in Phase Three will start from between £19,495 and £22,495.
The plots come with full planning permission and ALL relevant due diligence reports.The Insolvency Service published a press release in November 2013 titled Green Planet 
investment companies wound up following Insolvency Service investigation into a land 
scheme in Brazil. It was noted, amongst other things in this release that:
A UK and a Gibraltar company, both called GPIL  which had marketed a property 
investment scheme, in Brazil taking £14 million from investors, have been ordered 
into liquidation in the High Court in London in the public interest.
GPIL representatives persuaded investors they were dealing with a large UK 
registered bank. And salesmen used high pressure sales techniques and made 
exaggerated promises of 20-30% returns on investment to persuade investors to buy 
plots of land and off-plan apartments at three sites in Natal, Brazil.
Websites used by GPIL, which included www.gpirewards.com, 
www.greenplanetinvestment.com and www.gpigroup.eu, claimed or implied that 
GPIL was an expert in the international property market and had undertaken 
significant due diligence in relation to the sites. 
Investors were told that White Sands Country Club would be completed and open by 
March 2013.
The site is said to be owned by a Brazilian registered company, Green Planet 
Investimentos Imiliarios Ltda which is a subsidiary of GPIL in Gibraltar and is 
described as part of the Green Planet Group.
The grounds for winding up CASML were lack of commercial probity by making 
misleading and unfounded statements when marketing the sites to the public, lack of 
transparency and insolvency.
The grounds for winding up GPIL were lack of commercial probity in allowing its 
agent CASML to make misleading and unfounded statements when marketing the 
sites to the public and lack of transparency.
GPIL director, Mr Jolly, had told investigators that no building work was ever started. 
CASMLs companys share capital was initially 1,000 ordinary shares of £1 each. All 
shares were originally held by Mr Jolly who subsequently transferred 670 shares to 
GPIL in Gibraltar and 330 shares to a Mr Thompson. Those 330 shares were 
subsequently cancelled and GPILs 670 shares were subsequently transferred to 
Green Planet Investment International Holdings plc, part of a corporate group known 
as the Green Planet Group of which Mr Jolly was the ultimate owner.
The press release quoted a company investigations supervisor at the Insolvency Service:
Green Planet Investment was a slick land investment scheme designed to make 
money only for those with the company and not the 300 investors who were 
persuaded by false and misleading statements to invest over £14 million into an 
investment black hole.
It was also recorded in the press release that, in ordering both companies into liquidation on 
grounds of public interest on 20 November 2013, Registrar Nicholls said:...The ground for winding up as produced in the evidence, which is not opposed, is 
this: That Capital made misleading and/or unfounded statements in respect of the 
land marketed for sale; that members of the public dealing with Capital were misled 
and/or confused as to which legal entity they were dealing with and that Capital 
appears or is insolvent Green Planet granted a mandate to Capital to sell on its 
behalf the land which it itself owned by its Brazilian subsidiary. There is a clear link 
from the evidence. Green Planet knew or should have known of the misleading 
and/or unfounded statement being made by Capital or its staff and that members of 
the public were misled and/or confused as to which legal entity they were dealing 
with. The conclusion of the Secretary of State, with which this Court concurs, is that 
Capital displayed a lack of commercial probity by making misleading and/or 
unfounded statements.
Those statements made were in respect of the investment opportunity, Capitals 
experience, due diligence carried out, that planning permission had been obtained at 
the White Sands County Club site, which was stated to be full planning permission, 
increases in the value of plots and the progress, or lack of progress, in respect of the 
development of the sites In respect of Capital, the evidence set out, which is 
unopposed, enables the Court to conclude that it must be and is in the public interest 
to make a winding up order in respect of Capital... In circumstances where it is 
appropriate to make an order to wind up Capital the conclusion is that a winding up 
order should also be made in respect of Green Planet for the reasons set out.
I think its more likely than not that L&C had received, and acted on, applications to invest in 
White Sands from different consumers (whether introduced by TFSL or a different 
introducer) before it received Mr S SIPP application. I think thats consistent with what TFSL 
said about L&C in its June 2012 suitability report. 
I think L&C ought to have understood that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to 
carry out appropriate due diligence on investments before accepting them into its SIPPs. 
I think its important I emphasise here that Im not saying that L&C should necessarily have 
discovered everything that later became known had it undertaken sufficient due diligence 
before accepting the White Sands investments into its SIPP. But I do think that appropriate 
checks would have revealed some fundamental issues which were, in and of themselves, 
sufficient basis for L&C to have declined to accept the White Sands investments in its SIPPs.
And, before it had received Mr S applications to invest in White Sands, I think that L&C 
ought to have identified that:
The White Sands investment purported to offer a very high return and there appears 
to be minimal evidence to support such a projection. I dont expect L&C to have been 
able to say the investment would be successful. But such a high projected return 
without any apparent basis should have given L&C cause to question its credibility. 
There was a risk here that consumers might be misled about the potential returns, or 
at least did not have sufficient information to assess their viability.
GPIL doesnt appear to have had a track record with similar developments and was 
making statements on its website which appear to be misleading and/or unfounded. 
Had sufficient due diligence been undertaken, I think L&C ought to have questioned 
the credibility of some of the things GPIL was saying. For example, it being 
internationally recognised as one of the leading property consultants in the field. Or 
its ability to predict future investment trends, in conjunction with its directors 
specialist knowledge and experience, resulting in a Minimum Risk, Maximum 
Return investment opportunity. The way the White Sands investment was structured was unusual and might 
reasonably be described as a sophisticated and/or complex investment; it could 
suffer significant losses, the nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at 
the outset. The holding exposed investors to significant risks such as: opaque 
corporate structures; illiquidity; and risks inherent in unregulated investments. 
The investment was based overseas and would be subject to the domestic laws and 
regulations that apply to the ownership of land and matters governing investments. 
This created additional risk and weve been provided with no evidence that L&C 
asked for an opinion about the potential impact of this from, for example, an 
independent law firm based in that country. Or that it sought independent verification 
that the plots being purchased were as described, real and secure, or that the 
investment operated as claimed.
Investors were purchasing 100% of the shares in recently incorporated companies - 
White Sands Country Club WS(a number), which had Mr Jolly as the sole director. 
Land was being acquired in Brazil by a Brazilian subsidiary of GPIL (Gibraltar). And    
investors were entering into a sale and purchase share agreement, whereby they 
were paying funds to GPIL in exchange for 100% of the shares in a company that 
would have good title to a plot at White Sands Country Club. 
The plots could be difficult to independently value, both at point of purchase and 
subsequently (as proved to be the case when the liquidator attempted to obtain 
valuations albeit after the events complained about here). Apart from the property, 
the Company that investors were acquiring 100% of the shares in had no other 
assets. Being able to independently value the property the Company held was, 
therefore, critical to being able to independently value the investment.
Weve been provided with no evidence that that L&C took steps to ensure that the 
plots could be independently valued prior to accepting the investment into its SIPPs. 
Had it done so, I think its more likely than not that it would have been identified that it 
was difficult to get independent valuations for the plots. Alternatively, in the instance 
L&C had been able to ensure an independent valuation prior to accepting the White 
Sands investment into its SIPPs, I think its more likely than not that it would have 
been identified that the land was worth far less than the amounts investors were 
paying for the plots. And this was information that called into question the viability of 
the proposed business model (particularly in light of the very high projected returns). 
Under the sale and purchase share agreement, following the signing and exchange 
of the agreement, and before the purchase price was paid, the Seller was meant to 
deliver to the Buyer the deeds and documents of title to the property.
Title to the development plots wasnt, in fact, being transferred. This was at odds with 
L&C forms that stated the companies that SIPPs were acquiring 100% of the shares 
in (in Mr S case, this was White Sands Country Club WS 1909, 1910 and 1911) 
would own and hold the plots identified in the respective White Sands Country Club 
SIPP instruction forms (bold my emphasis). 
There appears to have been significant discrepancies between what was stated in 
the sale and purchase agreement and the actual position. Including that: oThere were no development works, remediation works or fitting-out works 
outstanding in respect of the Property. 
oFollowing the signing and exchange of the sale and purchase share 
agreement, and before the purchase price was paid, the Seller was meant to 
deliver to the Buyer the deeds and documents of title to the property.
oThe Company, White Sands Country Club WS (a number) Limited), was 
solely legally and beneficially entitled, and had a good and marketable title, to 
the Property.
In May 2011, GPIL had described the White Sands Country Club as having 244 
residential homes and by May 2012 this had increased to over 600 residential 
homes. Thats a substantial increase in the number of residential homes GPIL was 
claiming existed and in a relatively short period of time. I think that level of expansion 
over that period of time ought to have reinforced the importance of L&C 
independently verifying that assets linked to the White Sands investment were real 
and secure.
Investors were being given the impression that the land acquired was proximate to 
the beach, that the necessary full planning permission had been granted and that the 
site was progressing. In fact, the land was kilometres from the beach, there were no 
signs of any infrastructure having been put in place and/or building work having 
started and the planning permission obtained wasnt appropriate.
The investment wasnt subject to regulation in the same way as regulated funds. And 
investors potentially didnt have recourse to the FSCS or this service.
If L&C had completed sufficient due diligence, what ought it reasonably to have 
concluded?
If L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence, I think it should reasonably have concluded 
the White Sands investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPPs. Thats because: 
Title to properties wasnt, in fact, being transferred to investors.
The investment in White Sands would allow its SIPPs to become a vehicle for a high-
risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset. Building work hadnt 
started and appropriate planning permission hadnt, in fact, been secured.
GPIL and/or CASML were making misleading and/or unfounded statements  
investors were being misled and there was a risk the investment might be fraudulent. 
It was very difficult to get independent valuations for the plots. And being able to 
independently value the property the Company was meant to hold was critical to 
being able to independently value the investment. Further, if L&C had been able to 
obtain an independent valuation, I think it would have been identified that the land 
was worth far less than investors were paying.
Each of these in isolation was very serious, I think these points ought to have been red flags 
for L&C when it was considering whether to accept the White Sands investments into its 
SIPPs. They emphasise the importance of sufficient due diligence being undertaken before 
investments are accepted and before SIPP investors monies are invested. 
I think that these points of concern, which I think ought reasonably to have been identified by 
L&C before it accepted Mr S applications, ought to have led L&C to conclude there was a significant risk of consumer detriment if it accepted the White Sands investment into its 
SIPPs and that the White Sands investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPPs.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think L&C undertook appropriate steps or drew 
reasonable conclusions from the information that Im satisfied would have been available to 
it, had it undertaken adequate due diligence into the White Sands investment before it 
accepted that investment into its SIPPs. I dont think L&C met its regulatory obligations and, 
in accepting Mr S applications to invest in White Sands, it allowed Mr S funds to be put at 
significant risk.
Theres a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular investment for a SIPP and 
advising on its suitability for the individual investor. I accept that L&C wasnt expected to, nor 
was it able to, give advice to Mr S on the suitability of the SIPP and/or White Sands 
investment for him personally. To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have 
assessed the suitability of the White Sands investment for Mr S. I accept L&C had no 
obligation to give advice to Mr S, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for 
him. 
So, my finding isnt that L&C should have concluded that Mr S wasnt a candidate for high-
risk investments. Its that L&C should have concluded the White Sands investment wasnt 
acceptable for its SIPPs and it thereby failed to treat Mr S fairly or act with due skill, care and 
diligence when accepting the White Sands investments into his SIPP. 
I think its important I emphasise here that Im not saying that L&C should necessarily have 
discovered everything that later became known had it undertaken sufficient due diligence 
before accepting the White Sands investments into its SIPP. But I do think that appropriate 
checks would have revealed some fundamental issues which were, in and of themselves, 
sufficient basis for L&C to have declined to accept the White Sands investments in its SIPPs.
So Im satisfied L&C should have identified a number of the concerns Ive mentioned, and 
ought to have drawn the conclusion Ive set out, based on what was known at the time. I 
dont say that L&C should have known White Sands was a fraudulent investment at the time 
 only that it ought to have identified significant points of concern, which ought to have led it 
to conclude it shouldnt accept the White Sands investment. It ought to have identified that 
there was a high risk of consumer detriment here. And its the failure of L&Cs due diligence 
thats resulted in Mr S being treated unfairly and unreasonably.
In my opinion L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the 
relevant time. So, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C didnt act with due 
skill, care and diligence, and it didnt treat Mr S fairly, by accepting the White Sands 
investments in his SIPP. 
L&Cs due diligence on TFSL
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether to accept introductions 
from TFSL. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators publications as set out 
earlier in this decision. 
As part of our investigation, L&C was asked a series of detailed questions about the due 
diligence it undertook into the introducer (which was TFSL for the SIPP). Having asked L&C 
for this information, we subsequently chased it for a reply but weve not received a 
substantive response to our enquiries.
Under DISP 3.5.9 (3) R I may reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and 
take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested. 
So, L&C has provided us with very little information about its relationship with TFSL.
I accept that TFSL was authorised by the FSA when it introduced Mr S to L&C. But this 
doesnt necessarily mean that L&C did all the checks it needed to do. 
However, given what Ive said about L&Cs due diligence on the White Sands investment 
and my conclusion that it failed to comply with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice at the relevant time, I dont think its necessary for me to also consider L&Cs due 
diligence on TFSL. Im satisfied that L&C wasnt treating Mr S fairly or reasonably when it 
accepted the White Sands investment into its SIPPs, so Ive not gone on to consider the due 
diligence it should have carried out on TFSL before accepting Mr S business from it and 
whether this was sufficient to meet its regulatory obligations. And I make no findings about 
this issue.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr S 
applications?
For the reasons previously given above, I think L&C should have refused to accept the White 
Sands investment in its SIPPs. So things shouldnt have got beyond that. 
L&C has referred to forms Mr S signed. In my view its fair and reasonable to say that just 
having Mr S sign declarations, wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its regulatory 
obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns L&C ought to have had about the White 
Sands investment. 
L&C knew that Mr S had signed forms intended to acknowledge, amongst other things, his 
awareness of some of the risks involved with the White Sands investment and to indemnify 
L&C against losses that arose from acting on his instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on 
the contents of such forms when L&C knew, or ought to have known, allowing the White 
Sands investment to be held within its SIPPs would put investors at significant risk wasnt 
the fair and reasonable thing to do. Having identified some of the risks Ive mentioned above, 
its my view that the fair and reasonable thing to do would have been to refuse to accept the 
White Sands investment in its SIPPs.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Mr S signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat him fairly. To be clear, 
Im satisfied that indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, nor 
do they attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when 
deciding whether to accept or reject investments or business. 
To be clear, my finding is that, acting fairly and reasonably to investors, L&C should have 
concluded that it wouldnt permit the White Sands investment to be held in its SIPPs at all. 
And Im satisfied that Mr S pension monies were only transferred to L&C because it was 
allowing GPIL investments  I think its quite clear from TFSLs report thats why L&C was 
the recommended SIPP provider. And I think its more likely than not that if L&C hadnt 
permitted the White Sands investment to be held in its SIPP that Mr S pension monies 
wouldnt have been transferred to L&C or invested in White Sands. Further, that Mr S 
wouldnt then have suffered the losses hes suffered as a result of transferring to L&C and 
investing in White Sands. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr S L&C SIPP shouldnt have been established and his monies 
shouldnt have been invested in the White Sands holdings. And that the opportunity for L&C 
to execute investment instructions to invest Mr S monies in White Sands or proceed in 
reliance on an indemnity and/or risk disclaimers shouldnt have arisen at all. Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr S 
applications to invest in White Sands.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr S compensation in the circumstances?
The involvement of other parties
In this decision Im considering Mr S complaint about L&C. However, I accept that another 
regulated party was involved in the transaction complained about  TFSL. Mr S also raised a 
complaint against TFSL with us. We concluded that complaint should be upheld, but TFSL 
ceased to be a going concern before redress was paid to Mr S. And Mr S then pursued his 
complaint against TFSL with the FSCS. The FSCS upheld Mr S complaint, it calculated Mr 
S losses to be in excess of £200,000 and it paid him £50,000 compensation. Following this 
the FSCS provided Mr S with a reassignment of rights.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award,
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP
3.7.2R).
In my opinion its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold L&C 
accountable for its own failure to comply with its regulatory obligations, good industry 
practice and to treat Mr S fairly.
The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require L&C to pay Mr S compensation 
for the loss hes suffered as a result of its failings. Ive carefully considered if theres any 
reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr S for his loss.
And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C 
to compensate Mr S to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its failings.
I accept that TFSL and/or GPIL/CASML might have some responsibility for initiating the 
course of action that led to Mr S loss. However, Im satisfied that its also the case that if 
L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator, the 
arrangement for Mr S wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered 
could have been avoided.
I want to make clear that Ive carefully taken everything L&C has said into consideration. And 
its still my view that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for L&C to compensate Mr 
S to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs failings. And, taking into 
account the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be 
appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&Cs liable 
to pay to Mr S.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the suitability of the 
SIPP or the White Sands holdings for Mr S. I accept that L&C wasnt obligated to give advice 
to Mr S, or otherwise to ensure the suitability of the pension wrapper or investments for him. 
Rather, Im looking at L&Cs separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Mr S taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
In reaching my conclusions in this case Ive thought about section 5(2)(d) of the FSMA (now 
section 1C). This section requires the FCA, in securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the general principle that consumers 
should take responsibility for their own investment decisions.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
say Mr S actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings. 
In my view, if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice it shouldnt have accepted White Sands investments into its SIPPs at all. That 
should have been the end of the matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied the 
arrangement for Mr S wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered 
could have been avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on the White Sands 
investment and reach the right conclusions. I think it failed to do this. And just having Mr S 
sign forms containing declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C meeting its obligations, or 
of escaping liability where it failed to meet its obligations. 
TFSL was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise on the transactions this 
complaint concerns. Im satisfied that in his dealings with it, Mr S trusted TFSL to act in his 
best interests. Mr S also then used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in 
L&C. 
Ive carefully considered what L&C has said about Mr S being aware of the risks. Mr S was 
made aware of some of the risks associated with unregulated investments and the White 
Sands investment. But, on balance, I also think that Mr S acted with reliance on the adviser 
he was dealing with. And I think that Mr S testimony of being reassured by that adviser that 
the investments being arranged for him were good investments is credible. In any 
eventuality, this is a secondary point because, as mentioned above, if L&C had acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice Im satisfied that 
it shouldnt have accepted White Sands investments into its SIPPs at all. That should have 
been the end of the matter  and if that had happened, Im satisfied the arrangement for Mr 
S wouldnt have come about in the first place.
So, overall, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say 
L&C should compensate Mr S for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to say in 
the circumstances that Mr S should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed the 
transactions be effected.
Had L&C declined Mr S business from TFSL, would the transactions complained about still 
have been effected elsewhere?
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
I acknowledge Mr S was made aware of some of the risks associated with unregulated 
investments and the White Sands investment. And Im satisfied that Mr S was paid a cash 
sum in this case and that the monies he received were then invested elsewhere. 
As L&C is aware from documents provided to it before I issued my provisional decision. We 
asked Mr S if hed received any incentive when making his investment. Mr S replied and said 
that thered been no mention of any incentive before the paperwork was signed. However, Mr S also explained that he had received a payment after hed signed all the 
paperwork  at which point it was explained that hed receive a cashback payment. Mr S 
said that hed understood the payment to be in lieu of any interest payments during the five 
year investment period. Mr S said that hed received two payments totalling £15,000 and 
that hed find a bank statement showing the payments. When bank statements were 
provided these showed payments broadly similar to what Mr S had suggested, with £10,475 
paid to him on 29 November 2012 and a further £5,470 paid to him on 18 December 2012. 
And it appears that the bulk of these monies were then transferred from the bank account 
and reinvested. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, where a payment has been offered after the 
paperwork has been signed it cannot reasonably be said to have incentivised entry into the 
transaction. 
L&C requested an oral hearing to, amongst other things, determine how accurate what Mr S 
has said about the payments is. Ive already explained above that I dont consider a hearing 
will necessarily make a difference or cause Mr S recollections of events that occurred many 
years ago to change. And why Im satisfied that Im able to fairly determine this complaint 
without convening a hearing.
In this case, Mr S has also stated that he was told by the adviser he was dealing with that 
the investment was a good investment, with a return that was better than other investments 
on offer. And, on balance, I think its more likely than not that he was assured by what hed 
been told by the adviser he was dealing with. 
Overall, and having carefully considered all the submissions that have been made, I remain 
satisfied that Mr S, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transactions this 
complaint concerns for reasons other than securing the best pension for himself. 
Im also satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to say Mr S actions mean he should bear the loss 
arising as a result of L&Cs failings. Had L&C acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and best practice, it shouldnt have accepted Mr S applications to invest in White 
Sands at all. That should have been the end of the matter. And had this occurred Im 
satisfied the November 2012 and December 2012 payments wouldnt have been made to 
Mr S.
From the correspondence Ive seen, I think that the only reason Mr S pension monies were 
transferred to L&C was because TFSL understood it to be amongst the only, if not the only, 
SIPP provider accepting White Sands investments into its SIPP. That position seems to be 
supported by the contents of GPILs liquidators October 2015 letter, in which the only 
provider it mentions as facilitating White Sands investments through SIPPs is L&C. So, 
based on the available evidence, Im not satisfied any other SIPP provider would have 
accepted the White Sands investment in its SIPPs. The corollary of this is that Im satisfied 
that, but for L&C accepting the White Sands investments in its SIPPs, the transactions 
complained about here wouldnt still have been effected elsewhere.
For completeness, even if Im wrong about this and even if there was another SIPP provider 
prepared to accept the White Sands investment in its SIPPs, I wouldnt think its fair and 
reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate Mr S for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator would have made the same mistakes as Ive found 
L&C did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider would have complied 
with its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt have 
accepted the White Sands investment into its SIPPs. I appreciate that the White Sands investment wasnt the only investment Mr S effected in his 
L&C SIPP post-transfer, but Im satisfied from the contemporaneous documentation that the 
reason Mr S pension monies were transferred to L&C was so as to effect the White Sands 
investments. 
So, I think its more likely than not that but for L&Cs failings in accepting the White Sands 
investment in its SIPPs, Mr S wouldnt have transferred his monies into a L&C SIPP so as to 
effect the investments this complaint concerns or have received the payments he received. 
In my opinion, this case is very different from that of Mr Adams. And having carefully 
considered all of the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if 
L&C had refused to accept White Sands in its SIPPs, the transactions this complaint 
concerns wouldnt still have gone ahead.
Overall, I think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Mr S compensation in the 
circumstances. While I accept that other parties might have some responsibility for initiating 
the course of action thats led to Mr S loss, I consider that L&C failed to comply with its own 
regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions proceeding by declining to 
accept the White Sands investments in Mr S SIPP when it had the opportunity to do so. 
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr S  including TFSL. In my view, in considering what fair 
compensation looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against L&C that 
requires it to compensate Mr S for the full measure of his loss. L&C accepted the White 
Sands investments into its SIPPs and but for L&Cs failings, Im satisfied that Mr S pension 
monies wouldnt have been invested in White Sands holdings. 
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter. However, that 
fact shouldnt impact on Mr S right to fair compensation from L&C for the full amount of his 
loss. The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr S wouldnt have suffered the loss 
hes suffered. As such, Im of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for L&C to compensate Mr S to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its 
failings, and notwithstanding any failings by other firms involved in the transactions.
I acknowledge that Mr S has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of his reassignment of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the 
FSCS in the event this complaint is successful. So I will make no allowance for what hes 
been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Mr S to make the arrangements to make any 
repayments he needs to make to the FSCS.
Ive considered what Mr S said in response to my provisional decision about the monies hell 
need to repay to the FSCS. The monies he received from the FSCS were paid to him directly 
and Im satisfied that what Ive set out further below is fair redress in this complaint.  
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think that in the circumstances of this case its 
fair and reasonable for me to conclude that L&C should have decided not to accept the 
White Sands investment to be held in its SIPPs before it had received Mr S application from 
TFSL. And I conclude that if L&C hadnt accepted the White Sands investment in its SIPPs, 
Mr S wouldnt have established a L&C SIPP, transferred his pension provisions into it and 
made the White Sands investments he then made. For the reasons Ive set out, I also think its fair to ask L&C to compensate Mr S for the loss hes suffered as a result of L&C 
accepting the White Sands investment in its SIPPs.
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgments but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr S to the position hed now be in but for what I consider to be L&Cs 
failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr S applications.
Mr S has complained about the monies that were invested in the White Sands investments 
and I think that L&C should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position of 
the monies that were invested in the White Sands investments to the position those monies 
would have been in had the investments in White Sands not been effected. I cant be certain 
of what funds, and in what proportions, those monies would have been invested in from late 
2012 onwards if they hadnt been transferred into the L&C SIPP and invested in White 
Sands. Its possible they might have been retained in Mr S existing policies, but its also 
possible they might still have been transferred elsewhere and invested in other holdings. 
Given the lack of certainty on this point, and having carefully considered this issue, for the 
purposes of quantifying redress in this case I think the fair and reasonable approach is to 
assume that the monies in question would have experienced a return from the date they 
were transferred into the L&C SIPP equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total 
Return Index). Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved over the period in question.
What must L&C do?
In light of the above, L&C should calculate fair compensation by comparing Mr S current 
position to the position Mr S would be in if he hadnt invested in White Sands. In summary, 
L&C must:
1) Calculate a current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of the monies 
that were invested in the White Sands investments if theyd not been transferred 
to the L&C SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of the monies that were invested in the White Sands 
investments in Mr S L&C SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less any outstanding 
charges. This value might be £0.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr S share in any residual White Sands holdings 
in his SIPP that cannot currently be redeemed.
5) Pay an amount into Mr S SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his 
pension have caused him.Ive explained how L&C should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Calculate a current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of the monies 
that were invested in the White Sands investments if theyd not been transferred 
to the L&C SIPP.
L&C should calculate what the monies that were invested in the White Sands 
investments would now be worth, as at the date of this decision, had they not been 
invested in White Sands and had instead achieved a return from the date of transfer 
into the L&C SIPP equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index.
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. 
L&C can make a notional allowance in its calculation, in the form of a notional 
withdrawal, for any monies that have been realised from Mr S White Sands 
investments since outset. Any notional withdrawals to be allowed for should be 
deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually realised from 
the White Sands investments and paid to Mr S/his SIPP, so that they cease to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point on. To be clear, there should be no 
notional allowance in the calculation for any monies Mr S was paid by the FSCS.
L&C must make a notional allowance in its calculation to allow for the monies Mr S 
received as cashback, thats the payments of £10,475 on 29 November 2012 and 
£5,470 on 18 December 2012. These are monies that Mr S wouldnt have received if 
he hadnt transferred his pension monies to L&C to invest in White Sands and, as 
such, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for L&C to make an allowance for a 
notional deduction of these monies in this redress calculation. The notional 
withdrawals to be allowed for should be deemed to have occurred on the date these 
monies were actually paid to Mr S, so that they cease to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on.
2) Obtain the actual current value of the monies that were invested in the White Sands 
investments in Mr S L&C SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less any outstanding 
charges. This value might be £0.
This should be the current value of these monies as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr S pension, as a result of the White Sands investments.
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr S share in any residual White Sands holdings in 
his SIPP that cannot currently be redeemed.
But for any illiquid White Sands holdings that remain within Mr S L&C SIPP, Mr S 
monies could be transferred away from L&C. In order to ensure the SIPP could be 
closed and further SIPP fees could be prevented, any remaining illiquid White Sands 
holdings need to be removed from the SIPP. To do this L&C should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial value 
for any illiquid White Sands holdings that remain within Mr S L&C SIPP, and pay this 
sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments.
If L&C is unwilling or unable to purchase any illiquid White Sands holdings that 
remain within Mr S L&C SIPP, then the actual value of any such investments it 
doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes of the redress 
calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value for the 
purposes of ascertaining the current value of such investments in step 2).
If L&C doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from these 
investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mr S may receive from the White Sands investments after the date of my 
decision, and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. L&C will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr S SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protections or allowances.
If L&C is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S SIPP, or if doing so would give 
rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that amount direct to him. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
6) Pay Mr S £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss that Mr S has suffered as a result of the problems with 
his pension, I think that the loss suffered to this portion of his pension provision has 
caused Mr S distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate him for this as 
well.
SIPP fees
If any illiquid White Sands holdings that remain within Mr S L&C SIPP cant be removed 
from the SIPP, and because of this it cant be closed after compensation has been paid, then 
it wouldnt be fair for Mr S to have to continue to pay annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP 
open. So, if the SIPP needs to be kept open only because of any illiquid White Sands 
investments that remain within it, and if the SIPP is used only or substantially to hold those illiquid investments, then L&C should pay an amount into Mr S SIPP equivalent to five years 
worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP (based on the most recent years fees). 
Five years should allow enough time for the issues with any illiquid White Sands holdings 
that remain within the SIPP to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As 
an alternative to this L&C can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by 
Mr S until the SIPP can be closed.  
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr S or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date L&C receives notification of Mr S acceptance of my final decision. 
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt paid within 28 
days. 
L&C must also provide the details of its redress calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
For the reasons given, its my final decision that Mr S complaint is upheld and that London & 
Colonial Services Limited must pay fair redress as set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that London & Colonial Services 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest 
set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that London & Colonial Services Limited pay Mr S the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S could accept a decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr S may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept a decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Alex Mann
Ombudsman