DRN-3846609
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold her fee-paying 
packaged bank accounts.
Mrs A says that she was unable to make use of the travel insurance due to her suffering 
from chronic medical conditions. She also said that she didnt need the breakdown cover as 
she doesnt drive.
Mrs A also says that she contacted the bank to request an overdraft and was recommended 
she upgrade her account.
Account history
Mrs As account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free account
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Account on 10 April 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier Account on 13 February 2004
Downgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Account on 18 May 2004
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier Account on 16 May 2007
Downgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Account on 7 June 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier Account on 25 September 2008
Downgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Account on 24 October 2008
Upgraded to a fee-paying Privilege Premier Account on 23 January 2009
Downgraded to a fee-free account on 25 March 2021
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the packaged 
accounts had been mis-sold. 
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mrs A says that she wanted to increase her overdraft and was recommended to upgrade her 
account. I note that Mrs A didnt actually mention this when she raised her complaint with 
Co-op. However, Co-op has since explained that Mrs A already had a £200 arranged 
overdraft facility on her fee-free account before she agreed to upgrade to the Privilege 
account in April 2002. And Mrs As arranged overdraft facility remained at £200 when Mrs A 
upgraded to the Privilege account. So I think that Mrs A was aware from the outset that she 
didnt need a fee-paying account to either have an arranged overdraft, or to increase an 
arranged overdraft facility.
That said, both the Privilege and Privilege Premier account included a guaranteed i.e. not 
subject to credit checks, interest-free overdraft facility of £100 (increased to £200 in 
September 2008) and £260 (increased to £300 in September 2008) respectively. As such, I 
think that Mrs A agreed to upgrade (and downgrade) to the various packaged accounts to 
take advantage of this benefit provided by the account. Im also mindful that as the interest-
free overdraft facility is guaranteed, it may also be the case that in later years, if Mrs A was 
unable to increase her overdraft facility by applying for one, for example if her credit rating 
resulted in her being declined an overdraft facility, then taking our the packaged accounts 
wouldve been her only way of obtaining or increasing an overdraft facility on her account.
As such, based on everything I have seen, Im unable to say that Co-op has provided mis-
leading information to Mrs A about the need to have a packaged account to obtain an 
overdraft.
I understand that the packaged accounts were sold on a non-advised basis. Indeed, the 
multiple changes to the account and the notes that Co-op has provided indicated that Mrs A 
requested her account to be repeatedly upgraded and downgraded over the years. This 
means that Co-op was not obliged to check if the accounts were appropriate for Mrs As 
circumstances.
Co-op was however required to provide Mrs A with important information about the account, 
so she understood what they included and was aware of the important limitations as well.
I dont know what exactly was discussed during each upgrade and downgrade. However, it 
seems that Mrs A was aware how much the accounts cost and was evidently aware of the 
overdraft benefits that they came with. I also note that the first three times Mrs A upgraded to 
the Privilege Premier account, she only held the account for a short period of time before 
downgrading again. This makes me think that Mrs A upgraded to take advantage of a 
specific benefit of the account for a short period of time, before downgrading back to the 
Privilege account again.
I appreciate that Co-op might not have provided Mrs A with all of the important information 
about the account during each and every sale. But Ive not seen anything that makes me 
think that Mrs A wouldve been put off from agreeing to the accounts, had she been given 
more information about them. I say this because, firstly it appears that Mrs A agreed to the 
accounts knowing what they included and largely for the banking benefits that they provided 
(such as better interest rates on savings accounts, reduced interest rates on loans, in 
addition to the overdraft benefits). So I dont think Mrs A being given more information about 
the insurance benefits wouldve put her off from agreeing to the accounts.
I also note that once Mrs A agreed to the accounts, she was sent a letter confirming that her 
account had been upgraded (or downgraded back to a Privilege account)  these letters also 
included a welcome pack for the new account which contained the account terms and 
conditions. And specifically, each of these letters reminded Mrs A to read the travel 
insurance terms and conditions  especially the section regarding exclusions relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
As such, having considered everything that Mrs A and Co-op have provided, Im not able to 
say that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate 
to require Co-op to refund the account fees that Mrs A has paid for the accounts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the packaged accounts that Mrs A 
took out with The Co-operative Bank Plc were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman