DRN-3205570
The complaint
Mrs G has said that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly. Mrs G has said she was accepted for an unsecured personal loan, when 
Everyday should have known this wouldnt be affordable for her.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs G applied for a loan with Everyday. Mrs G said she was looking to lend 
a lower amount  around £6,000, but Everyday said it could lend her £10,000. So, she 
applied for this. Everyday agreed to lend the £10,000 Mrs G asked for. The loan agreement 
was for a period of 60 months  with Mrs G due to pay back £21,868.80 by the end of the 
term. The monthly payment towards the loan was £364.48, and the APR of the loan was 
43.8%.
Mrs G feels Everyday did the wrong thing in lending to her. Shes explained that at the time 
she applied for the loan her finances were unstable, and she was in a vulnerable situation. 
Mrs G said she was using regularly using payday lenders, living in her overdraft and only 
making the minimum payments on her credit cards. Mrs G said she had a high level of 
borrowing and was dealing with an addiction to gambling. And that if Everyday had 
considered her circumstances further it would have known it shouldnt lend to her.
As Mrs G was unhappy, she raised a complaint with Everyday. It looked into this, and 
responded to Mrs G. It said that the checks it completed when lending to Mrs G were 
reasonable and proportionate. It said that it believed Mrs G would have been able to make 
the loan repayments, without undue difficulty during the life of the loan, based on those 
checks.
Mrs G remained dissatisfied with Everydays response. And so, she referred her complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that 
Everyday did complete a number of checks on Mrs Gs income and expenditure, as well as 
her credit history. But that there was information these checks provided that were 
concerning. For example, he noted that the checks showed that Mrs G had 12 open credit 
accounts, with eight of these being open in the last three months. He also noted that 
Everyday had been told that some recent payday lending borrowed was for car insurance  
suggesting that Mrs G was relying on credit to keep up with day-to-day living costs.
Our investigator noted other concerns, such as a high increase in lending, the bank 
statement Everyday considered not being up to the date of the lending, and the credit check 
showed Mrs G had other current accounts, which were sitting in their overdraft. He 
considered that these concerns should have led to further checks  which he thought would 
have shown that lending would not be responsible in the circumstances, for example 
because of a large amount of gambling transactions he had seen on other bank statements.
Everyday didnt agree. It said:
Mrs G had a monthly income of around £3,000 a month, plus an income from a 
second property, which was providing her with £380 a month. 
The reason Mrs Gs credit had increased in the previous three months before taking 
the loan with Everyday was because she had taken out a hire purchase agreement 
for £22,314.
Mrs G was taking out the Everyday loan to consolidate two of her credit cards with 
the largest amount owing on them  meaning she would be £217 better off each 
month than she had been before taking the loan.
It couldnt see Mrs G had 12 open account prior to the loan  it could see settled 
Payday loans prior to the account with Everyday being opened. And that at the time 
of the lending Mrs G only had two payday loans outstanding  which she had said 
was for her car insurance.
Mrs G was aware of what she was taking it and must take some responsibility for 
this. It thought Mrs G was fully aware of her finances at the time of the lending, and 
how this was being spent.
The bank statement Mrs G provided didnt show gambling transactions.
Because Everyday disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Its important to highlight when coming to my decision Ive taken into account the relevant 
law, rules and guidance in relation to concerns about irresponsible lending. And, Ive needed 
to consider the below issues:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks, to satisfy itself that Mrs 
G would be able to make repayment of the loan in a sustainable way?
If Everyday did complete the above  was a fair decision made, in respect of whether 
to lend to Mrs G?
It Everyday didnt complete the above  would reasonable and proportionate checks 
have shown Mrs G would have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G in any other way?
Ive done this in relation to the loan provided to Mrs G in August 2019.
Reasonable and proportionate checks?
In August 2019, Everyday was required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether 
Mrs G could afford to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. And when carrying 
out checks to make sure this was the case, the checks had to be borrower focused. So, this 
means Everyday had to consider the impact the lending would have on Mrs G  not just how 
likely it was that Everyday would receive its money back by the end of the term.
As above, Everyday also had to make sure the checks were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan. Whether a check is proportionate will depend on the 
circumstances of the loan. So, checks could include a number of things, including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g their financial history, current 
situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount/type/cost of credit they were seeking.
Mrs G was borrowing over five years, and based on the APR rate for the loan, would be 
repaying over double the amount shed borrowed. So, the checks Everyday completed 
needed to assure itself that Mrs G could make the repayment of £364.68 for this period of 
time.
So, Ive considered this in relation to the loan agreed in August 2019. To do this, Ive looked 
at what checks Everyday completed, and what information it gathered at the time of lending, 
to see whether the checks it made were proportionate enough for Everyday to be confident 
the lending would be sustainable for Mrs G.
And having done this, Im not satisfied Everyday completed proportionate checks, before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs G in this instance.
Ive seen what Everyday considered when thinking about Mrs Gs income at the time. It had 
details of Mrs Gs occupation, and where she worked. And Everyday did call the place where 
Mrs G was employed to check she worked there. In addition to this, Everyday used standard 
industry tools, which look to see whether any disclosed income is consistent with financial 
data held on the consumer. And it was. The information came back noting Mrs Gs income of 
around £3,545 a month. 
Everyday had seen a bank statement noting Mrs Gs income from her job in August 2019 
was £3,165, and it says it was told Mrs G had a second income from another property she 
had  which was £380. I cant see this second income was verified through bank statements 
for example. But its consistent with what the above financial data showed. Given the above, 
Im satisfied Everyday took reasonable steps to understand Mrs Gs income.
In terms of expenditure  I dont think Everyday did enough. Everyday did use Office of 
National Statistics data, as well information as what Mrs G said her rent was, to calculate her 
living expenses. And it did complete a search of the credit she had outstanding. But I think 
the level of credit was concerning and given this level of credit I think more should have 
been done to verifying Mrs Gs living expenses, as well as whether she was overextended in 
terms of the amount of credit she already had.
Everyday reviewed one bank statement prior to agreeing the loan. This statement showed 
Mrs G was making use of payday loans. Everyday asked Mrs G about this, and she 
explained this was for a car insurance payment. I think this suggests potential reliance on 
short term, high interest loans for some living expenses  and given Mrs Gs income should 
have been enough to cover her living expenses, but clearly wasnt doing this, I think this 
should have led Everyday to ask for further information on Mrs Gs living expenses.
In addition to the above, the bank statement showed that Mrs G took out a payday loan with 
one provider, paid it off, and then took a borrowing with the same provider again, in the 
same month. And this was the case with two lenders. 
The affordability check Everyday carried out showed Mrs G had used 84% of her total credit 
limit  over six credit cards. In addition to this, she had significant other borrowing, aside 
from her mortgage and car finance. Mrs Gs total monthly payments, excluding the two credit 
cards she was due to consolidate, were a significant proportion of her monthly income. This 
included owing funds for some loans, mail order accounts, and an additional current account 
to the one she provided a bank statement for, showing she was in her overdraft on that 
account, by £2,499. I think the above information the checks Everyday raised significant concerns that Mrs G 
could make repayments for the loan she was applying for sustainably. And based on this 
information alone, I dont think Everyday came to a fair decision to lend  and acted 
irresponsibly on accepting the loan solely on the information it had.
Given the above, I dont think Everyday made a fair decision to lend. And I dont think its 
checks were proportionate in the circumstances. It should have asked for more information if 
it wanted to consider lending to Mrs G.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown Mrs G would have been able to 
make repayments in a sustainable way?
I think the checks Everyday completed already showed significant concerns in lending to 
Mrs G. And it shouldnt have done so, based on the information it had. But Ive also thought 
about whether, if more proportionate checks were carried out, this would have shown Mrs G 
could make the repayments in a sustainable way. And I dont the checks would have shown 
this.
I appreciate that different checks may show different things. But Mrs G has provided bank 
statements for the other current account she had. At the point of applying for a loan with 
Everyday this overdraft was almost exhausted. And there was no action on the account in 
the few months prior to the loan  it sat in its overdraft. Based on what Ive seen, if more 
proportionate checks were carried out into Mrs Gs finance I dont think these would have 
provided any reassurance that Mrs G could in fact repay the loan sustainably. And therefore, 
the funds shouldnt have been lent.
 
Mrs G has also said she was struggling with a gambling addiction at the point she was 
applying for the loan. Ive seen on Mrs Gs current account (the one Everyday didnt review) 
that Mrs G spent significant amounts on gambling just before taking out the loan. For 
example, on 19 August 2019, when Mrs G spent £500 on gambling websites in one day. It 
isnt clear that Everyday would have seen the extent of Mrs Gs gambling if it had completed 
further checks. But, as above, Everyday should have seen that Mrs G was at risk of not 
being able to repay the loan sustainably as a result of the issues the checks did show. 
Was a fair decision made?
Overall, I dont think Everyday made a fair decision to lend to Mrs G on this occasion.
The information Everyday did gather showed significant concerns with Mrs Gs ability to 
manage further credit. And proportionate checks werent completed to satisfy Everyday that 
Mrs G could pay back a further loan in a sustainable way. If Everyday had considered the 
information it did gather fairly, and had asked further questions, Im satisfied it ought not to 
have made the decision to lend. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I think its fair that Mrs G 
repay the principal amount she borrowed. But Mrs G has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to her. So, I require Everyday Lending Limited to:
Remove all interest and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mrs G 
made as payment towards the capital.If reworking Mrs Gs loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they would 
have arisen to the date of settlement*
If reworking Mrs Gs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Everyday should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs G for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file in relation to the 
second loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday should 
give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman