DRN-2361642
The complaint
Mr M complained that Vanquis Bank Limited defaulted his account when he was still trying to
set up a payment plan.
What happened
Mr M originally complained about charges applied to his credit card account by Vanquis. Our
service dealt with that issue separately. This complaint is that Mr M repeatedly asked
Vanquis to set up a payment plan for him, and it was never set up. Vanquis has now
defaulted the debt and sold it to a debt collection agency. Mr M wanted the default removed
from his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr M spoke to Vanquis
in September 2019, and said he would call back another time to respond to questions
Vanquis had about his income and expenditure forms. But our investigator couldnt see that
hed done this. In December 2019, after the debt had been passed to a debt collection
agency, Mr M spoke to Vanquis again. Vanquis needed some more information to set up a
plan, but Mr M had to end the call, so a call back was arranged. Vanquis did call, but didnt
get through, so it wrote. After this, our investigator couldnt see Mr M had contacted Vanquis
to set up that plan.
Our investigator thought Vanquis had tried to set up a plan for Mr M. Because it hadnt
managed to do that, and charges and interest were being added to the balance, and also
because Mr M hadnt paid Vanquis for a considerable period of time, our investigator didnt
think it was unfair for Vanquis to issue a notice of default.
Our investigator didnt think Vanquis had agreed that Mr M didnt need to make payments
while his complaint was on going. So he didnt think it was unfair for Vanquis to try to get the
money back, including by contacting a debt agency.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he completed three income and expenditure checks with Vanquis
in August. And this was the first time hed asked the company for help as all previous
payments were made to it. He was disappointed in what our investigator had said, and he 
wanted an ombudsman to consider his case. This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Mr M had previously complained, and he told Vanquis in August he wouldnt make 
his payments until that was sorted out. Vanquis didnt agree to that then. I havent 
seen any other evidence that Vanquis agreed to this. It doesnt have to.
I can see that Mr M last made a payment onto this card on 24 May 2019.
Mr M said he completed three income and expenditure checks with Vanquis in 
August. But a call he had with Vanquis in September makes clear that Vanquis 
needed to discuss this with him. Mr M said he didnt have time, he would call back.
Mr M doesnt seem to have called back then. Vanquis tried to contact Mr M, and Ive 
listened to calls it had with him in December, when it was still trying to set up a 
payment plan with him. It got part way through that on a call, and Mr M had to end 
the call. Vanquis did call him back at the time hed requested, but he didnt answer. It 
then wrote and rang again, but Mr M didnt respond to its attempts to contact him 
after this.
I think it was primarily Mr Ms responsibility to contact Vanquis, if he wanted to set a 
payment plan up, and to do so when he had time to complete a longer call. Like our 
investigator, I dont think its Vanquiss fault that a payment plan wasnt set up.
Vanquis issued a Notice of Default on 20 September 2019. That gave Mr M until 9 
October to pay the required amount, and if he didnt do so, he was warned his 
account could be defaulted. Mr M said his account has since been defaulted, but it 
hadnt been, when he spoke to Vanquis on 7 December 2019.
I asked Vanquis about this, and it said Mr Ms account defaulted on 31 January 2020. 
It said that was four months after the Notice of Default was issued. Vanquis said this 
follows FCA guidelines of a default being applied within three to six months.
I think that its relevant to consider the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, which were drawn up by 
the credit industry in collaboration with the Information Commissioners Office. Those 
principles say that as a general guide, a default may be registered on someones 
credit file once they are 3 months in arrears, and this would normally be done by the 
time someone is 6 months in arrears.
So whats important in deciding when a default should be issued is how far behind 
someone is in their payments. Not when a Notice of Default was posted to them.
Mr M last paid onto his credit card on 24 May 2019. Thats just under five months 
before 9 October, the date Vanquis said a default might be registered on his account. 
Because of the length of time it had been since Mr M made a payment, I think his 
account shouldve been defaulted then.
I think Vanquis should amend Mr Ms date of default now, to 9 October 2020. That 
may seem to offer little benefit to Mr M now, but it will ensure this default is removed 
from his credit file almost four months earlier.
I also asked Vanquis about the interest and charges that were applied to Mr Ms 
account after this. It said that it was satisfied that the interest and charges were 
applied correctly. But because I think that Mr Ms account shouldve been defaulted 
in early October, I dont think that Mr M shouldve been charged further interest and 
fees on 3 November, of £21.77. 
I would have asked Vanquis to use this money to reduce Mr Ms debt, but Vanquis 
tells me this account has been sold, which may mean Vanquis cant use this money 
to reduce Mr Ms debt. So I think it should pay this money to Mr M instead.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Vanquis said it had nothing to add. Mr M replied to disagree. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said he was disappointed. He told us he had made regular payments to Vanquis for 
over 3 years. He sent a complaint to Vanquis in May 2019 which he said Vanquis ignored. 
Mr M told us his circumstances had changed temporarily, and hed filled out three income 
and expenditure checks using Vanquis website. Hed also told Vanquis that he could make 
repayments of £40 per month from the end of January. But Vanquis then sold the debt and 
defaulted the account. 
Mr M said this had caused him stress and anxiety. He thought a payment plan couldve 
saved all this stress. And Mr M said hed been heavily punished as a default will stay on his 
credit file for six years. He felt that Vanquis had a responsibility in August 2019 to contact 
him further as his complaint was never resolved.
Mr M said I should ask for a copy of the income and expenditure plans hed done, so I could 
see that it would show he had minus £8 per month. He said 2019 was a massive struggle for 
him in having to support his family, and every other company made payment plans available.
I dont think Vanquis was refusing to make a payment plan available for Mr M. It wanted to 
talk to him first, before it set that up. If Mr Ms income and expenditure shows that he had no 
spare income at all, then I can understand why Vanquis wouldnt just set up a plan. It would 
need to make sure that Mr M could actually afford the payments he was offering to make. 
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought Vanquis had done enough to try to contact 
Mr M. It made a number of efforts to get in touch with him, and it didnt default his account 
without warning. So I havent changed my mind. 
I still dont think that Vanquis needs to remove the default from Mr Ms credit file entirely. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited must amend the date of default on Mr Ms 
credit file to 9 October 2019. And it should also pay Mr M £21.77.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman