DRN-3482358
The complaint
Mr G complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) quoted an unfair 
premium to add an additional driver to his motor insurance cover.
What happened
Mr G had a comprehensive insurance policy for his car, which cost him £1,188 for the cover. 
When Mr Gs wife obtained her full UK drivers licence he asked for her to be added to the 
policy as an additional driver and he was quoted a cost of £915.
Mr G thought this was staggering so raised a complaint with Admiral. He said Admiral had 
categorised his wife as not an experienced driver. He said he explained to Admiral that she 
wasnt a novice driver and had driven with a licence in a foreign country for over ten years as 
well as driving a rental car in the UK using a foreign licence for 12 months. He thought the 
costs were too high when he compared it to his own cost of cover based on his own relative 
short driving experience  which was just over two years more than his wife on a UK licence.
Admiral said when setting its premiums, it doesnt consider driving experience abroad. It said 
the additional amount quoted represents the change in risk from changing from a 
provisional to a full licence. Our statistics show drivers holding a new full licence are more 
likely to have an accident, incident or claim than those holding a provisional licence. There 
could be many reasons for this. For example, as a provisional licence holder you always 
have an experienced driver coaching and watching you while you drive. When you pass your 
test, you are solely responsible for the car you are driving. In addition, you can drive on all 
road types, and other roads you may not be familiar with. The extra premium for amending 
the licence is a true reflection of the increased risk we take as an insurance company.
   
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Admiral had acted 
consistently with what it set out in its underwriting criteria and its premium had been 
calculated correctly. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pricing for insurance policies are commercial decisions which quite rightly are at the 
discretion of the insurer. Admiral have assessed the risk factors that are at play and offered 
the policy at a premium that it feels is fair based on the level of risk it is taking. Insurers that 
offer good cover and a good service at a competitive price are likely to be more successful at 
securing customers.
However, Im mindful that Mr G sought to add his wife to his policy mid-term as a named 
driver on a full licence after his wife passed her test. Previously, she was a named driver on 
the policy as a provisional licence holder. Therefore, Mr G may have felt limited on how he 
could get his wife covered until the end of his current term.
In considering this complaint, I have considered whether the premium Mr G has been quoted 
for adding his wife to the policy with a full licence is the same as any other customer 
wouldve charged by Admiral if they had similar circumstances. If Admiral has quoted the 
same price that it wouldve charged other customers in the same position, then I would say 
theyve acted fairly.
Mr G explained in some detail the experience his wife had at driving abroad and in the UK. 
However, Admiral has explained to Mr G that it doesnt consider driving abroad as 
experience when it comes to providing insurance cover in the UK. It has explained how it 
thinks the risk of someone driving on a full licence is much higher than that of someone 
driving on a provisional licence. Its up to Admiral how it weighs up these risks, but I think it 
has been reasonable in explaining this to Mr G.
These risks or rules on how Admiral sets its prices is set out in its underwriting criteria. I 
cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but rest assured Ive checked it carefully. I 
want to make sure Admiral has treated Mr G the same as it would with any other customer 
when it quoted a price for adding his wife to his policy.
I can see the additional premium Admiral has quoted is consistent with its underwriting 
criteria. Therefore, Im happy it wouldve charged the same price to any other customer who 
had similar circumstances to Mr G and his wife. Therefore, I think Admiral has been fair. 
Admiral has demonstrated how the cost of cover would fall significantly for Mr Gs wife as 
her UK experience on a full licence increases. This is what I wouldve expected.
Admiral recognised that Mr G may have felt limited in his options to get insurance cover for 
his wife and may have felt that he couldve got a better deal with another insurer. Admiral 
said If you do decide to take alternate insurance, please contact our Customer Loyalty 
Department before this date to request the cancellation of your policy. Normally if you cancel 
your policy mid-term, we will charge a cancellation fee of £55.00. However, under the 
circumstances I have noted your policy to ensure this is waived should you decide to 
cancel. I think Admiral has taken a reasonable and pragmatic approach. Admiral have 
removed any hurdles, so Mr G could cancel his policy and move elsewhere if he could find a 
better deal. I think this was fair, so as I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman