DRN-3090438
The complaint
 The executors of Mrs Ns estate have appointed two of Mrs Ns nieces (Mrs B and Mrs S) to
complain on behalf of the estate. They are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC refuses to refund
a number of payments which, they say, Mrs N did not authorise.
What happened
 The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to all the parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail. But, in summary, Mrs B and Mrs S think Lloyds should refund:
Transactions made between 7 December 2009 and mid-March 2011 totalling £47,194 
and authorised using Mrs Ns debit card.
25 payments made by cheque between 17 June 2010 and 5 April 2014, totalling 
£27,600.
Mrs B and Mrs S say Mrs N was elderly, vulnerable and being abused and/or controlled by 
her long-standing neighbours and/or their sons. They think Lloyds ought to have done more 
to protect Mrs N. Lloyds initially disagreed, but paid £125 into Mrs Ns bank account by way 
of compensation for its delay investigating her complaint.
Following our intervention, Lloyds agreed to refund (with interest) the following 14 disputed 
cheques because the signatures differed noticeable from Mrs Ns: 
Date Amount
21/08/2010 £3,800
29/02/2012 £1,000
19/03/2012 £600
01/05/2012 £1,000
26/06/2012 £1,100
25/10/2012 £1,000
31/05/2013 £1,000
16/12/2013 £1,000
25/01/2014 £1,000
14/02/2014 £500
24/02/2014 £1,000
10/03/2014 £500
28/03/2014 £1,000
05/04/2014 £250
Mrs B and Mrs S didnt agree this was adequate compensation, so the complaint came to 
me. I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 setting out why I didnt think I could fairly 
tell Lloyds to pay anything more that it had already agreed to pay (the value of the 14 
cheques, plus interest). I said, in summary, the following:
My previously decision had been somewhat difficult to make. The events in question dated 
back to 2009 and, as a result, the banks records werent as complete as they might have 
been if Id been dealing with a complaint about more recent events. Id also had to rely 
largely on third parties (which included a firm of solicitors, Mrs Ns brother who is now 
deceased and Mrs Ns two nieces) to tell us what happened rather than having Mrs Ns own 
recollections. And those third parties had told us they didnt have had a close relationship or 
regular interaction with Mrs N at the time the events transpired. I said this not as a criticism, 
but merely to point out there were some gaps in our understanding of Mrs Ns 
circumstances. With all of this in mind, I based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, on what I considered most likely to have happened, in the light of the available 
evidence.
When reaching my decision and considering what was fair and reasonable, Id taken into 
account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I considered to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time. 
The guidance and best practice available to banks when the events in question transpired 
about how to support potentially vulnerable customers and how to spot and help protect 
customers from fraud were far more limited than they are today. But the broad principle, to 
pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them fairly, existed. The Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) were also in place and related specifically to the cash 
withdrawals (which I thought were likely facilitated using Mrs Ns debit card and PIN) and 
debit card payments. The PSRs didnt specifically cover cheque payments but, in some 
circumstances, we wouldnt usually expect a bank to pay a cheque and that generally 
included if the signature didnt match the one held on the customers file. I also noted this 
provision may well have been set out specifically in Mrs Ns account terms and conditions 
too and I encouraged the bank to provide a copy of that historic document in response to my 
provisional decision. 
So, in broad terms, banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that 
customers authorise them to make, in accordance with the PSRs and the terms and 
conditions of the account. But the PSRs also require banks to award a refund if their 
customer didnt make or authorise a payment themselves  this, arguably, also applies to 
cheques that the consumer didnt authorise. So, when we look at whether a bank has acted 
fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer consented to (and, thereby, authorised) the disputed transaction. And consent 
includes making the transaction themselves or allowing the transaction to be made by 
someone else.
I also noted, given the particular circumstances of this complaint, that being pressured or 
coerced into giving consent doesnt necessarily mean that consent wasnt given. But, if the 
evidence suggests that is what happened and we thought the bank was, or ought to have 
been, on notice of the situation then we might still think it appropriate to award a refund. I 
took all of the above into account when making my decision as well as the following:
Mrs B and Mrs S said Mrs N was in poor health and vulnerable and the bank ought to 
have recognised this and done more to help her. I thought it likely Mrs Ns age was 
recorded on her records and I noted she was 80 in 2009. But there was nothing in the 
banks records pre-2011 that otherwise indicated it knew, or ought to have known (from 
her age alone), that Mrs N needed additional support. I was also aware Mrs N had no 
formal carers at that time and no power of attorney or third-party mandate set up on her 
account in order to give anyone else access or permission to manage, or help her 
manage, her financial affairs. In fact it was not until June 2015 that Mrs N signed a 
lasting power of attorney certificate, appointing members of her family to make decisions on her behalf about her property and financial affairs. And, despite what Mrs B and 
Mrs S had said about Mrs Ns capacity at that time (and previously), she appointed the 
attorneys herself and her close friend witnessed the completion of the appointment, 
confirming Mrs N had capacity to do so. Mrs N also completed a new will in April 2016 
which was witnessed by the same solicitors who are now acting as the executors of her 
estate.
Mrs N was alive when her complaint was raised with Lloyds and this service in 2018. But 
Mrs B had told us it was she who identified the disputed transactions, seemingly without 
any direct input from Mrs N. And Mrs B and the other representatives had little or no 
contact with Mr N around the time of the events. It wasnt entirely clear to me how Mrs B 
and Mrs S identified that the abuse they say Mrs N was suffering started in December 
2009. It seemed this date might have been selected simply because the solicitors who 
were involved with the complaint back in April 2018 asked for copies of the account 
statements for the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2015 and transactions from 
the tail end of December 2009 just happened to be included when the bank responded. 
The date range apparently linked in with copies of some cheques the solicitor had 
already acquired, but there had been no other specific mention of how long the 
neighbours had been supporting Mrs N or when the abuse may have started. Mrs Bs, 
Mrs Ss, the solicitors and other family members participation in this complaint had 
been, I was sure, well-intentioned. But their submissions seemed largely based on 
assumption and that made it somewhat difficult for me to take everything theyd said on 
face value.
Mrs B and Mrs S suggested that, even after the police became involved in 2014, Mrs N 
had difficulty accepting the suggestion that her neighbours had taken advantage of her. 
And it seemed possible that might be why a prosecution was not pursued  we were told 
Mrs N was considered an unreliable witness. Mrs B and Mrs S had offered to obtain the 
statement Mrs N completed for the police around that time and I said they could provide 
it in response to my provisional decision. But I thought it fair to reach my provisional 
decision without that piece of evidence given the time Mrs B and Mrs S had already had 
to supply evidence. And because, given what theyd said about Mrs Ns state of mind at 
the time, I wasnt convinced the statement would support what theyd said about the 
neighbours abusing Mrs N. I also noted that, even if the statement did support their 
version of events there was also the possibility that what Mrs N said in the statement 
reflected what she was being told by the police and her family in 2014/15. Rather than 
accurately reflecting what Mrs N thought at the time the events took place. Moreover, by 
the time the statement was completed, I thought it was possible Mrs N may have felt 
embarrassed about, or regretted, having let the neighbours be involved with her finances 
and/or having given them money. And I had to consider the possibility that she was 
happy with the arrangement at the time, given they were almost the only people who 
were supporting her around that time. 
In June 2010 the banks records said Mrs N called asking for a review of her account and 
she couldnt come into branch. But she ended up going into branch later that day  this 
suggested to me that she wasnt housebound at that point in time. The notes made after 
the branch visit say Mrs N was confused and unsure of the transactions on her account. 
She transferred some money from her savings to clear her overdrawn balance but did 
not want to investigate further seemingly because card and PIN given to other people 
to use as she is not always able to get to branch. I didnt think this supported Mrs B and 
Mrs Ss suggestion that Mrs N was generally confused, unable to manage her finances 
and too scared of her neighbours to report mis-use of her account and/or that she was 
being abused financially. I thought it more likely Mrs N was simply confused about some 
of the transactions, perhaps because she hadnt been keeping a close eye on her 
account. And because, as the notes went on to say, shed given her card and PIN to someone else. I couldnt ignore that shed proactively got in touch with the bank to query 
this further and I saw no reason why, having done that, she couldnt also have flagged 
any concerns she had about specific transactions and/or mentioned if she thought 
someone was taking advantage of her or using her account against her wishes. I did 
have some concerns because the banks brief notes didnt confirm it had warned Mrs N 
against allowing a third parry to use her debit card. I said that because the PSRs talk 
about consumers obligations to keep personalised security features (like debit cards and 
PINs) safe. And I assumed the terms and conditions that applied to Mrs Ns account at 
the time did the same. But the notes dont suggest Mrs N had given away her card 
permanently so taking further action, such as cancelling the existing card and ordering a 
new PIN, might have caused unnecessary inconvenience to Mrs N. I also didnt think the 
bank ought to have instigated a fraud investigation at that stage  the notes indicate 
Mrs N did not want to do so and without her input there was little more the bank could 
do, or ought to have done, at that time. 
By 18 January 2011 Mrs Ns account had gone overdrawn again and the banks notes 
say she called and transferred £5,000 into the account. The notes didnt suggest Mrs N 
raised any concerns during that call. On 17 March 2011 the banks notes say Mrs N 
called to say she was housebound and someone had been making withdrawals from her 
account. Her debit card was stopped and I thought that clearly indicated Mrs N had 
withdrawn her consent for anyone else to use her card from that point on (and her 
representatives disputed no debit card payments after that date). It also seemed clear 
she had a conversation about some unrecognised direct debit payments (specific 
recipients were named in the banks notes) and almost £820 of direct debit refunds were 
awarded later that month. Mrs B and Mrs S had said the bank ought to have done more 
at that point and Mrs N may have been too scared to report any other disputed 
payments. But, again, Id had some difficulty accepting this suggestion. That was the 
second time Mrs N had contacted the bank proactively and, that time, pointed out some 
specific transactions she didnt recognise. Given she was capable of doing that  despite 
any duress being applied by a third party  I had difficulty accepting she would not also 
have been able to identify and tell the bank if she had concerns about the other 
transactions that had subsequently been disputed by her relatives. It also seemed that 
the bank wrote to Mrs N on 25 and 30 March 2011. The banks notes about that 
correspondence were limited, but mention one of the direct debits. So it seemed likely 
those letters did concern the disputed payments and they may also have given additional 
information about what Mrs N could do if she wanted additional help, other than 
refunding the direct debits. Unfortunately, the bank hadnt been able to provide copies of 
the letters, but that doesnt surprise me, given the time thatd passed. There were no 
further references in the banks notes about Mrs N personally getting in touch about any 
disputed transactions. 
On 6 March 2014 the banks notes say the police got in touch to query some 
transactions after Mrs Ns brother raised concerns. There was nothing in the banks 
records which showed what Mrs N thought about the situation.
On 9 June 2014 the banks notes said Mrs Ns brother called trying to get hold of a 
member of branch staff, having been advised to do so by the police. But the bank noted 
there had been an increase in that type of call which actually turned out to be fraudsters 
phishing for information about customers. And there was no authority linked to Mrs N 
account which allowed it to discuss things with her brother. So the bank advised the 
caller to speak again with the police and/or get Mrs N to call if she wanted to report 
fraud. That seemed reasonable to me and there was nothing which suggests Mrs N did 
subsequently get in touch. The next contact was in early-October 2015 when Mrs Ns 
brother registered the lasting power of attorney. Mrs N appointed the attorneys herself 
yet at no time personally disputed any transactions other than the direct debit payments. Mrs B and Mrs S had suggested that the way Mrs Ns account was being used from 
early-December 2009 was so unusual or out of character that the bank ought to have 
proactively queried this with her. Id seen Mrs Ns account statements dating back to 
2008 and, while the cash withdrawals and debit card payments were fewer in number 
and lower in value then, I could see quite a number of high value cheque payments 
throughout that year. But, even if Id thought the account activity ought to have prompted 
additional queries from the bank, I wasnt persuaded this would likely have made a 
difference. I said this because Mrs N didnt flag many transactions when she contacted 
the bank in 2010 and 2011. But also because Mrs B and Mrs S had said she trusted her 
neighbours and thought they were helping her. In the circumstances I thought it more 
likely than not Mrs N would have reassured the bank that everything was under control if 
it had proactively flagged any concerns with her. 
The disputed cheques were all ones that were paid to members of the family who Mrs B 
and Mrs S said was abusing, or taking unfair advantage of, Mrs N. I agreed with the 
investigator that 14 of those cheques should not have been paid by the bank because 
the signatures on them probably didnt match the one held on Mrs Ns account records. I 
couldnt be more definite about that because Im not a handwriting expert and, perhaps 
more importantly, Id relied on the signature samples Mrs B and Mrs S had provided 
because the bank has been unable to supply a copy of the account mandate which 
should have included Mrs Ns sample signature. On the other hand, I thought 9 of the 
cheques included a signature which bore a close resemblance to the samples wed been 
given. And I thought it more likely than not Mrs N did sign those cheques, thereby giving 
consent to the payments. 
Cheques comes in books with each cheque having a sequential number. Not all the 
cheques that were paid after December 2009 had been disputed, so the disputed ones 
were interspersed with genuine cheque payments. Some of the genuine cheque 
payments also seemed to have been cashed in branch, which I thought might suggest 
Mrs N cashed them herself. And there were some large value, undisputed cheques 
which were not that dissimilar to the amounts being disputed. I thought that might just 
highlight an inconsistency in Mrs B and Mrs Ss knowledge of what was going on. But it 
might, equally, have suggested that, on the whole, Mrs N had control of her chequebook 
and was happy for the payments to be made either to the neighbours family members or 
to other recipients.
I couldnt know for sure if Mrs N authorised someone else to use her debit card, but I was 
able to make a decision based on the balance of probabilities. It seemed clear there were 
other parties who, at times, had possession of Mrs Ns card so knew all the details as well as 
her PIN. So I accepted there probably were individual transactions carried out via Mrs Ns 
debit card which she didnt individually authorise. But looking at all the evidence, overall, I 
thought Mrs N more likely than not gave her consent for all of the debit card transactions that 
her family members had subsequently disputed and all but the 14 cheques which the bank 
had already agreed to refund. 
Mrs B and Mrs didnt accept my provisional findings. They provided some background 
information about Mrs N including about her physical and mental health, the familys 
relationship with her and how her relationship with her neighbours developed. They also 
said, in summary, that:
A lot of the provisional decision was based on assumption and there is an unfair 
suggestion that Mrs N may have been coerced by her family when writing the police 
statement.The bank increased Mrs Ns overdraft facility from £100 to £1,000 in May 2010. Instead it 
ought to have reviewed the historic account activity and queried the out of character 
transactions.
The banks notes dated 17 March 2011 say Mrs N got in touch to say she was 
housebound, had not been making withdrawals and wanted her debit card to be stopped. 
And this is the same date that a large cash withdrawal was made. Yet the bank did 
nothing at this point to investigate the matter further.
Its not fair to make a final decision without the polices file. The file might contain other 
forged cheques as well as statements from other people as well as Mrs N, which may 
help shed light on the events. This might include Mrs Ns close friend who collected her 
pension for her and who first reported concerns to the police. 
They are concerned about the wider implications this particular case identified. The 
police have said they think Mrs N was the victim of a crime and Lloyds failed to prevent a 
vulnerable person from being abused. If the bank isnt held to account, the same thing 
could happen to other customers.
Lloyds made no submissions in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I still agree with my ombudsman colleagues finding  which Lloyds has 
also accepted  that we are able to review all of the transactions that have been disputed. 
And Ive not been persuaded to deviate from the overall findings set out in my provisional 
decision and summarised above.
It was not my intention to accuse Mrs Ns family of failing to take appropriate care of Mrs N 
or of coercing her. I simply wanted to set out the difficulties Ive faced reaching a decision 
with incomplete evidence and submissions from people who were not close to Mrs N at the 
time the events in question transpired. I did have to make some assumptions when reaching 
my decision, but I explained why that was necessary given the absence of direct, 
contemporaneous testimony from Mrs N and other evidence, given the time that has passed. 
Ive thought carefully about whether to wait for further evidence from the police before 
making my final decision. And, when doing so, Ive taken into account the two pages of the 
polices incident log that were provided in response to my provisional decision. These two 
pages are heavily redacted and I dont think they show what Mrs B and Mrs S have 
suggested. The sections I can read refer to family members having raised concerns about 
transactions but I dont think they say the police consider a crime has been committed or 
how long this might have been going on for. And I suspect that if the police do decide to 
share additional documents that they might, similarly, be heavily redacted. Thats not to say 
Im ruling out the possibility that someone might, at some point, have taken advantage of 
Mrs N. But the evidence about this is not sufficient for me to say which of the disputed 
transactions  other than the 14 cheques  were not authorised by Mrs N such that I can 
fairly instruct Lloyds to refund them. In the circumstances, and given what I said in my 
provisional decision, I think it is fair and reasonable to make my final decision without the 
polices file.Mrs B and Mrs S referenced the 17 March 2011 customer note in their response. But I had 
considered this and mentioned it specifically in my provisional decision. I wont repeat 
myself, save to say that I think its clear Mrs N revoked her consent on that date and the 
bank did undertake some investigation which resulted in the refund of £820 worth of direct 
debit payments. I still think, if Mrs N was unhappy with any of the other payments, that she 
could have queried this at the time. And, if she had, I think its likely the bank would have 
investigated further, in the same way it did with the direct debit payments. 
The banks note dont explain why Mrs Ns overdraft limit was increased from £100 to £450 
in April 2010 and then to £1,000 the following month. But, as I said in my provisional 
decision, discussions did take place in June 2010 after Mr N contacted the bank. And I 
remain satisfied Mrs N didnt specifically dispute any transactions at that time.
Mrs B and Mrs S query whether Lloyds has copies of other cheques. But the ones Ive seen 
were provided by Mrs B and Mrs S and Lloyds says it has no other copies. That doesnt 
surprise me, given the time thats passed. And, for the reason given above and in my 
provisional decision I dont agree the bank should refund all the cheques that have been 
disputed.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay a sum equal to the 14 unauthorised cheques.
Pay 8% per year simple interest calculated from the date each cheque was paid to 
the date of settlement*.
*If Lloyds considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it should tell the executors of Ms Ns estate how much its deducted. It should also 
provide a certificate showing this, if the executors ask for one, so that they can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors of 
Mrs Ns estate to accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman