DRN-3733097
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service provided by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). During 
the course of events, Mr M has raised several concerns over a period of time and it has 
been agreed that under this complaint reference at our service the following matters will be 
considered in this decision:
Mr Ms closed Lloyds credit card account continued to show on his internet banking 
profile;
Mr Ms credit score reduced after he unsuccessfully enquired online about whether he 
could get a Lloyds personal loan;
Lloyds stopped a debit card payment from leaving Mr and Mrs Ms current account.
Mr and Mrs M have also referred two other complaints at the same time. They concern an 
incorrectly addressed Lloyds account statement and the refund Mr M received after he 
cancelled his Lloyds branded car insurance policy. These complaints are being considered 
as separate cases and I will not deal with those matters as part of this decision.
Mr and Mrs M held a joint current account with Lloyds and as part of this complaint concerns 
a debit card payment from that account, they are both joined in bringing this complaint. But I 
have noted that parts of the overall complaint concern Mr M only and that it was Mr M alone 
who brought the complaints to Lloyds  so for ease, Ill only refer to Mr M going forward.
What happened
Mr M asked Lloyds to close his credit card account and it actioned his request on 5 April 
2022  Mr M had cancelled his direct debit instruction to the account a week earlier. Lloyds 
wrote to Mr M to confirm his account had been closed. Lloyds explained that his credit card 
account could still be accessed online via internet banking for up to a further six months. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M complained and asked for the access to be removed immediately.
Mr M enquired online about getting a Lloyds personal loan to repay another lender and take 
advantage of a lower rate of interest. Lloyds current account holders can get an indication 
online of the likelihood of a personal loan application succeeding via a personalised 
quotation. It is based on the banks existing knowledge about the account holder, gathered 
over the time of their banking relationship. Information on Lloyds website explained to Mr M 
that the quotation would not affect the account holders credit standing. But that a full 
application would involve a credit check, leave a footprint on his credit file and could affect 
his credit score. 
Mr M was told an application was unlikely to succeed but he was offered the opportunity to 
apply all the same. Mr M chose not to go ahead with a full application but he did ask Lloyds 
why his application was unlikely to succeed. Lloyds explained that a combination of his credit 
score and the information (or lack of) available information to the bank from Mr Ms accounts 
were the reasons. Not long after Mr M checked again to see he had become eligible for a 
loan, only to find that his credit score had gone down. So, Mr M complained to Lloyds about 
both the reduction in his credit score, which he believes was a result of his earlier enquiry 
about getting a personal loan, and because the bank hadnt suggested he would qualify for a 
loan.
Mr M attempted to use his debit card to pay for car insurance online on 8 April 2022. The 
transaction failed and shortly after Lloyds sent Mr M a text message asking him to confirm 
whether he had attempted the payment. Mr M confirmed he had and Lloyds removed a block 
it had placed on the payment. Lloyds told Mr M to wait ten minutes before attempting the 
payment again. Mr M tried to make the payment again, but it didnt go through. Mr M 
believed the transaction failed because Lloyds had not properly updated his address. So, he 
went to his local branch  where he had made the request to update his address  to 
complain. 
Unhappy with the responses Mr M got from Lloyds, he brought the complaints to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaints. She concluded that Lloyds had not acted 
outside its terms and conditions or that it had not followed its procedures. She also did not 
think Lloyds has done anything that it was not permitted to do.
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I do not think Mr Ms complaints should be upheld. I realise this 
will be disappointing for him, but Ive set out below why Ive reached these conclusions. 
Credit card account closure
It seems to me Mr Ms complaint is primarily driven by his wish to bring his entire relationship 
with Lloyds to a close, which, of course, is his prerogative. And I appreciate Mr M may have 
had some doubt, given his past experience, as to whether Lloyds had properly closed his 
credit card account whilst it still showed on his internet banking profile. However, Ive seen 
that the account was closed and is no longer showing on his profile, and Ive not seen that 
Lloyds have done anything wrong on this occasion. 
Lloyds has explained in its response to Mr Ms complaint that closed credit card accounts will 
remain visible on its customers internet banking profiles for up to six months after the 
account was closed. It went on to explain that this is to allow customers to continue to have 
access to information about the account after it is closed  for example, to view transactions 
or statements. I think this is reasonable and I note it also wrote to Mr M upon closure of the 
account to set out this position. So, I cannot say Lloyds has acted unfairly towards Mr M or 
treated him differently from any other customer. 
I realise Lloyds process is particularly frustrating for Mr M. And while I note Mr Ms comment 
about the shorter time taken to remove his current account from his internet banking profile, 
Im afraid it is not within my power to investigate an organisations systems and processes  
our service is not the regulator. And for that reason we do not fine or punish businesses. Our 
role is to look at whether something has gone wrong in the individual circumstances of a 
complaint and if it has, to see how we might  as far as is reasonably possible  look to put 
things right. Approval for a personal loan 
Firstly, I need to explain that I do not have the power to tell Lloyds it should have lent to 
Mr M.  Whether a bank agrees to lend or not is a commercial matter, based on a review of 
an applicants circumstances including factors such as income, outgoings, existing levels of 
debt and the banks own internal lending criteria. In this case, Mr M was put off upfront from 
applying because Lloyds website suggested  based on what it already knew about Mr Ms 
circumstances  that it was unlikely to grant him a loan. 
Lloyds online check for personal loan applicants is intended to prevent unsuccessful 
applications having a negative impact on credit ratings. So, I fully understand why Mr M 
would be concerned when his credit score reduced after his enquiry for a Lloyds personal 
loan. However, the matter for me to consider here is whether the fall in Mr Ms credit score 
came as a direct result of his personal loan enquiry.
Lloyds has said that Mr Ms personal loan enquiry was unsuccessful because of the 
information it knew from the way Mr M ran his Lloyds accounts. Whilst Lloyds website 
displayed his credit score at the time of his loan enquiry, this information was provided by a 
third-party credit reference agency. Lloyds says it did not do an actual search of Mr Ms 
credit file. Lloyds suggested Mr M get copies of his credit files from the three main credit 
reference agencies to confirm for himself that it had not logged any searches. Ive not seen 
Mr M did this or that he has provided evidence which contradicts what Lloyds has said about 
not searching his credit file. 
I am aware that Mr Ms personal loan enquiry came at around the same time as he was 
rearranging his finances  for example, he had closed his Lloyds credit card account and 
taken out a new motor insurance policy paid by monthly instalments. These may have had 
an effect on Mr Ms credit score and I cannot safely say any fall in his credit score came as a 
sole result of his Lloyds personal loan enquiry. 
Declined debit card payment 
Mr Ms problems began on 8 April after he attempted to pay for a new car insurance policy 
using his debit card. Lloyds declined the transaction pending Mr Ms confirmation that it was 
genuine.  Lloyds sent Mr M a text message asking him to confirm it was him making the 
payment. Mr M replied to confirm he had attempted the transaction and then Lloyds sent 
Mr M another text message asking him to wait ten minutes before attempting the payment 
again. Mr M did attempt the payment again but he did so immediately and so this too was 
declined.
The terms and conditions for Lloyds current account set out that:
5.4 When can we refuse to act on an instruction? 
We can refuse to make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal if: 
our internal security controls require you to produce additional identification or prevent us 
carrying out the transaction (for example, if it is for more than the maximum amount we 
set at any time); 
the payment seems unusual compared with the way you normally use your account, in 
which case we may investigate further, for example by calling you; 
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to decline the transaction. Im also satisfied that the 
reason the payment was declined a second time was because Mr M repeated the 
transaction too soon after Lloyds had made clear he needed to wait ten minutes before 
attempting the payment again. Ive seen from Mr Ms account statement that the payment was successfully made on 10 
April (and as this was a Sunday, it was debited from his account on 11 April). Ive noted 
Mr Ms dissatisfaction with not having a car insurance policy on risk and the losses he says 
he and Mrs M incurred. I realise Mr Ms strength of feeling here, but as I do not find that 
Lloyds acted inappropriately, I cannot tell the bank to compensate Mr M for his loss.
Overall, given the information available to me, Im not persuaded that Lloyds
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it closed Mr Ms credit card; was unwilling to grant Mr M 
a loan; and declined his debit card payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman