DRN-3289907
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly applied charges and interest to his
sole trader bank account, personal bank account and two credit card accounts while he was
in financial difficulty.
What happened
In 2014 Mr F opened an account with Lloyds for a business he ran as a sole trader. In the
same year he also opened a personal bank account and credit card with Lloyds. The bank
account had an overdraft facility of £100, and the credit card had a limit of £600.
In February 2015 Mr Fs business account went into an unarranged overdraft, and two
stranding orders were returned. In March 2015 the business account spent most of the
month in an unplanned overdraft, with several direct debits and standing orders returned
unpaid.
Over the next few months there were very few credits made to the business account (except
for May 2015, when a total of over £1,500 was paid in), which resulted in it being in an
unplanned overdraft for extended periods. That meant a lot of direct debits and standing
orders were returned unpaid, leading to hundreds of pounds worth of charges being applied
each month. No credits were made in August and September 2015, which left the balance of
the unarranged overdraft (comprised mostly of charges and interest) at over £1,150.
Mr F cleared the balance in October 2015 and the residual charges applied the following
month. Lloyds closed the business account in March 2016, after it had given notice to Mr F,
due to no credits being paid in for a sustained period.
In March 2015 Lloyds approved a second credit card for Mr F with a limit of £2,700. In the
same month he also started using the first credit card hed taken out in 2014. The credit
limits were quickly reached on both, and the accounts began incurring charges for late
payments and being over the limit. By September 2015 Mr F was over his limit on both his
credit card accounts, and no further payments were made to them after that month  until 
they were defaulted and charged off in April 2016.
Mr F largely maintained his personal bank account within the agreed limits, though he did
exceed the £100 overdraft limit on occasions  for short periods and by small amounts.
There were regular credits into the account, though some direct debits were returned unpaid
towards the end of 2015. The last credit made to the account was in June 2016, and once
the borrowing exceeded the overdraft limit in July 2016 it remained there  until the account
was closed and a default applied in November 2016. There was a debit balance of £157.12
owing at the time of closure.
In 2019 Mr F raised complaints with Lloyds about the different accounts he held during 2015
and 2016. He said that Lloyds ought to have known he was experiencing financial difficulty,
and so not compounded things by adding on charges. He also told the bank hed complained
about the charges in 2015, and let Lloyds know he was in financial difficulty, but had been
offered no help.
Lloyds responded to the complaints across several letters. In essence the bank said it had
applied the charges in line with the terms and conditions of each account, and didnt think it
had done anything wrong. The bank added that it couldnt find any evidence it had been
made aware Mr F was in financial difficulty. Lloyds had also already refunded some of the
interest and charges applied to the credit card accounts following a review of its
processes in 2018.
Our service reviewed Mr Fs complaints and didnt uphold them. Mr F wasnt happy with the
answers he received from us at first stage, so the matters have been referred to me for a
decision. Ive brought the separate complaints about the different accounts together under
this reference, so I can get a holistic view of how Lloyds treated Mr F overall during the
period in question.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022, which upheld one aspect of Mr Fs 
complaint. Ive quoted the part of my findings below which explained my rationale:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to uphold 
one aspect of Mr Fs complaint  and Ill explain why. But first, Im aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in my 
own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. It simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it  Ive carefully considered everything thats been provided to me. But 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I find to be the fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the crux of the matter here  did Lloyds treat Mr F fairly, when it 
applied charges/interest and lent to him, during the period in question.
Mr F was keen that I listened to a call he had with the investigator, which I did  but Im not
bound by the outcome reached by the investigator, or anything he was told during that
conversation. My decision is reached independently. Mr F has also mentioned issues he had
with Subject Access Requests (SAR) made to Lloyds, but those have already been dealt 
with by three different decisions. So I havent commented further on those matters here.
Mr F wasnt happy with how Lloyds handled his complaints. He told us there were excessive
delays at the bank in trying to resolve things  and inconsistencies in what he was told. I
acknowledge that Mr F doesnt believe Lloyds investigated his concerns properly, and I can
also appreciate how frustrating the prolonged back and forth with the bank must have been.
But I think Lloyds was clear that referring the matters to us was the next step if he didnt
agree. So I dont plan to compensate Mr F for any additional effort spent in continuing to
pursue his disputes directly with Lloyds, following its final responses, as that was his own
choice. I have taken onboard Mr Fs comments, though, in respect of where he considers the
bank didnt get things right.
Its also worth noting that while Lloyds has been able to provide most of the relevant
documentation, it hasnt retained the terms of the business account applicable to the
opening date  due to the time that has passed. Ive seen terms for the account from 2016
and another more recent set. The wording appears to have remained consistent in that time.
Lloyds has said its records suggest the business account terms were likely the same in
2014/15, and Ive proceeded on that basis in the absence of anything to the contrary.
I reviewed the opening of the accounts in 2014. There wasnt an overdraft attached to the
business account. But Mr Fs personal current account had a £100 overdraft, and he appliedfor a credit card account with a £600 limit. The guidance, from the regulator, in place at the
time said a lender needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Mr F had only just
started his sole trader business, and so the annual income stated on his applications would
have been a projection. But his business account had a healthy balance at the time, and he
told the bank (in both applications) he lived at home  meaning he had next to no outgoings
personally. There also doesnt appear to have been anything on his credit file at that point to
indicate Mr F had other borrowings elsewhere he wasnt managing well  and the limits on
both the overdraft and credit card were relatively low. So, overall, I dont consider either of
those lending decisions to have been irresponsible or unaffordable.
Mr F has complained that he told Lloyds at the time he was in financial difficulty, but I havent
seen any evidence which supports that assertion. Shortly after opening the second credit
card account Mr F called to ask if he could transfer some of his credit limit to a bank account.
I have listened to a recording of that phone call in 2015, and he told the bank everything was
OK with his finances when questioned by the agent. But given the amount of charges
applied to his business bank account, the limited amounts being credited to it and the letters
of concern being sent by Lloyds each month  I consider that as 2015 developed the bank
became increasingly aware (or at least ought to have been aware) his business was
struggling financially.
Mr F hasnt specified what help he would have wanted during this period  other than saying
Lloyds ought to have cancelled his direct debits sooner. He also says his business wasnt
able to afford the direct debits due to the money the bank was taking in charges each month.
While its true that Mr Fs business account incurred hundreds of pounds in charges, I dont
agree that was the primary cause of the direct debits being returned unpaid. For the majority
of 2015 not enough credits were paid into the account to cover the outgoings  so whether
or not the charges were applied, the direct debits and standing orders wouldnt have been
paid. Lloyds has said the two standing orders set up on the account were cancelled by June
2015, after theyd each been returned unpaid four times consecutively. The direct debits
were also all stopped by September 2015. So, Ive thought about whether Lloyds ought to
have stopped any of those payment instructions earlier or considered any other
interventions.
The first month where a number of direct debits were returned was March 2015. Only £318
was paid in that month, and it was a similar story for April 2015  when only £159.30 was
credited to the account. But in May 2015 more than £1,500 was paid in, which would have
been enough to cover the outgoings  but only some of the direct debits/standing orders
were covered that month due to when the credits were received. The terms stipulated that
payment instructions should only be made where there were sufficient funds to cover them.
Serious or repeated breaches of the terms were also a reason Lloyds could close the
account, without having to give notice. Taking that action, though, could have big
consequences for a business  and seriously affect its ability to open another account or get
finance elsewhere. Its also understandable that a new business, in its first year of trading,
may see fluctuations in its cash flow. So while Lloyds may have had some concerns up until
this point, in May 2015 it looked like things might be improving  and I dont think it would
have been appropriate for the bank to take any further action at that point.
In June 2015 some direct debits were paid, but the charges took the account into an
unplanned overdraft and it remained overdrawn for July too. As there was no agreement in
place for that borrowing, I wouldnt expected Lloyds to allow the account to continue in that
way for long without credits being made. Theres a system note added in July 2015 which
says that unless regular credits were received all direct debits and standing orders should be
cancelled, and closure requested. A credit was made to the account after that at the end ofJuly 2015, but nothing was paid in for August 2015. So by September 2015 the bank ought
to have been considering further action. However, all the direct debits were stopped in that
month, so no further charges for missed payments were applied. The amount owed on the
account was also cleared in full by Mr F in October 2015.
The terms specified that standing orders would be cancelled after four consecutive missed
payments  and thats what happened here, so I find Lloyds treated Mr F fairly in respect of
those. There isnt anything in the account terms, or business-to-business direct debit
mandate, stipulating direct debits would be cancelled if they were returned unpaid a certain
number of times. But it wouldnt be fair for a bank to keep returning them all unpaid and
apply charges indefinitely. That said, Ive only seen that one of the direct debits (out of the
six regular ones on the business account) had more than four consecutive missed payments
 the rest were paid intermittently from March to August 2015. Mr F agreed to the terms that
said further attempts would be made after a direct debit payment was unsuccessful, and I
consider it was likely clear what the corresponding charges would be if there were
insufficient funds to meet any payment instructions. The terms also allowed Lloyds to take
the account into an unplanned overdraft in the event of that being the case. So I dont think
the bank acted unfairly in any of those respects.
Lloyds did attempt to contact Mr F during 2015 to discuss the account. Mr F has told us he
informed the bank he wasnt always reachable at the address it had for him  but Ive seen
several letters were sent over a number of months. So I find it likely he would have received
some of them  and if he didnt, he ought to have provided a different address he could be
reached at, as required by the terms. Lloyds attempted to call him as well, though the notes
suggest Mr F hung up shortly after the agents said they were calling from Lloyds. So I dont
think the bank had the opportunity to explore other options with Mr F during 2015. I think its
also worth noting that on this account Lloyds was dealing with a business customer, and so
the duties on a lender when dealing with a consumer in financial difficulty didnt apply. Ive
also factored in that Mr F would have been able to cancel the direct debits and standing
orders himself, and that he would have been better placed than Lloyds to know whether his
business account was likely to have the funds needed to cover them. So, overall, though I
accept Mr F paid a lot of money in charges during the period question  I dont find that
Lloyds acted unreasonably when applying those charges to the business account.
Ive also reviewed what happened on Mr Fs personal account. Though there were
occasions the account exceeded its overdraft limit, it wasnt by much and Mr F quickly
brought the account back within its limits. The account was often in credit and at times had a
healthy balance  with very few additional charges incurred during the period it was active. I
havent seen any indicators of financial difficulty I consider the bank should have acted on 
except towards the end of 2016, when the account remained over its overdraft limit (albeit by
£50) and no credits were paid in for an extended period. Lloyds issued a closure notice at 
that point, in line with its terms, and after the outstanding amount wasnt cleared in time
recorded a default. I find that to have been fair in the circumstances.
I went on to consider what happened on Mr Fs first credit card account as well. After the
initial lending decision Mr F didnt use the card until March 2015, when a single transaction
for his business took the account pretty much up to its limit. He missed the three payments
after that and incurred late charges in each of those months  as well as two over the limit
fees. In the fourth month Mr F made a payment to clear the arrears and brought the account
back below its limit. He only made one more minimum payment after that  and following no
payments being received for six months the account was closed and a default applied.
Lloyds reviewed the account in 2018  and refunded all the charges and interest applied to
the account in the final six months before it was charged off. I consider the other charges to
have been fairly applied though, as I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have intervened any
earlier (some payments had been made, and the account hadnt been in use long). So Imnot directing Lloyds to take any further action in relation to the first credit card.
However, I dont agree the lending on the second credit card was responsible or affordable.
In March 2015, when Mr F applied for another credit card with Lloyds, he had only just used
his first credit card  spending up to the limit in a single transaction. I appreciate the payment
due date for that first card wasnt before the second application, but applying to open a
second account when the first one had only just been used (up its limit) in itself could be an
indicator of underlying issues. Mr F had also only just started using his personal current
account as well, and with two transactions was up to his overdraft limit by the time of the
second application. So nothing in the short history on either his first credit card or current
account was telling Lloyds Mr F could afford £2,700 of lending in March 2015. I accept that
his application gave a self-employed income which suggested he could afford that level of
lending, along with virtually no outgoings  but Mr Fs business bank account told a different
story.
Lloyds has said the staff member processing Mr Fs second credit card application likely
wouldnt have known he also had a business account with the bank, due to them being on
separate systems. How Lloyds chooses to organise its systems is a matter for the bank to
decide. But that doesnt change the fact that Lloyds had at its disposal information that
strongly suggested the stated annual income wasnt correct  and that Mr Fs business (his
sole source of income) might be experiencing financial difficulties. In the run up to the
application Ive not seen anything on his business account that supports Mr F being able to
pay himself a regular income, and during February 2015 the account had spent two weeks in
an unarranged overdraft  with two standing orders being returned unpaid. I accept that
businesses can experience fluctuations in cashflow, but this was a new business  and there
wasnt any evidence of it achieving a regular income prior to that. Lloyds has said the
regulations in place at the time didnt say the bank had to verify any declared income  but
equally I dont find it was reasonable in the circumstances for Lloyds to ignore the
information it had already. £2,700 was significantly higher limit than had previously been
agreed for Mr F, and Lloyds need to be reasonably satisfied that hed be able to repay that
borrowing in a sustainable way. Based on all the indicators Ive set out above, I dont agree
the information Lloyds had was suggesting Mr F could afford that credit limit  or any further
lending. So I dont think Lloyds ought to have approved the second credit card account.
Mr F used the card to pay for various things  including bills for his business. So I consider
its fair for Lloyds to ask him to pay back what he spent on it. But, as I dont agree the
second credit card account ought to have been opened, Im currently minded to direct Lloyds
to rework the account to remove all the interest and charges applied, throughout the life of
the card, from the balance owing. Thats because I dont consider it would be fair for the
bank to profit from that mistake. If that leaves the account in a positive balance then Lloyds
should add on 8% simple yearly interest, from the time the account would have been in 
credit up until the date settlement is paid. If Lloyds needs to buy back the account to achieve
that reworking of the balance, then it should. I also dont think it would be fair for the bank to
report any adverse data on Mr Fs credit file in relation to this credit card account  so Im
planning to direct Lloyds to remove that too.
Lloyds responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. It said that the debt (for the 
credit card account that should be reworked) had been sold, and prior to that around £340 of 
interest and charges had been refunded in 2018. In order to remove the rest of the interest 
and charges applied to the account across the life of the card, Lloyds said a further refund of 
just over £170 was needed. If less than that amount was outstanding, Lloyds confirmed it 
would send Mr F any surplus and calculate the 8% simple interest to be added on top. The 
bank also said it would buy back the account to avoid any further action being taken by the 
firm it had been sold to. In terms of removing the adverse credit file data, Lloyds told us the 
default is due to naturally drop off in March (2022), which is within the usual 60 days it would take to instruct the credit reference agencies to amend data. So the bank suggested leaving 
it to run its course, to avoid any issues. Lloyds also asked for some clarity around what 
asking Mr F to pay back what he spent on the card could involve. 
Mr F didnt agree with the findings set out in the provisional decision and responded with 
several points for me to consider. In summary he said:
Not fully upholding the complaint would make a mockery of the regulations regarding 
irresponsible lending, which Lloyds have to adhere to. 
Hed previously been told by us over the phone that this case would be fully upheld in 
his favour.
Lloyds had contradicted itself when it said it wasnt aware of his financial difficulties, 
but at the same time was chasing him for money owed.
He would never have used the first credit card had Lloyds not forced him to, by 
adding so many charges to the business account and making it unusable. 
Lloyds had targeted him for profit while he was in financial difficulty and forced him 
into a position of vulnerability.
These issues have been hanging over his head from 2014 until today.
Lloydss actions had an irreversible effect on his credit rating, and prevented him 
from opening a standard bank account or even being able to have a mobile phone 
contract.
The banks staff attempted to cover up its mistakes and failings  he was repeatedly 
lied to over the phone, which was admitted in letters.
Lloyds has lost personal and private data of his and those breaches of his data rights 
have been confirmed by the Information Commissioners Office.
Lloyds repeatedly ignored evidence and refused to review new information submitted 
to the bank. Mr F says he was given misleading information about whether 
something had been reviewed or not.
I should review a letter where Lloyds admitted it was in the wrong throughout the 
whole complaint, and that the banks failings had meant it had closed the complaint 
with the incorrect outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint in part  and for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. I will address the points that have been made by both parties, but firstly 
I want to acknowledge that I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to 
Mr F. I know hes had a very challenging few years, and it isnt my intention to minimise what 
hes been through in any way. What Ive had to focus on in this decision, though, is to what 
extent I find Lloyds has treated Mr F unfairly in the matters complained about. Ive carefully 
considered everything thats been provided to me  and Ive found the bank were only at 
fault in approving the second credit card account.
Mr F has referred to the lending regulations in place, and a lenders duty to ensure any 
borrowing isnt irresponsible or unaffordable. Those affordability checks take place at the 
point the credit is approved  which for the £100 overdraft on his personal account and the 
£600 limit on the first credit card were in 2014, before Mr F started to experience financial 
difficulty. Ive explained in detail why I think those first two lending decisions were 
reasonable. I appreciate Mr F feels Lloyds forced him into using the first credit card to cover 
a business expense, but he hadnt incurred many charges by then. I dont doubt Mr F felt like 
he had no choice but to use the card, but I think the wider circumstances of his business being in financial difficulty were the driving forces there. When the second credit card was 
opened, however, Ive said there were indicators that Mr Fs business might have been 
struggling. Not enough credits were being paid into the business account to cover the 
outgoings, and it had begun incurring charges. So I dont think Lloyds should have offered 
him a credit card with a £2,700 credit limit at that point. 
In Mr Fs response he said he thought Lloyds has contradicted itself when it said it wasnt 
aware of his financial difficulties. But the bank said it couldnt find any evidence Mr F made it 
aware at the time he was in financial difficulty  and Ive also not seen any evidence to 
support that either. Irrespective of whether Lloyds was told by Mr F, Ive concluded that there 
were indicators his business might have been experiencing some difficulty at the point it 
approved the second card. It also sent out letters of concern in the months the account was 
being operated outside of the terms  so Lloyds was aware Mr F was struggling to maintain 
the account within the agreed limits.
Lloyds allowed Mr Fs business account to go into an unplanned overdraft  another kind of 
borrowing that also required lending decisions when it happened. The agreed terms 
explained that Lloyds would do that, to allow for temporary fluctuations in cashflow  and the 
bank only extended that line of credit to accommodate commitments (like charges and 
interest) that couldnt be rejected and bounced back. The terms also set out it was Mr Fs 
responsibility to ensure there were enough funds in the account to meet the outgoings. So 
the onus was initially on him to cancel any direct debits or standing orders his business 
account didnt have the funds to pay, if he wanted to avoid the costs associated with 
returning them. Even if the charges hadnt been applied, the business account was well 
short of receiving the credits it needed (during the months in question) to meet all the 
payment instructions set up on it. So I dont consider the bank to have been at fault when it 
applied the charges to the business account.
Consistently operating outside of the terms and conditions was a reason the bank could 
close the account. So, while it wouldnt have been fair for Lloyds to have allowed the account 
to be operated that way indefinitely, it had to be mindful that intervening would have likely 
had serious repercussions for Mr F and his business. I appreciate that in hindsight Mr F feels 
that Lloyds should have acted sooner, given the amount he ended up owing in charges  but 
I understand why the bank allowed his business some opportunity to get back on track.  
Overall, I havent found that the bank ought to have stepped in and cancelled the payment 
instructions on the business account any sooner than when the last ones were cancelled in 
September 2015. 
Mr F has explained that the defaults incurred in 2016 (which will all soon drop off his credit 
file) affected his ability to get credit for many years. I agree that one of those shouldnt have 
been recorded, because the second credit card account ought not to have been opened. But 
even without that one, Mr F would have still had three defaults recorded  and I dont 
consider Lloyds treated him unfairly when it registered those. So, even without the default 
that shouldnt have been applied, he would have encountered similar difficulty in getting 
credit. That means I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the issues Mr F has said arose from 
the impact these events had on his credit rating.
I havent seen enough for me to be able to conclude the bank attempted to deliberately 
cover up its mistakes  and Im only concluding one was made here (the opening of the 
second credit card). Mr F has explained in detail how frustrating the back and forth he had 
with Lloyds was, following the final response letters being issued. But as it was his choice to 
continue to pursue the matter with the bank, and the next steps were clear, Im not directing 
any compensation be paid to account for that impact. Hes also had his SAR related queries 
answered under separate references, so Im not addressing those in this complaint. The 
letter Mr F sent us following the provisional decision is dated November 2021 and refers to an error made in another response issued in October 2021  namely, accusing him of 
providing an email address when he didnt. Based on that, I dont agree that Lloyds has 
admitted it was in the wrong throughout the whole of this matter. The letter also concerns 
issues that occurred long after we started investigating how Lloyds treated Mr F in relation to 
his financial difficulty from 2014 to 2016  so they fall outside of the scope of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision, Lloyds proposed allowing the credit file data to run its 
course and drop of naturally after March 2022. Interfering with that could potentially cause 
issues, and the usual amendment process would take longer than is left to run on that 
default entry. So, with that in mind, I consider what Lloyds has suggested to be a fair 
approach to the adverse credit file information relating to the second credit card account. Ive 
also seen evidence of the refunds in interest and charges the bank said it already applied to 
this account in 2018. 
In terms of asking Mr F to repay the amount he spent on the card, I think a reasonable way 
forward would be for Lloyds and Mr F to discuss an affordable repayment plan for the 
outstanding amount. The other accounts have been sold on to another firm, so discussions 
about those would need to be with the new owners of the debts. But any future action the 
bank considers should factor in that I dont find it would be fair for any adverse data 
concerning that credit card account to be reported externally. Ive also thought about 
whether it would be fair for me to make any rectification work the bank carries out contingent 
on a payment plan being agreed. But I dont think it would be, as I consider Lloyds should 
correct its mistake regardless of the outcome of those discussions (if Mr F accepts the final 
decision). My role is limited to deciding whats reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to speculate any further on the fairness of 
what might happen in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Fs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC in part, and direct the 
bank to:
Buy back the second credit card account, opened in March 2015, to avoid the current 
owner of the debt taking further recovery action.
Rework that credit card account, to remove all interest and charges applied to it from 
the balance owing.
Add 8% simple yearly interest to any positive balance resulting from that reworking of 
the account  calculated from the date the account wouldve gone into credit until the 
date settlement is paid.
Allow all adverse data recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to the second credit 
card account to drop off after March 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman