DRN-3097863
The complaint
Mr O complained about advice he received from Paul Davidson trading as Thompstone 
Harris & Co Ltd to switch his pensions.
What happened
Thompstone Harriss adviser gave Mr O advice/recommendations in respect of switching his 
pensions. An undated document outlined the Specific Recommendations:
1. switch the personal pensions to a retirement portfolio (with a provider Ill refer to as M) 
and take the maximum permitted tax-free cash, and
2. then invest the tax-free cash separately.
The adviser sent Mr O an email on 29 October 2012 and said following his 
recommendations he proposed to carry out the above transactions. He also said he would 
submit the application for the retirement portfolio after 12 November 2012 in order to qualify 
for new increased terms.
For the retirement portfolio:
the adviser told Mr O that for each year he deferred taking an income the value would 
increase by a minimum of 4% of his initial investment (the increased terms were 4.25%)
he gave the example of a £100,000 initial investment increasing to a minimum of 
£120,000 after five years ie an increase of £4,000 (4% of £100,000) each year
the Key Facts Document for the product explained this further: If you don't take income 
immediately, [M] guarantees to increase your Secure Income Base by 4.25% of your 
initial Secure Income Base for each full year you defer taking income. [NB  the secure 
income base is the initial investment on which the guaranteed income is calculated]
For the investment of the tax-free cash the adviser told Mr O that the investment was linked 
to the FTSE-100 Index, and that it would provide a return of twice the Index performance (up 
to a maximum of 54%).
Following the recommendation Mr O invested £72,197.93 into the portfolio (having taken 
£24,065.98 as tax-free cash). His employer then paid £410 a month into the portfolio. Mr O 
didnt follow the advice to reinvest the tax-free cash.
In January 2019 Mr O wrote to M and asked various questions  including about the growth 
of his investment. M said there were two pricing structures  one with a 4% increase and 
one with a 4.25% increase  and that Mr Os portfolio had been issued with a 4% increase. 
M said it could retrospectively re-write the portfolio from the start with a 4.25% increase.
Later in 2019 Mr O complained to Thompstone Harris. He said it stated that his fund would 
grow by at least 4.25% per annum if he deferred taking an income but this hadnt turned out 
to be the case.
Thompstone Harris confirmed to Mr O that the initial investment formed a secure income 
base on which a guaranteed retirement income was calculated (the income being calculated 
as a percentage of the secure income base). It further said the secure income base would 
increase by 4.25%, which protected the value of the fund until Mr O took his pension. It said 
that the value of the secure income base in February 2019 was £127,095.92. So it felt the 
minimum guaranteed annual increase of 4.25% had been achieved.
In March 2020 Mr O transferred his pension from M to a new provider.
Mr O remained unhappy and he complained to us. In addition to the value of the portfolio, he 
referred to the advice to take the tax-free cash and reinvest it. He felt this further penalised 
him as he had no need for the money at the time and he could have taken a greater amount 
of tax-free cash once the portfolio had grown. To resolve the matter, he wanted:
the advisers advice to be honoured, or for Thompstone Harris to refund all the fees M 
charged for the guaranteed increase and all the fees it had received, and
to be compensated for the lost performance he would have received had he not taken 
the advice.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below, and they form part of my 
final decision.
The complaint
The complaint Mr O made to Thompstone Harris concerned the fact his pension fund 
hadnt grown as hed expected, and was therefore lower than he felt it should be. When 
he complained to us, the complaint extended to the advice regarding the tax-free cash.
When investigating complaints we have an inquisitorial remit, which essentially means 
were not limited to considering the actual complaint brought to us, and we can extend 
our consideration to other related issues. I thought that was important here because 
whilst Mr Os specific complaint points were relatively narrow, I often find it necessary 
with this type of complaint to look at the recommendation or advice itself to ascertain 
whether it was suitable in all the circumstances. And although he hadnt directly 
mentioned it, I thought Mr O had hinted at the fact he thought the initial advice might 
have been unsuitable as he referred to being compensated for losses based on him not 
taking the advice. He also said in response to our investigators opinion that he felt hed 
been badly advised overall.
I therefore looked at the recommendation as a whole.
Rules/regulations/considerations
Overall, the adviser had a responsibility to ensure that his recommendation was suitable 
for Mr Os circumstances. He was required to get sufficient information from Mr O 
(including the purpose of the transaction) in order to be sure that the recommendation 
met his objectives, he was able to bear any related investment risk and he understood 
the risks involved in the transaction. And he was required to demonstrate that the advice 
was suitable by issuing a suitability letter or report  linking Mr Os situation and the 
product recommended.Mr Os circumstances
Thompstone Harris told us that Mr O approached it for advice as he wanted to take the 
maximum tax-free cash from his pension. Mr O on the other hand told us he was 
unhappy with how his three existing personal pensions were performing so he sought 
advice on transferring them. He also said he didnt want or need the tax-free cash.
I hadnt seen any documentation from the time of the advice which set out what Mr Os 
objectives were. Thompstone Harris had provided a Fact Find document  the first page 
of which was titled Aims and Objectives  but it was signed by Mr O in July 2000. I 
didnt therefore think it had much evidential value in this case. So I didnt think 
Thompstone Harris had shown what Mr Os circumstances were at the time, what his 
objectives were or what the purpose of the transaction was.
Advice/recommendation
It was clear to me that Thompstone Harris recommended to Mr O that he transfer his 
pensions, take the tax-free cash, and re-invest that cash separately.
Because Thompstone Harris hadnt provided any detailed documentation from the time 
of the advice I didnt think it had shown that the recommendations it made were suitable. 
It hadnt demonstrated, for example, that they met Mr Os circumstances and/or 
objectives, or that it was in line with his attitude to risk and capacity to suffer any loss. 
This was particularly important in respect of the tax-free cash given Mr Os comment that 
he didnt need or want it. 
The fact the underlying investment might have performed as anticipated didnt mean the 
recommendation was suitable. In other words the actual performance of an investment 
didnt mask poor advice in the first place  although it might be relevant to any loss a 
consumer actually suffered.
I therefore concluded that the advice was unsuitable.
A point Thompstone Harris made in respect of the tax-free cash was that this was more 
a discussion point, rather than a recommendation. I didnt agree with this. The 
documents clearly indicated to me that this was more than a discussion point and was 
actually advice/a recommendation.
Sundry issues
For completeness, I commented on the fact Ms portfolio appeared to have been set up 
on the basis that the guaranteed increase was 4% each year when the intention was for 
it to be 4.25%, and Mr Os view that his investment underperformed against the 
promised guarantee. I havent detailed those comments here as I dont consider them to 
make a difference to the overall outcome of the complaint  they were merely for Mr O 
and Thompstone Harriss information.
Putting things right
Thompstone Harris referred to the fact that if Mr O had followed the full advice  ie to 
reinvest the tax free cash  those funds would have grown more than they would have 
had they remained in the pension portfolio. So, in other words, Mr O wouldnt have 
suffered a loss. That might have been the case (although I didnt know as I hadnt seen 
actual calculations or comparisons); however, in considering any loss Mr O suffered I thought the fair comparison should be between the position he actually found himself in 
and the position he would have been in had he received suitable advice. 
When Mr O discovered that there might have been a problem with the advice/his 
investment he carried out some research. That included investing £100 into another fund 
to see how it performed. He also started looking at online investment-related forums. 
Mr O delayed transferring his pension from M because he felt it became clear from the 
forums that if he had any concerns about the pension performance and/or the advice 
those issues needed to be sorted out first otherwise any complaint he might make would 
be nullified. In his submission to us Mr O referred to losses he suffered due to the delay 
in transferring the pension into the alternative fund (based his £100 growing by 9%). 
Mr O further explained to me that he didnt move his funds earlier because he felt it was 
vital that the 4% v 4.25% issue was clarified, and his calculations showed the portfolio 
value was much less than he thought it should be. He said felt the losses he incurred 
due to delaying the transfer were down to Thompstone Harris not setting up the fund as 
agreed ie with the 4.25% increase.
Mr O had his reasons for delaying the transfer of his pension away from M (although I 
thought he might have been swayed by what was said on the forum, which I didnt agree 
with  he wouldnt have been disadvantaged by transferring the pension prior to the 
issues being sorted out). It wasnt for me to judge whether or not Mr O acted reasonably 
in delaying the transfer. However, I didnt think it was fair to make Thompstone Harris 
compensate Mr O for any losses he might have suffered due to the delay. That was 
because I felt any losses in this respect were due to him deciding to delay transferring 
his pension rather than due to the initial unsuitable advice.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O sought clarification from us on what my decision meant (which our investigator 
subsequently gave).
Thompstone Harris raised some queries in respect of how Id proposed it should put things 
right, and it provided some information about Ms pension plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any comments of information that persuades me to alter my 
original conclusion. My final decision therefore remains as per my provisional decision  for 
the same reasons.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr O should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr O would have invested differently. Its 
not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set 
out below is fair and reasonable given what I know of his circumstances when he invested.
To compensate Mr O fairly, Thompstone Harris must:
Compare the performance of Mr O's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. Thompstone 
Harris should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Thompstone Harris should pay into Mr O's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Thompstone Harris is unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate 
of tax. However, if Mr O would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Provide Mr O with details of its calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Thompstone Harris deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr O how much has been taken off. It should also give him a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
&Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmark from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
M portfolio transferredfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
The actual value is the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. The fair 
value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Thompstone 
Harris should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum that Mr O paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Thompstone Harris totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think Mr O wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds  its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return
I consider that Mr O's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives  so the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr O into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr O would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment; rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return he could have obtained from investments suited to his circumstances
the additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date.
The redress Ive outlined above will compensate Mr O for any loss he might have suffered 
up to the time he transferred his pension away from M. But his potential loss needs to be 
brought up to date due to the possibility that the amount Mr O invested when he transferred 
away from M was lower than what he otherwise would have invested. To explain using a 
simple example:
let's say Mr O transferred his pension one year ago, the value at the date of the transfer 
was £90,000, and the new pension grew by 10% over the year
but the fair value that would have been transferred but for the unsuitable advice is 
£100,000
so the compensation outlined above would bring the value of Mr Os pension to 
£109,000 (the original £90,000 plus £9,000 [ie the 10% growth] plus £10,000 [ie the 
difference between the fair value and the actual value])
but had £100,000 been transferred the current value of Mr Os pension would be 
£110,000  thereby meaning a loss of £1,000 that needs compensating.
So in addition to what Ive set out above, I think Thompstone Harris should compensate 
Mr O for any lost investment growth due to the actual amount transferred being lower than it 
otherwise would have been. The calculation should be made from the date of the transfer to 
the date of my final decision. If the actual amount transferred is more than what otherwise 
would have been transferred, then there is no further loss so no compensation is payable.
In response to my provisional decision Thompstone Harris questioned the end date given 
my conclusion that it shouldnt be liable for losses caused by Mr O delaying the transfer of 
his pension away from M. The redress methodology Ive outlined above is designed to 
compensate Mr O for losses he suffered while his pension was with M. So in comparing the 
actual performance of his investment against the benchmark set, I remain of the view that 
the end date should be the date Mr O transferred his pension away from M.
For clarity, I dont think Thompstone Harris should be liable to compensate Mr O for any lost 
growth on his pension stemming from him not transferring it earlier. So if for example by 
remaining with M the pension fund grew by 5% but had Mr O transferred it would have 
grown by 10%, in my opinion the extra 5% growth that was lost was due in Mr Os decision to delay transferring his pension. And its that loss Ive concluded that Thompstone Harris 
isnt liable for.
Thompstone Harris also told us that it couldnt source data for the FTSE Index that Ive used 
as a benchmark; however, our investigator has now provided it with details on how it can find 
this.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Paul Davidson trading as Thompstone Harris & Co Ltd to 
settle the matter as outlined under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman