DRN-2397267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Swinton Group Ltd mis-sold a home insurance policy to 
them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E bought a home insurance policy through a broker, Swinton. They made a 
claim to their insurer following a burglary at their home. Their claim for items stolen from their 
garage was declined as the insurer said they werent covered. 
Mr and Mrs E have made a separate complaint to the insurer about the decline of their claim 
and this has been investigated by this service. Mr and Mrs E asked us to look at their 
complaint that Swinton hadnt made it clear to them when it sold the policy that they didnt 
have cover for their bicycles which they stored in their garage. 
Mr E said Swinton asked him to declare bicycles they owned with a value of more than £350. 
Because Swinton asked this, he believes Swinton should have alerted them to the fact that 
because they chose to buy the essential policy, that the bikes wouldnt be covered in the 
event of a claim. 
Our investigator thought that Swinton had acted reasonably. From the online journey and the 
options and documents made available, she thought Swinton had been clear. She said it 
was for Mr and Mrs E to choose the correct level of cover to suit their needs as Swinton 
didnt give advice. 
Mr and Mrs E dont agree. So theyd like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs E applied for the policy through a comparison website. The sale was a non 
advised sale and so Swinton explained that it wasnt responsible for providing advice as to 
the suitability of the policy. This was a decision for Mr and Mrs E to make on checking the 
policy. 
Screenshots show that under the comparison website, Mr and Mrs E were asked if they 
would like to insure any bicycles or laptops with a value of over £350, which Mr E says they 
answered yes. So Mr E says Swinton should have alerted them when they went on to 
choose the essential level of cover that their bicycles wouldnt be covered by theft from an 
outbuilding. 
Screenshots show that Swinton provided a choice of three levels of cover, the cheapest 
being essentials cover, followed by classic cover and premier cover. A table set out a 
summary of the cover available under each policy. Under the Buildings and Contents cover 
section, theft from outbuildings it clearly shows that cover for this isnt available under the 
essentials policy, but is available (subject to limits) under the classic and premier levels of 
cover. 
The full policy wording was made available for Mr and Mrs E to read before they bought the 
policy. And in bold it wrote:
Please check your policy and your schedule carefully to make sure that you are 
insured.
Mr and Mrs E say the Insurance Product Information Document  which highlights key 
information about cover  wasnt clear.  However, the document lists the following under the 
section What is not insured?:
Any amount for contents stolen from garages or outbuildings
 
Mr and Mrs E dont agree. They say because they listed the bicycles under the optional 
cover section which includes personal possessions, there are different rules which says that 
pedal cycles are covered for theft in the UK or anywhere in the world  but doesnt say under 
the exclusions section that items kept in a garage are excluded. 
Ive looked at the IPID Mr and Mrs E received along with the full policy wording. Under the 
section Mr E has highlighted for personal possessions, the column next to it is titled Cover 
Level and it reads Up to Not Included. 
I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs E are that their claim for stolen bicycles from 
their garage wasnt covered under the policy. But I think Swinton was clear enough in the 
policy documentation it provided. The onus was on Mr and Mrs E to check the policy to be 
sure it provided suitable cover to meet their needs. I think Swinton highlighted key features 
of the essential policy which Mr and Mrs E chose  and I think it also provided useful 
comparative information about the levels of cover available under the classic and premier 
policies for Mr and Mrs E to make an informed decision before buying their policy. 
So taking everything into account,  I dont think Swinton mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman