DRN-4329681
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about M&G Securities Limited and the service it provided. She asked 
it to transfer two ISAs to a third party and there was delay.  
Mrs Bs son, Mr B says that he holds a general power of attorney. He is acting on behalf of 
Mrs B in her complaint. But for simplicity and because she is the complainant, I have 
referred to Mrs B throughout.
What happened
Mrs B held two stocks and shares ISA with M&G. In March 2022 she tried to transfer them 
both to a third party. Mrs B was looking to transfer the stock held within the ISAs in specie 
directly to the third party. 
Mrs B said the transfer broke down on three occasions in March and April 2022. The third 
party contacted her and said it had been given an error message by M&G on each occasion. 
Mrs B said M&G had not been able to resolve the problem. She said it knew enough about 
her to write with details of the investments with the account number but couldnt sufficiently 
use this to transfer the ISAs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in 22 August 2023. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
I am currently looking to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I will explain why:
Mrs B sought to transfer two ISAs from M&G to a third party. A third party made an 
electronic transfer request on 30 March 2022. This request did not take place and 
the third party was provided with a cancellation message from M&G that said, 
account details must match one of the configured regular expressions.
M&G tried to complete the transfer electronically a further two times on 4 and 6 April 
2022. Again, on both occasions the transfer wasnt successful, and the same 
message was relayed from M&G to the third party.
Mrs B emailed M&G on 5 April 2022 asking what had happened and that she 
couldnt find any further information online about this. At this stage, I can see an 
electronic transfer was attempted by a third party on three occasions and there was 
a reason why this wasnt successful each time. This needed further investigation by 
M&G. 
M&G notified Mrs B on 13 May 2022 that it would look into her complaint and would 
send on her concerns to its investigation team. Then on 18 May 2022 it sent a 
response to Mrs B to say that it was unable to locate any electronic or manual 
requests regarding her account. It said if she had been provided with any emails 
from a third party in relation to an error message received from it, that the third party 
should contact it. There was then a further response from M&G on 30 June 2022 to 
say that it was sorry to hear Mrs Bs transfer issues had not been resolved and it 
would again forward her email to the investigations team. 
The third party eventually sent a manual transfer request to M&G on 26 August 
2022 and the transfer was completed on 2 September 2022, around six months after 
the first electronic transfer request back in March 2022. 
Recently, the third party has provided information that shows the correct information 
was put on the electronic transfer forms. M&G found out shortly after it saw this, that 
the third party sent the requests in March and April 2022 to an incorrect email 
address.
In its final response sent on 18 May 2022, M&G said it hadnt been able to locate 
any electronic or manual requests regarding the account, but it wouldve had in front 
of it, information provided by Mrs B about an error message that came from itself. 
So, it would have known that transfer requests had taken place and that it had 
cancelled them due to an error. 
If M&G had properly looked into Mrs Bs concerns in May 2022, in the same way it 
did on 12 July 2023, it would have seen the third party had sent the requests to the 
wrong email address. This looked like quite a straightforward check for it to carry 
out. 
If M&G had relayed what it had found earlier, in its response on 18 May 2022, then it 
stands to reason the transfer of Mrs Bs ISAs would have taken place a lot sooner. 
So, I think M&G, by not investigating Mrs Bs complaint properly, is responsible for a 
delay here. I currently think because of this, M&G needs to put things right. It is 
responsible for a delay that could have been avoided if it had looked into Mrs Bs 
requests properly.
I can see that Mrs Bs transfer request was to move the stock in specie. So, her 
money would have been invested in the market throughout, in the stock that she 
wanted to be invested in. So, Mrs B wouldnt have incurred any investment losses 
because of M&Gs failings in this complaint.
What is left for me to consider, is distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs B. I 
am currently minded to conclude M&G is responsible for a delay and this would 
have caused Mrs B undue stress and worry. She would have had to continue to 
chase up a transfer that it could have resolved sooner. 
I currently uphold Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons given above. M&G needs to put things 
right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
M&G responded on 7 September 2023 and confirmed it had no further comments. It said 
it agrees with my award of £200. 
Mrs B, through her representative Mr B, responded on 23 August 2023 and made some 
additional points. She said:
Normally an incorrect address would result in a bounce back error message. Or, 
if the address was valid but went to the wrong person, that person would usually either forward the email to the correct person or reply to the sender with the 
correct address. And neither happened. 
The third party received replies that in effect said the account details were wrong. 
This looks like an automated response from a correct address. M&Gs wrong 
email position looks like weak obfuscation.
M&G must have eventually added the correct number to the manual forms. 
Neither herself nor the third party had the numbers it needed.
M&G failed to engage in a helpful or effective way over a long period of time and 
put her to a great deal of trouble trying to progress something that shouldve 
been simple to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the latest submission from Mrs B carefully. She has made some points about 
what M&G could have done better when it received the transfer requests from the third 
party, or what it could have done when it received notification that the transfers didnt 
happen.
I understand what Mrs B is saying about M&Gs role in the transfer requests. But I have 
seen information provided by the third party that show the correct account information was 
put on the transfer forms. And M&G found out, after it had been informed of this, that the 
requests had been sent to the wrong email address. 
I am persuaded, after reading what the parties have said, that the third party simply sent 
the transfer form to an incorrect email address held by M&G. I dont think I can fairly 
conclude M&G were responsible for this or the subsequent failed transfer attempts. I do 
understand the points Mrs B has made about what M&G could have done to rectify the 
transfers from its end. But I dont think I would be drawing a fair conclusion if I was to say 
M&G was responsible for the transfers not happening or any delay being caused by this, 
based on what I have seen more likely than not has happened here. 
That said, I do think M&G should have picked up on what happened with these transfers in 
May 2022, when it investigated Mrs Bs concerns. It did cause a delay by not investigating 
Mrs Bs complaint properly and by doing so it caused her distress and inconvenience. So, I 
do uphold Mrs Bs complaint and M&G need to now put things right. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, M&G needs to: 
Pay Mrs B £200 for distress and inconvenience for making an error that caused a 
delay. Mrs B had to continue to chase up a transfer that could have been resolved by 
M&G sooner if it had carried out an investigation properly into why the transfers had 
broken down.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct M&G Securities Limited to put 
things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman