DRN-2286381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 1987 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley. At the same time, they 
took out a PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Bs name. Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly premium 
for the policy. It would have paid out a monthly benefit of £200 if Mr B had made a 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
In 1992 the monthly benefit was increased to £300 when Mr and Mrs B took out a further 
advance on the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley no longer has all the documents relating to the sale of the PPI. I dont 
think thats surprising or unreasonable, given how long ago the mortgage and further 
advance were taken out. But Bradford & Bingley still has some documentation, and its 
sent samples of some of the other documents it was using at the time.
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs signed mortgage application form from 1987. It 
includes a section headed Payment Protection Plan. There are boxes for the applicants 
to insert how much monthly cover they required. Immediately under those, it says If 
protection is NOT required please indicate with a cross in the box. That box has been 
left blank. And £200 has been inserted in the box for the monthly cover required by the 
first applicant (Mr B, in this case).
Im satisfied that it was clear from the way PPI was referred to in the mortgage 
application that it was optional. And I think its likely that there was some discussion 
about how much cover Mr and Mrs B wished to take, and that £200 was inserted in the 
box because thats the amount of cover they chose.
Ive also seen a sample of the standard letter that Bradford & Bingley says would have 
been sent to Mr and Mrs B with the mortgage offer. I know of no reason to think that it 
wouldnt have followed its usual procedures in Mr and Mrs Bs case. And I think its more 
likely than not that the letter was sent to Mr and Mrs B. It says I am very pleased to see 
that you have decided to opt for Payment Protection Insurance. I think this would have 
served to underline further both the fact that Mr and Mrs B were taking out PPI and that it 
was optional.
Ive also seen a copy of the application form for the further advance, completed in 1992 
Theres section on PPI. It asks whether the application wishes to take advantage of the 
cover. The words Existing policy for £200  please increase to £300 have been written 
next to the question.
Again, I think it was clear from the way PPI was referred to on the application form that 
Mr and Mrs B had a choice about whether to take out PPI. And I think its most likely that 
the cover was increased at their request, to protect the increase in monthly mortgage 
payments which resulted from the further advance.
Ive borne in mind that details of the monthly premiums for the PPI would have been set 
out in the insurance schedule, which Im satisfied, on balance, would have been sent to 
Mr and Mrs B. And the PPI premiums would have appeared on their annual mortgage 
statements too  both before and after the further advance. Ive explained that I think it 
would have been clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional. And if they hadnt 
agreed to take it, I think its likely theyd have raised this at the time.
Taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs B decided to take the PPI, and 
subsequently to increase the cover, knowing that it was optional  although I can 
understand how they may no longer remember this, so long after the event.
Bradford & Bingley says it didnt make a recommendation to Mr and Mrs B about the 
PPI. If thats right, it means it didnt have to check whether the policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs B. It would have been for Mr and Mrs B to decide for themselves whether 
they wished to take the cover, knowing what alternative means theyd have had of 
making their monthly mortgage payments if Mr B had been off sick, or if hed lost his job. 
If Bradford & Bingley did advise Mr and Mrs B to take out the PPI it had a responsibility 
to check that it was suitable for them. But it looks as if it was suitable, based on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs told us that in both 1987 and 1992 hed have been entitled to six months full sick 
pay from his employer at the time. After that, the level of sick pay was at his managers 
discretion. The policy document in use in 1987 shows that if Mr B had made a successful 
claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have paid the monthly benefit 
until Mr B returned to work (or retired) or the mortgage was redeemed  whichever 
happened sooner. And it would have paid the monthly benefit for up to 24 months per 
successful claim for unemployment. The period during which the monthly benefit would 
have been paid subsequently reduced to 12 months. But thats still longer than it looks 
as if Mr B could have been sure of receiving full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have 
paid out in addition to any payments Mr B received from his employer. And Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have had to use their savings to make their mortgage repayments.So taking everything into account, I think the policy provided Mr and Mrs B with valuable 
cover. The mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on their 
home. It looks as if Mr B was the main earner in the household. His sick pay wasnt 
guaranteed beyond six months, and without the PPI, I think there was a risk that Mr and 
Mrs B would have struggled to keep up with their monthly payments if Mr B was off sick 
for an extended period, or if he lost his job.
Its possible the information that Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that they 
chose to take out the PPI, and later to increase the cover, even if theyve understandably 
forgotten this now, so many years later. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover. The policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to make me think 
Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford it. And as they were paying for it monthly, they could have 
cancelled it at any time if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer 
wanted the cover.
So taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have 
made a different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, 
I think theyd still have taken out the policy. This means I dont think theyve lost out as a 
result of anything Bradford & Bingley may have done wrong. So I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint.
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about not 
having met with anyone from Bradford & Bingley about the mortgage. But this doesnt affect 
my view that it would have been clear from the paperwork that they had a choice about 
whether to take the cover. And for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have led them to make a different decision.
Theyve also questioned why theyd have agreed to take PPI in 1987 and 1992, given that 
they declined PPI when they borrowed further in 1989. I dont know why Mr and Mrs B 
decided against taking PPI in 1989. But this doesnt affect my view that they did decide to 
take it when they took out the mortgage in 1987, and when they took out the further advance 
in 1992. So these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman