DRN-4036172
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a claim she made on her pet insurance policy with Covea Insurance 
Plc. 
Covea are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Covea have accepted they are accountable for the 
actions of their agents, in my decision, any reference to Covea includes the actions of 
their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs M and Covea. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mrs M had a pet insurance policy with Covea. She purchased medication on 11 November 
2022, but unfortunately her pet passed away on 5 December 2022  meaning Mrs M had 
unused medication. When Mrs M made a claim against her policy, Covea wouldnt fully 
reimburse Mrs M, and instead said theyd only cover the cost of medication up until the point 
of her pet passing.
Mrs M was unhappy and raised a complaint with Covea. They didnt uphold the complaint 
and as she remained unhappy, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it 
be upheld. The complaint has now been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Did Covea fairly and reasonably consider this complaint, in line with the policy terms?
Covea have relied on the following policy exclusion to limit their liability in this claim:
Special conditions that apply to Section B, Sub Section 1A  Veterinary fees and 
Section B, Sub Section 1B - Complementary Treatment
2. If the claim includes medication, these costs will be subject to the maximum 
benefit that applies on the date the medication will be used.
This is a common policy exclusion in these types of policies and I find that Covea can fairly 
rely on it here. I accept what Mrs M has said about this policy term and its implications being 
unclear. So Ive then considered if there are any other mitigating factors I need to consider 
when deciding if Covea have treated Mrs M fairly. 
I find the phone call she had with Covea on 10 November 2022 to be compelling evidence. 
In this call (in summary), Mrs M contacted Covea - prior to ordering the three boxes of 
medication and asks what would happen should her pet pass before all medication was 
used. Mrs M adds that the illness is terminal and shes unsure whether to purchase, one, two 
or three months worth of medication. The adviser explains that any claim would be settled 
up until the point of her pet passing. Mrs M then says shed be better ordering one months 
worth at a time instead.
In my opinion, following this conversation, Mrs M ought to have been reasonably aware of 
what might happen in the event of a claim where her pet passed away. The prescription that 
Mrs M had for her pet dated 6 September 2022 was valid for up to six months and for up to 
12 bottles of the relevant medication. 
Mrs M subsequently went ahead and ordered three boxes/bottles of medication. For balance 
Ive also considered the relevant vet notes from 4 November 2022 which stated:
o [Owner] really not keen to pursue further tx, [Treatments] adv in that case need to 
monitor QOL. [Quality of life] If painful, bothering at food, not eating food, becoming 
lethargic then need to consider PTS.[Put to sleep]
Its unfortunate and sad that the pet passed away around 3 weeks after Mrs M placed her 
order, but I cant fairly conclude that the adviser was unclear or gave incorrect information 
that influenced Mrs Ms decision or can be fairly attributed to the subsequent financial loss. 
Mrs M has argued that if this claim had been settled within 14 days these issues wouldnt 
have arisen. But I dont find that the time taken to deal with the claim was unreasonable and 
from the claim notes it appears that Covea were awaiting further information from Mrs M and 
the third party vet shortly after the claim was first made. 
I understand what Mrs M has said about postal strikes and supply issues and recognise that 
as a responsible pet owner she wouldnt want her pet avoidably suffering. But my role here 
is to decide if Covea have fairly considered this claim - and I find that they have. 
Finally, Ive noted that Mrs M has commented on how Covea treated her overall and she 
wanted a goodwill gesture to recognise any impact. This will of course have been a very 
difficult time for Mrs M after losing her pet. But as Ive not found that Covea have treated 
Mrs M unfairly or poorly, to the extent that compensation would be appropriate - I wont be 
directing Covea to do anything further here.
Mrs M has also referred to this policy ending when her pet passed. That is not unusual and 
is generally intended to ensure a customer that is paying monthly for a policy isnt charged 
unnecessarily where there isnt an insurable risk any longer or where a customer has paid or 
a full policy year up front, theyd generally receive a pro-rata refund for the unused period of 
cover
In summary, I find that Covea have fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with 
the policy terms and applied the relevant deduction. I also find that Covea have treated 
Mrs M fairly and reasonably overall. 
My decision will disappoint Mrs M, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between her and Covea.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint - for the reasons explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman