DRN-2273501
The complaint
Mr N complains that Clear Score Technology Limited has recorded inaccurate information 
about him. He wants the information to be corrected and compensation.
What happened
Mr N tells us that Clear Score failed to maintain accurate records of his address. And that 
accounts that should be reported were removed from his record. He says this had the effect 
of suppressing his credit score. And meant that he was unable to apply for credit. Mr N 
further complains that Clear Score asked him for personal information about his salary and 
doesnt think his personal information was handled correctly.
Clear Score told us that Mr N had asked it, in early January 2020, to update his address as 
its record was showing his previous address. Clear Score explained that it obtained its 
information from a credit reference agency (CRA) which Ill refer to as E. And that it had 
occasionally experienced issues with how address data was sent to it by E. It said it had 
advised Mr N of two options as to how this issue might be resolved. It said this required a 
new account to be opened. And that it had requested details of Mr Ns income as it wanted 
to have accurate and up to date details before creating a new account. It also explained that 
were Mr N to take up any offers that Clear Score provided, as a broker, this information 
might impact the eligibility scores it displayed. It stated that Mr N hadnt been prepared to 
agree to either option. Clear Score advised us that later it had been able to change its 
process so that it was now able to update addresses without requiring a new account to be 
opened. And that it had now updated Mr Ns account.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He felt that Clear 
Score had given Mr N options in an effort to help him resolve the issues. And that it hadnt 
done anything wrong.
Mr N didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr N would be concerned that his personal information wasnt being 
reported correctly and that he felt that this might have an adverse effect on his credit score.
Im aware that Mr N has another complaint with this service that hes brought against the 
business, E.  Although unsurprisingly, the complaint issues cover much the same ground I 
want to make clear that the complaint to which this decision relates is concerned only with 
the actions of Clear Score.
Its not possible to issue one decision to cover two separate businesses. As the actions of 
each business must be assessed on its individual merits.
In summary, Mr Ns complaint is that by failing to update his address Clear Score has 
suppressed his credit rating. And affected his ability to obtain credit. He also objects to it 
seeking personal information from him and the way which its processing the information it 
holds on him.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In explaining my decision, I think it is helpful to clarify the role of this service. We are an 
informal resolution service and not a financial industry regulator. Thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Also, complaints about the processing of personal data are dealt with by 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
This means its not the role of this service to instruct financial businesses what processes 
they should adopt. Although we are able to able to look at the impact that any such process 
has on an individual.
Clear Score is not itself a CRA. Rather it provides credit information and broking services. Its 
reports allow its customers to see what is being reported about them by one of the CRAs. 
And the CRA from which Clear Score obtains the information it displays is E. Ive not seen 
information which shows that Clear Score has not accurately recorded information it 
received from E. Although it accepts that in one specific area it wasnt always updated by E.
Clear Score has provided an explanation which shows that it was aware of potential 
problems with address data obtained from E. Specifically that it was not always being sent 
updated address data. And for a period of time it (Clear Score) was unable to manually 
change this information on its report if it obtained such new information only direct from a 
customer.  
Clear Score further explained that the reason why all Mr Ns active accounts werent 
displayed was also due to the address issue. It said that because these accounts were 
initially linked to his previous address, they wouldnt have been visible on Clear Scores 
report. But that once the address issue had been resolved and updated, the reports were 
once again visible.
As a way to try to work round the problem, Clear Score had previously found that a customer 
opening a new account with their correct address provided a potential solution. And it 
suggested that solution to Mr N. And advised that either he or Clear Score could arrange for 
this to be done. As part of that process Mr N was initially asked to provide address data for 
three years (to which he agreed). But when he was later requested to provide more specific 
financial information, Mr N - as he was entitled to do - declined to provide anything further. 
Clear Score has provided what I find is a satisfactory explanation for these requests. And it 
respected Mr Ns decision not to provide the information or open a new account. I dont think 
it did anything wrong in the way it tried to help Mr N overcome the problem with the address. 
And even after Mr Ns decision it maintained efforts to resolve the issue. Its told us that it 
has now developed a feature which allows it to update addresses without relying on E. And 
said it had applied this to Mr Ns account and that this should prevent further inconvenience.In his view letter, our investigator said that if Mr N provided evidence that his Clear Score 
account was still not reflective of the correct position, he would explore it further. Ive not 
seen that Mr N has provided such information. I infer that the steps Clear Score has taken 
have corrected the problem.
Its also fair to say that a prospective lender wouldnt use Clear Score in order to view a 
potential borrowers credit history. It would go direct to the CRA of its choice. So any 
information held by Clear Score wouldnt directly impact on any financial application Mr N 
might make, nor affect his credit score.
In summary, I find that Clear Score acted fairly and in a timely manner to address the 
complaint issues raised by Mr N. It offered him what I think were reasonable options to 
resolve the problem. And when Mr N declined these options it continued to work on a 
solution which it appears was eventually successful. I shant ask Clear Score to do anything 
else and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman