DRN-3582632
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to refund payments he made to what 
he believed was a legitimate investments trading company (Olsson Capital).  Mr W made 
these payments using his HSBC Visa debit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, between March and April 2018, Mr W made several payments (using his HSBC 
Visa debit card) to what he thought was his trading account with Olsson Capital.  At the time, 
Mr W believed they were a legitimate investments trading company.  However, Mr W says, 
amongst other things, After two particularly large investments my account manager 
evaporated never to be seen or heard of again, there were anomalies on the trading platform 
and my money was characterised by OC [Olsson Capital] as loss in trading. The terrible truth 
struck home, I had been scammed.
Based on Mr Ws bank statements, below are all the (international) payments concerned, 
which I have identified Mr W made using his HSBC Visa debit card (credits are in italics):
Date Payee Amount
9 March 2018 MP1.me*olssoncapit £2,500
13 March 2018 olssoncapital £1,871
13 March 2018 olssoncapital £5,000
16 March 2018 olssoncapital (credit) £451
20 March 2018 MP1.me*olssoncapit (credit) £940
22 March 2018 MP1.me*olssoncapit £10,000
22 March 2018 MP1.me*olssoncapit £10,000
22 March 2018 MP1.me*weissfinanc £10,000
22 March 2018 MP1.me*weissfinanc £5,000
22 March 2018 olssoncapital £10,000
22 March 2018 weissfinance.com £10,000
22 March 2018 weissfinance.com £10,000
27 March 2018 MP1.me*weissfinanc £10,000
27 March 2018 MP1.me*wilkinsfina £10,000
9 April 2018 B2G GMBH £72,623
11 April 2018 B2G GMBH £75,000
20 June 2018 OLSSONCAPITAL (credit) £5,000
20 June 2018 MP1.ME*OLSSONCAPIT 
(credit)£10,000
Total amount debited less 
credits:£225,603
Mr W asked HSBC to recover his money.  Because this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it.  He thought that fraud 
triggers applied to Mr Ws payment of £10,000 on 22 March 2018 (fifth payment in the above 
chain).  He argued that there was no evidence to show HSBC provided Mr W with any 
meaningful warnings or gave him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he 
made.  The investigator held that this was a missed opportunity for HSBC to intervene, so he 
asked it to refund Mr W all the money he lost.
Mr W accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.
In the interest of conciseness, I will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully 
summarised its key points in the conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that that the adjudicators view is unsupportable. As such, we do not 
accept that we should be held responsible for [Mr Ws] loss for the following reasons:
The adjudicator does not take into account that the Payments were made to a series 
of different beneficiaries or that [Mr Ws] own account to us was that he was dealing 
with three separate companies;
The adjudicator references the FSA Consultation Paper, but the standards applied in 
the opinion are inconsistent with this. He does not explain the basis for his 
conclusions. His conclusion that this was a scam simply because [Mr W] was paying 
an international payee and investing in binary options does not bear basic scrutiny 
and is inconsistent with other decisions being received from your service;
There is no justification for the conclusion that we ought to be responsible for all of 
the Payments when the adjudicator finds that we ought to have been concerned by 
the fifth Payment. Even on the basis of the adjudicators reasoning (with which we do 
not agree) the award should be reduced by £19,371; and
The adjudicators contributory negligence assessment is fundamentally flawed and 
unsupportable. [Mr Ws] losses were directly referable to his failure to carry out any 
research and his actions were objectively reckless and inconsistent with how a 
reasonable person would have behaved, particularly given the sums he invested. 
The general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions 
should be applied in the present case.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 23 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
[Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.]
Having done so, I do not agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld in 
full.  However, I do think it should be upheld in part.  Further, because of the compensation 
limits I must observe, I am limited in terms of what I can direct HSBC to pay Mr W.  I set out 
my reasoning below.
Chargeback
For completeness, I have considered whether Mr W had any chargeback rights regarding 
his payments.  Having done so, I am not satisfied he did.  I say this because Mr W does 
not have the necessary evidence required under the Visa chargeback scheme.Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations.  It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr W for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009/2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  
This is because they were made by Mr W using the legitimate security credentials provided 
to them by HSBC.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr W 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams.  As long 
ago as June 2012, the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) predecessor indicated  in its 
consultation paper entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for firms to build up 
an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share 
timely and detailed intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, 
etc.  Whilst the regulator gave no specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect 
an international bank to update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, 
one month of an alert being posted by the FCA or on the Investor Alerts Portal of the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO).  In my judgment, such 
alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bells  and lead to the payment being paused  
pending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
Fraud triggers
In Mr Ws case, the FCAs warning about Olsson Capital was published on 28 March 2018.  
This was before most of the payments concerned, and less than a month before Mr Ws 
payments on 9 April and 11 April 2018.  For these reasons, I do not think HSBC ought to 
have automatically blocked these payments.Notwithstanding this, in light of the significant amount of Mr Ws two (international) payments 
on 13 March 2018 for £1,871 and £5,000  especially when taken together  I do think there 
are fraud triggers here.
It appears there was some issue with these payments.  I say this because I have heard a 
telephone call between Mr W and HSBC about making a £6,871 (£1,871+£5,000) payment 
to Olsson Capital.  During that call, amongst other things, HSBC provided Mr W with 30 
minutes to make the payment mentioned.
In the course of the call, I would have expected HSBC to have asked Mr W suitably probing 
questions about the payment he wanted to make, rather than simply allowing him to do so  
particularly given Mr W had mentioned Olsson Capital by name.  If HSBC had done this, I do 
not doubt Mr W would have explained what the payment was for and what he was doing.  In 
turn, HSBC would have had an opportunity to provide Mr W with a meaningful and robust 
scam warning  as well as, for example, informing him that it is common practice in the type 
of scam concerned, for the scammers to make token credits to induce the innocent victim 
into making further payments.  Moreover, HSBC could have invited Mr W to check whether 
Olsson Capital were regulated by the FCA (as required at the time) and he would have 
discovered they were not.
I am of the view that had Mr W been told the above, this would have dissuaded him from 
continuing with the payment  which in turn, would have prevented the subsequent 
payments he made. 
Further, I can see that Mr W also spoke to HSBC over the telephone about the £72,623 
payment he made on 9 April 2018.  Again, during this call, HSBC did not ask Mr W any 
probing questions about the payment, nor provide him with a scam warning.  HSBC simply 
asked Mr W if he was satisfied with the beneficiaries bank details  despite the payment 
being international and for a significantly large amount.  I should also highlight the fact that at 
this point, the FCAs warning about Olsson Capital had been published (28 March 2018).  
Had HSBC questioned Mr W about the payment and what he was doing  I would have 
expected the FCA warning to come to light, which in turn HSBC should have put to Mr W.
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect Mr W from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have invited him to check whether the payee was registered with 
the FCA.  It could have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like 
Olsson Capital in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available 
balances etc.  After all, at that time, there was information in the public domain  which a 
bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not  about the very high risks 
associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action 
Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 
warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; the 
Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely 
operating illegally; and Visas business news 26 October 2017 and so forth).
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr W with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making.  It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Causation
If HSBC had asked Mr W what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with the merchant.  HSBC did not need to know for certain whether Mr W was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice.  I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options.
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr W would have paused and looked more 
closely into Olsson Capital before proceeding.  It seems more probable that Mr W would 
have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not Olsson Capital 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above).  In other 
words, I am satisfied that a warning from HSBC would probably have exposed Golden 
Markets [Olsson Capitals] false pretences, causing Mr W to stop trading and preventing 
further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).  I do not place too much weight on general but arcane information 
in the public domain for reasons previously alluded to about the information imbalance 
between financial professionals and ordinary consumers.  
In Mr Ws submissions, I can see he says, amongst other things, They [Olsson Capital] 
described themselves as new to the UK, situated in Canary Wharf and in anticipation of 
receiving FCA registration.  Despite this, Mr W made payments to Olsson Capital.  To my 
mind, based on what Olsson Capital had told Mr W  particularly about FCA regulation  he 
should have carried out further due diligence, rather than making the payments he did. 
Therefore, I take the view that Mr W should bear some responsibility for what happened.  
And so, I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 20%.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded to say he had nothing further to add.  HSBC responded stating, in very 
broad summary:
The provisional decision is formulaic and templated.
It is unlikely that if HSBC had intervened, it would have been able to dissuade Mr W 
from continuing to trade.
There is nothing to show a link between Olsson Capital and the various merchants 
Mr W made payments to.
The 20% deduction for contributory negligence I suggested is inadequate.
I will deal with each of these points in turn below.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Formulaic and templated provisional decision
HSBC should not be surprised to receive similar outcomes on cases with similar features.  I 
say this because it is aware that the scams in question broadly follow the same pattern to 
lure people into what they are led to believe is a genuine investment.  Where we find fraud 
triggers apply to a payment(s)  we will consider whether the bank concerned intervened 
and provided their customer with a relevant scam warning; and if it did not do this, whether 
such a warning would have made a difference in the circumstances.  Our Service has found 
that in several cases, the outcomes will invariably be the same  save for some individual 
circumstances.
HSBC is reminded of its obligations to comply with DISP 1.4.2  to appropriately analyse 
ombudsmen decisions concerning similar complaints it receives; and DISP 1.3.2A  to 
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling.
Intervention
HSBC says, amongst other things, [Mr W] already knew that [Olsson Capital] were not FCA 
regulated (as acknowledged in the PD). Therefore the PDs conclusion that had Mr W been 
told [to check whether Olsson Capital were regulated by the FCA], this would have 
dissuaded him from continuing with the payment  which in turn, would have prevented the 
subsequent payments he made is undermined entirely by the fact that [Mr W] was armed 
with this knowledge from the outset but that this did not cause him to stop trading or to carry 
out further due diligence into the merchant and the type of investments he was dealing with.
HSBC has slightly taken what it has quoted from my provisional findings out of context.  In 
any event, I acknowledge the point it is attempting to make here.  However, if HSBC had 
provided Mr W with a robust and meaningful scam warning, it should not have simply set out 
the fact Olsson Capital were not FCA regulated.  I would have expected such a warning to 
have gone further  for example, properly delineating the risks about potential investment 
scams.  I say this in particular because during the period Mr W made his payments  there 
was more than sufficient information in the public domain about the very high risks 
associated with binary options including many warnings of potential fraud.  This includes, but 
not limited to, FCA publications on the matter.  Further, banks have more of an insight about 
the deceptive tactics companies such as Olsson Capital use  which should be highlighted 
to their customers and probing questions asked where necessary.
Therefore, had HSBC provided Mr W with a robust and meaningful scam warning, I am 
persuaded, on balance, that this would have dissuaded him from continuing with the 
payment concerned  which in turn, would have prevented the subsequent payments he 
made. 
Link between Olsson Capital and other merchants
Mr W has provided evidence showing his Olsson Capital account history.  Having 
considered this, I am satisfied that there is a link between Olsson Capital and the other 
merchants he made payments to in order to deposit his trading account.  I say this because 
the payments in question tally up with deposits shown on Mr Ws Olsson Capital account 
history.
I should highlight the fact that the evidence I am referring to is included in HSBCs business 
file which it provided to this Service.
Contributory negligenceI acknowledge that Mr W could have done more to protect himself  particularly given the 
fact Olsson Capital are not regulated (albeit Mr W says they told him at the time that they 
were anticipating this).  As a result, I have suggested a deduction for contributory 
negligence.  That said, Mr Ws own failings do not absolve HSBC of all its responsibilities as 
the financial professional in its relationship with Mr W.
For the reasons already given (and by other ombudsmen in other cases), it is not unrealistic 
to expect a bank to intervene when a customers payments suddenly change pattern and 
become unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with the way the account has been run 
in recent times.  Such activity is a clear indicator of potential fraud, so triggers the banks 
obligations to monitor and undertake due diligence, which are independent of any duties the 
customer may also owe.
In Mr Ws case, there were clearly issues with the payment I say fraud triggers apply to.  
This is highlighted in the telephone call which occurred between Mr W and HSBC referred to 
in my provisional findings  something which HSBC has not commented on in its response.  
Despite these issues, HSBC did not provide Mr W with a scam warning. 
Apportioning liability for contributory negligence is not an exact science.  With this in mind, I 
have reflected on the fact that although Olsson Capital told him they were anticipating FCA 
regulation  he nevertheless made the payments he did.  Having done so, I am still satisfied 
that a 20% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us); plus any 
interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I consider appropriate. 
In Mr Ws case, the complaint event occurred before 1 April 2019 and the complaint was 
referred to us after 1 April 2020 but before 1 April 2022 (it was referred to us in October 
2020), so the applicable compensation limit would be £160,000.
If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Decision and award: 
I uphold this complaint in part.  I think that fair compensation is £223,103, including 
any applicable transaction fees  but subject to a 20% deduction for contributory 
negligence; plus
0.10% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ws account until 
the date of settlement.  
To be clear, this includes all the payments Mr W made from 13 March 2018, less 
credits to his account.
(Mr W says that the source of the money to fund the investment scam came from his savings 
accounts with HSBC UK Bank Plc and another bank.  He also says the interest on both 
accounts was 0.10%.)My provisional decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr W £160,000; plus 
0.10% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ws account until 
the date of settlement.
Recommendation: 
I think fair compensation is more than £160,000, so I recommend that HSBC UK 
Bank Plc pays Mr W the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  HSBC UK Bank Plc 
does not have to do what I recommend.  It is unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr W may want to get independent 
legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman