DRN-4254176
The complaint
Mr H complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) provided him with lending 
which was unaffordable. 
Mr Hs complaint has been brought on his behalf by a CMC which Ill refer to as T. My 
references to submissions made by Mr H include those submitted on his behalf.
What happened
Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in June 2017 to acquire a 
car. The cash price was £5,995 and the total he was required to repay was £10,811.49 via 
44 monthly instalments of £251.43.
Mr H paid the agreement until April 2021. Moneybarn wrote off outstanding sums owing in 
July 2022 and the agreement was ended. 
In January 2023 Mr H complained that the agreement had been unaffordable. He highlighted 
that hed been left with little to no money each month, was living in his overdraft, missing 
payments and struggling to meet essential bills. He said that Moneybarn hadnt asked any 
questions to establish whether he could sustainably repay the agreement.
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it had checked Mr Hs credit file and asked him for 
evidence of his income at the outset. It also suggested that Mr Hs ability to repay the 
agreement couldve been impacted due to ill health which had affected his ability to work. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They werent persuaded that Moneybarn had 
carried out a proportionate check of Mr Hs ability to repay the agreement. But they 
ultimately concluded that if it had asked further questions, it likely wouldve reached the 
same lending decision because it seemed that Mr H had sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably meet the repayments, based on the evidence which had now been supplied.
T asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that Mr Hs bank statements showed he was 
quite overdrawn and possibly using that overdraft to repay his agreement. It also said Mr H 
had gambling transactions on his bank statements. It provided comments from Mr H about 
having paid his bills using cash, which accounted for a number of cash withdrawals on his 
bank statements.
Our investigator accepted its possible that Mr H may have paid various bills in cash, but said 
theyd already taken that into account due to specific bills, such as utilities, being absent 
from his bank statements. Even taking into account what had now been said, our 
investigator maintained that the evidence showed Mr H had sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably repay the agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Moneybarn and T will be familiar with the rules, regulation and good industry practice 
we take into account in considering complaints about unaffordable and/ or irresponsible 
lending. As a result, I dont find it necessary to set it all out in this decision. In any case, 
information about our approach to these types of complaint can be found on our website. 
At the outset I acknowledge that its clear to see that Mr H struggled in making repayments 
towards this agreement. Ive seen there was number of payment arrangements and arrears 
accrued regularly before the agreement was ultimately repaid. I cant say for sure why thats 
the case  theres been mention of Mr Hs ability to work being affected by unfortunate ill 
health, which could be a major factor. But its for me to decide whether Moneybarn gave Mr 
H lending which was unaffordable, based on the information it (ought to have) gathered at 
the time of the application. 
Moneybarn has shown that before deciding to lend to Mr H it sought information about his 
income by way of checking three weekly payslips. From those payslips it calculated that Mr 
H earned £1,761.73 per month, which Ive found is slightly lower than the average income 
the payslips show. Whilst its not a particularly long period of assessment, I think it was a 
reasonable way to check Mr Hs income nonetheless.
Moneybarn also says it did a credit check  which it cant provide a copy of  and that 
showed Mr H had a default applied seven months prior to his application. Mr H has also 
shown  by way of bank statements  that hed been in an overdraft consistently in the run 
up to the application. I think that wouldve likely been represented on his credit file. I dont 
know for sure what else Moneybarns check uncovered, but I think that while what Ive 
mentioned above isnt a reason for Moneybarn not to lend to Mr H, it is an indicator of 
financial instability and a reason it ought to have asked further questions.
Taking this into account, I think Moneybarn ought to have done further checks into Mr Hs 
financial position and personal circumstances to establish whether the lending it 
subsequently provided was affordable for him or not. It could have, for example, asked to 
see copies of Mr Hs bank statements or asked him further questions about his expenditure. 
It wasnt required to ask for either of those things specifically, but theyre nonetheless 
examples of things it couldve done as part of a reasonable and proportionate check. 
In his submission to this service Mr H said his monthly income was £1,550. His committed 
expenditure (excluding this agreement and associated costs) totalled £1,685. Mr H has also 
provided bank statements around the time of his applications. I think its reasonable to rely 
on whats on those statements as a broad indication of Mr Hs financial position at the time, 
and theyre likely representative of what Moneybarn wouldve found if it had asked him 
further questions.
Dealing firstly with Mr Hs income  as above, I think the figure Moneybarn arrived at was a 
reasonable one given their checks. However, I also think its fair to say that calculating Mr 
Hs income at the time isnt straight forward given that it seems  from his bank statements  
that it wasnt consistent. 
In his submission to this service Mr H says his monthly income was £1,550. However, from 
what Ive seen it seems that his income in the months leading up to the application could 
have actually exceeded the figure used by Moneybarn by as much as £500 per month. In 
any case Ive used the same, arguably conservative, figure that Moneybarn did. Ive also 
taken into account that Mr H seemed to be in receipt of a regular benefit payment of just in 
excess of £100 per month.
Its fair to say that it seems Mr Hs committed expenditure varied during in the run up to his 
application, but on average it seems that his essential living costs  rent/ mortgage payments other essential bills such as telecommunication accounts as well as council tax for 
example, came to around £500 per month. Regular payments to other creditors seemed to 
be about £200 per month on average. 
I accept that not all of the utilities I wouldve expected to see were present on Mr Hs bank 
statements  in particular it seems water, electricity and gas bills arent present. In his 
submission to this service Mr H said that those bills cost £200 per month. Hes also 
subsequently said they were paid in cash. I accept this is plausible as his statements show a 
number of regular cash withdrawals.
And I also accept its difficult to identify how much Mr H wouldve spent on food on average  
its difficult to say exactly from his bank statements. Mr H has suggested his food bills 
totalled in excess of £400 per month. I cant say for sure whether thats a plausible amount 
and whether its a figure Moneybarn wouldve likely arrived at had it asked further questions 
of Mr H. However, even if I accept that was the case, in total it would have taken Mr Hs 
approximate average monthly committed expenditure to around £1,300.  
As Ive set out above, it seems to me that if Moneybarn had carried out further checks of Mr 
Hs financial position, it likely that it wouldve found that Mr Hs average regular income, by 
way of his salary as well as any benefit payments, totalled around £1,850 per month. Taking 
into account his average committed expenditure, it seems he ought to have been left with 
minimum amount of around £550 per month. It suggests that Mr H ought to have had 
sufficient disposable income to able to sustainably repay the cost of the agreement, as well 
as any associated costs of running the car. 
I accept that Mr Hs bank statements show some gambling transactions. As Ive explained 
above, there wasnt an obligation for Moneybarn to have asked to see those bank 
statements, so I dont think it necessarily wouldve seen that if it had asked further questions 
as Id have expected it to. Additionally, in my view the transactions werent of particularly 
high value, nor sufficiently frequent to the extent that I think it ought to have caused 
Moneybarn to consider that it couldve impacted on Mr Hs ability to repay the agreement. 
So, even if they had been aware of those transactions, I doubt it wouldve affected its lending 
decision.  
Lastly, Mr H has recently made some comments about expenses he had at the time in 
respect of maintenance costs towards a shared car which was used for work. Hes said the 
cost for this was paid in cash. Mr H hasnt been specific about how much this cost, nor do I 
think weve seen persuasive evidence to show its a cost he incurred at the time of his 
application. Significantly, its also not a cost that he included in the expenditure breakdown 
provided in his submission to this service, so I dont think I could fairly say its a cost 
Moneybarn wouldve identified as regular committed expenditure even if it had asked further 
questions. I dont, therefore, think it ought to be taken into account in determining whether 
this agreement was affordable.
In summary, and for all of the reasons explained above, I find that if Moneybarn had 
completed further checks into whether or not this agreement was affordable for Mr H, it likely 
wouldve reached the same lending decision and the agreement wouldve gone ahead. I 
dont find that the lending it gave Mr H was unaffordable.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman