DRN-3630058
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) did not prevent her from falling victim to a 
scam and wont refund the money shes lost.
What happened
Miss A says she sent payments to someone who was selling wellness products, but she 
didnt receive any goods and the seller stopped communicating with her: She made the 
following payments via a money transfer service to an international bank account.
Date Amount
08/06/21 £100
21/06/21 £120
19/07/21 £130
02/08/21 £160
Miss A is unhappy that Metro has only agreed to refund 50% of the first payment. 
Metro says that it should have done more to advise Miss A about scams, but Miss A didnt 
complete adequate checks to ensure the seller was legitimate. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss As complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
said there was nothing unusual about the payments to alert Metro to the possibility of fraud 
and that Metro did what it could to recover Miss As funds, but none remained. 
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said:
- £100 was a large amount and should have been flagged by Metro.
- Metro promised it would provide a full refund if she provided additional information.
- She is vulnerable but this hasnt been taken into account. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro has assessed Miss As complaint under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). But the CRM Code only applies to payments to 
GDP denominated UK domiciled accounts and so isnt relevant here. For other reasons my 
decision wouldnt change if I were to assess Miss As complaint under the CRM Code 
though. 
Even though Miss A was the victim of a scam, the four payments she made were 
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. This means that the starting position 
is that Metro had an obligation to follow Miss As payment instructions, and Miss A is 
presumed liable for her loss in the first instance. 
But there are circumstances in which a bank should make additional checks before 
processing a payment, or, in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect its customer from the possibility of financial harm. But I dont consider the four 
payments Miss A made were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to her normal activity 
that they ought reasonably to have alerted Metro to the possibility that she may be at risk of 
financial harm. So Im not asking Metro to do anything more. 
The payments Miss A made to the scammer were for relatively modest amounts. They were 
also made over an eight-week period and didnt clear Miss As account of funds so were not 
typical of scam payments. The payments were made to a money transfer service  but Im 
not persuaded this fact alone meant Metro should have had any concerns about them. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider Metro needs to refund anything but note it has already 
refunded half of the first payment. 
Miss A has said that the payments were large and should have been flagged but I dont 
agree. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests they cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. I appreciate the loss has had an impact on Miss 
A, but I dont believe it would be reasonable to expect Metro to have taken any additional 
steps when the payments were made.
Miss A has also said she is vulnerable, and this hasnt been taken into account. Miss A 
accepts though that she didnt make Metro aware of any vulnerability before making the 
payments, so it had no reason to take additional steps to protect her.  
Overall, Im not satisfied that Metro acted unreasonably in processing the payments without 
interacting with Miss A. 
Miss A says Metro told her that if she provided it with evidence it would reimburse her in full. 
Ive listened to the relevant call in which Metro agreed to refund 50% of the first payment 
Miss A made. Miss A was advised that she should provide additional evidence which would 
be evaluated. At no point was Miss A told that simply providing the evidence would result in 
a full refund.
Ive seen evidence that Metro contacted the beneficiary bank on the day Miss A reported the 
scam to it. But unfortunately, no funds have been returned. This is not unusual when funds 
are sent abroad. So I think Metro acted promptly and did what it could to help Miss A recover 
her funds once it was aware of what happened. 
Im really sorry to hear that Miss A has been the victim of a scam but I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable of me to require Metro to reimburse Miss As loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman