DRN-3191222
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) charged him a higher excess for each 
claim when his dog reached 10 years old. He says he wasnt told this would happen when 
he took the policy out. 
What happened
In 2011, Mr S took out a Covered for Life Classic Plan for his dog. He says his dog is now 
10, and hes been told for any claims made hell be charged his usual excess of £115, plus a 
20% co-payment of the veterinary fees. Mr S feels this is unfair and to put things right, hed 
like Allianz to remove the extra 20% on the excess payments.
Allianz said the policy provided up to £4,000 of veterinary fees cover each policy year. And it 
considers the commitment it made to provide lifetime cover and pay claims for ongoing 
illnesses means it is necessary to increase some costs. It says rather than increasing 
premiums, it applied a percentage increase to excess payments. Allianz said it had notified 
Mr S of this change when it sent the 2019  2020 policy documents. However, as a gesture 
of goodwill, it had reduced Mr S policy premiums by 10% for the current policy year. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators. She said she thought Allianz should pay £300 
compensation for the distress Mr S experienced as a result of this change not being 
highlighted to him when he took the policy out. Allianz didnt agree, so this matter has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has sent us a copy of the policy terms it sent to Mr S when he took out the Covered 
for Life Classic Plan. These are dated May 2011 and the policy taken out in December 2011. 
The policy terms include a reference to Allianz being entitled to change the policy excess. 
However, Allianz considers it gave advance notice of how the excess is charged, and 
referred to the below section of the 2011 policy terms:
What are the significant exclusions and limitations of my pets policy?
For Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment, the excess that applies to the 
cover for your pet will either be a fixed amount only or a fixed amount and a 
percentage amount. This will be shown on your Certificate of Insurance Animal 
Details.
However, I dont consider this clause in itself to be specifically clear that there would be such 
a change that took effect when Mr S dog turned 10. I say this because there is no specific 
mention of the 20% co-payment of any veterinary fees when Mr S dog turned 10 years old.
Allianz say this was specifically mentioned in the 2019 policy terms, but these were sent to 
Mr S some seven year after he took the policy out.  
I consider it would have been more helpful if Mr S had been made aware when he 
purchased the policy that this co-payment would be introduced when his dog reached a 
particular age. Had Mr S known this at time he bought the policy, he might have made a 
different decision about whether this policy was the right one for him.
That being said, I think it more likely he still would have taken out this policy. This is because 
it would guarantee cover for conditions Mr S dog developed while the cover was in place, 
regardless of the fact that the co-payment was introduced. I say this on the basis there has 
been a number of claims made under the policy, since it was taken out in 2011. And I think it 
is likely other policies on the market would likely have cost Mr S more for a comparative level 
of cover.
Its not for this service to say what level of excess should be charged, so I wont be requiring 
Allianz to make a change to the way the excess is charged. But I agree Mr S has been 
caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by the introduction of this payment not being 
made clearer to him when he took the policy out. I dont consider the fact he was given a 
years notice to be adequate, given the significant nature of the change.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr S £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman