DRN-2142284
The complaint
Miss T says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss T took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1999 during a meeting at a branch and PPI was 
added to her account at around the same time.
After so many years, Miss T cant remember much about the sale but recalls Lloyds telling 
her she had to have the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ts complaint didnt uphold it. Miss T disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI and Ive taken that 
into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
From the copy credit agreement Miss T signed, I think Lloyds made her aware the PPI was 
optional  its described as an optional feature. And Miss Ts form has been ticked for PPI to 
be added, so I think she agreed to it. If Miss T hadnt wanted PPI, there was an equally clear 
option to tick to say she didnt want it. 
Miss T says she was told by Lloyds she had to have the PPI. But she hasnt given us 
anything to back-up what she says. And Miss T has been clear she doesnt remember much 
about the sale  which isnt surprising after so many years. But it means her testimony alone 
 which is very general  isnt enough for me to think its likely Lloyds applied unfair pressure 
on her to take it out.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss T, it had to check it was right for her. And, based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, I cant see 
shed have been affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. Her credit 
card application form shows Miss T had been in her job for one month but shes told us she 
was probably in full-time employment before then, although she cant remember the details. 
Likewise Miss T cant remember what her sick pay was at the time  but, having been in her 
role for around a month, I dont think it was likely to be significant. And she says any savings 
she had at the time were likely to be insignificant. The PPI benefits wouldve have paid out 
on top of any sick pay she got, for up to 12 months for each successful claim. 
Overall, I think shed have found the PPI useful. And theres nothing to make me think she 
couldnt afford it.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, as Ive said, I think she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it looks as though it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. So I 
dont think clearer information about the PPI wouldve stopped Miss T going ahead with it.
Miss T says shes had other complaints about the sale of PPI by Lloyds upheld and she 
doesnt see why this complaint is different. I cant comment on Miss Ts other complaints. All 
I can say is that, in this case, I dont have enough information for me to think it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold it.
So Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of all of the PPI to Miss T.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss T because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Miss T about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Miss T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Miss T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman