DRN-4203878
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have incorrectly fitted a pipe at his home 
following a subsidence claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr B has concerns over the quality of works Avivas contractors did when replacing a pipe in 
his bathroom. He says that the pipe is incorrect and therefore it will block over time.
Aviva says it reviewed the workmanship and its satisfied with how the pipe has been 
installed.
Mr B would like Aviva to offer an indemnity for the works that it has completed in case 
anything goes wrong.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and said theres no evidence to support Mr Bs 
concerns, and he didnt direct Aviva to do anything further. Mr B disagreed with our 
investigator, saying Aviva didnt put the pipe back as it was, and hed like them to provide a 
guarantee or indemnity for the works.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and Ill explain why.
Avivas contractors have said that in order to replace the pipe exactly as it was, wouldve 
required extensive works in removing the bathtub, waste pipes, part of the floor and would 
impact the tiling. It mayve also meant that Mr B wouldve had to move out into temporary 
accommodation whilst this work was carried out.
Instead, a replacement could be achieved by a slightly small reroute which avoided a great 
deal of inconvenience to Mr B and this work is behind the bath panel. I appreciate that the 
finished look of the work was different to what he had before, however this doesnt mean that 
the functionality of the pipe is any different.
Aviva had a plumber out to look at the works that were completed and they agreed with the 
contractors approach. Without any evidence from Mr B to show theres something wrong 
with the works done, rather than Mr Bs personal dislike of the cosmetic finish, Im unable to 
say Aviva have done anything wrong.
I dont consider it necessary for Aviva to provide a guarantee or warranty specifically for the 
pipe work. This is because all work thats been carried out by Aviva, and their appointed 
contractors, is covered by the claim. That means if its shown at a later date that Avivas 
works have been sub-standard or incorrect, Id expect Aviva to review and rectify to ensure a 
lasting and effective repair to the claim has been fulfilled.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman