DRN-2743216
The complaint
Mrs C complains Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked and closed her account, and it is holding 
on to her funds. She wants her funds returned and compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience she has been caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont detail everything 
which happened. But in summary:
- Mrs C held an account with Santander. In 2019 Santander conducted a review on 
payments made to the account and prevented Mrs C from accessing it. It asked Mrs 
C for proof of the source of payments which she says were made by her employer. 
Mrs C provided some information, which Santander werent satisfied by. It decided to 
close her account and retained a large amount of the funds that were held within it.
- Mrs C complained to Santander. She insists the payments were from an employer, 
and she cannot provide further proof than she has. She says her employer has since 
moved to another country and isnt contactable.
- Santander rejected Mrs Cs complaint, so she bought it to our service. An investigator 
found Santander was able to close her account and it could hold the funds in order to 
meet its legal and regulatory obligations.
Mrs C asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why:
- Santander has broad legal and regulatory responsibilities. And to meet some of those 
responsibilities it may need to review account activity and put in place measures to 
prevent access to funds. Looking at all the information available to me, I understand 
Santanders basis for wanting to review the account and prevent Mrs C from 
accessing it during the review. I also find it didnt cause unnecessary delay when 
conducting its review.
- Santander could decide to close Mrs Cs account. It is after all a business and can 
decide who it wants as a customer. But it still needed to follow the correct account 
terms to close her account. Considering the information before me, Im satisfied it 
reasonably applied the terms of the account to close it the way it did.
- Mrs C says she is entitled to the funds which were held in her account. I have 
considered very carefully the evidence she provided, including her employment 
contract and invoices for services. But I have also weighed her evidence against all 
the other evidence and information I have. And based on everything I have seen, Im 
satisfied Santander has a robust basis to still question the source of the funds. So, I 
find it can continue to hold on to the funds in line with its legal and regulatory 
responsibilities.
For the reasons I have given, I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I wont be 
directing Santander to return the funds previously held in Mrs Cs account to her. Nor will I 
be directing Santander to pay her compensation.
My final decision
I have decided to not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman