DRN-4431921
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr O was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £3,300.06 and the agreement was for £46,889.94 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £801.67 and a final payment of £22,019.94. At 
the time of supply, the car was almost three years old, and had done 23,411 miles.
On 12 September 2022, Mr O took the car back to the supplying dealership because it was 
juddering when accelerating and making a thudding noise when changing from park to 
reverse or drive. Mr O says he was told this fault was caused by water getting into the 
transfer box. The dealership changed the oil, which they say rectified the fault
On 3 October 2022, the car was recovered to the dealership due to the oil pressure being 
too low to allow the car to continue to be driven. The oil filter was changed. On 27 October 
2022, the car was again back with the dealership due to the oil pressure light illuminating. 
This time a new solenoid and oil pump were fitted.
In January 2023, the car was returned to the dealership because the central display system 
and the parking sensors werent working. Repairs were again carried out. Finally, in July 
2023, the car went back to the dealership due to it juddering on acceleration. The dealership 
diagnosed a failure of the transfer box
Mr O initially complained to BMW in October 2022, about the water ingress into the transfer 
box. And he asked to reject the car. BMW responded, saying the dealership had repaired the 
car. They also said the dealership had offered to buy the car back, or compensate Mr O. So, 
they thought the dealership had acted fairly.
Mr O complained to BMW again in February 2023, saying the issues with the transfer box 
remained. And, in May 2023, he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for investigation.
Our investigator said the car had suffered multiple faults which, due to the fact the car had 
travelled less than 30,000 miles, made it of an unsatisfactory quality. As such, the 
investigator said that Mr O should now be allowed to reject the car, receive a refund of the 
deposit hed paid, and that BMW should pay him an additional £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He said the offer made by the dealership to take 
back the car and give him £1,000 compensation wasnt acceptable as hed paid a £3,300 
deposit, so he wouldnt be put back in the position he was before he financed the car. He 
also said that the dealership failed to advise him the car had been owned and used in Spain 
(where it was in an accident and had been poorly repaired), or that when a service took 
place it was 4,000 miles overdue. And he thinks this was the underlying cause of the faults 
with the car. He also didnt think the car shouldve been sold as an Approved Used vehicle.
Mr O said, I used the vehicle when it was faulty I had no choice and I was without use of 
the vehicle for long periods of time between September 2022 and still up to July 2023 and 
have no reasonable enjoyment or reliability out of the car in return for my monthly 
payments. Because of this, he thought that most or all the payments hed made should be 
refunded to him, and the £350 compensation does by no means adequately compensate 
me.
Because Mr O didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr O to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr O took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied there was a fault with the car. The car was 
repaired three times during September and October 2022, and on each occasion these 
repairs were oil related. These faults occurred within six months of the car being supplied to 
Mr O, and I havent seen anything to show me the faults werent present or developing at the 
point of supply. Whats more, given the car was around three years old, and had done 
around 26,000 miles at the time, I dont think any reasonable person would expect these 
faults to occur so soon. As such, Im not satisfied the car was reasonably durable.Given the above, Im satisfied the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
And the job sheet for 5 July 2023 shows the fault still exists. As such, BMW should do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for BMW  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, as was the case here, then the Mr 
O has the right of rejection. And Im satisfied he should now be given this right.
Mr O has said he was without use of the car for long periods between September 2022 and 
July 2023. However, hes also said that he had no choice to use the car while it was faulty. 
From the evidence Ive seen, the issues with the transfer box have been described by all 
parties as being intermittent. As such, by the nature of an intermittent fault, this is not 
something that wouldve affected the car continuously. And, while Mr O has said he wasnt 
able to use the car for long periods, hes not been able to evidence this i.e., by way of emails 
to the dealership or BMW explaining the car has broken down again etc. Whats more, when 
there were problems with the car, and it was taken to the dealership for repair, the evidence 
shows that Mr O was provided with a courtesy car.
As such, on the balance of probabilities Im satisfied that Mr O was able to use the car while 
it was in his possession (or it was available for him to use if he wished to do so), and he was 
kept mobile when the car wasnt in his possession. So, I think its only fair that he pays for 
this usage.
Mr O has referred to the amount of payments hes paid to BMW, and how he thinks its unfair 
hes not received any value for what hes paid. While the payments are high, this is based on 
the high value of the car and the relatively small deposit he paid. And, for the reasons 
already given, Im satisfied its fair that Mr O pays for the usage (or the availability of usage) 
hes had. As such, the amount Mr O has paid doesnt alter my view on this.
Mr O has also referred to the car being used in Spain, and having been involved in an 
accident, and the fact this wasnt disclosed to him. While Im considering the actions of 
BMW, not the dealership, this isnt something Id necessarily expect to be disclosed  the 
geographical location of where a car was used, especially when the car is of a UK spec, 
doesnt affect its suitability to be sold, nor does that fact it was involved in an accident, so 
long as the car wasnt classed as a Cat A of Cat B (and Ive seen nothing to show me this 
was the case). I also havent seen anything to show me that BMW were aware of the 
accident, or where the previous owner drove the car. As such, Im satisfied this has no 
bearing on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable remedy.
Finally, Mr O has referred to a late service and that he doesnt think the car shouldve been 
classed as Approved Used. While I appreciate Mr Os concerns about the service, the car 
was serviced, albeit later than recommended by the manufacturer. I havent seen anything 
that shows me it was the late service that caused the faults with the car but, even if this was 
the case, it doesnt alter my view that Mr O has the right of rejection.With regards to the Approved Used status of the car, this isnt something BMW were 
involved in. So, this is a complaint Mr O would need to raise directly with the dealership.
However, regardless of the above, its clear that Mr O has been inconvenienced by having to 
arrange for the car to be repaired, and by this repair being unsuccessful. And he was further 
inconvenienced by having to take the car back for further repair on multiple occasions. So, I 
think BMW should compensate him for this. The investigator had recommended BMW pay 
him £350. I appreciate that Mr O doesnt think this is enough, but it is in line with our 
services approach and what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I 
see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, BMW should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr O;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Os credit file;
refund the £3,300.06 deposit Mr O paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of 
funds paid through a dealer contribution, BMW is entitled to retain that proportion of 
the deposit);
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr O made 
the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr O an additional £350 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW to take off tax from this interest. BMW must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman