DRN-4098056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the poor service they received from Hamilton Financial 
(Scotland) Ltd (Hamilton Financial). They say:
Money was left uninvested.
Their quarterly income payments almost halved, with no explanation.
Hamilton Financial tried to persuade them to invest for the long term, which is not what 
they wanted.
Theyve not received a clear offer or explanation of what happened, and they feel 
Hamilton Financial was dismissive of their concerns.
They want compensation for the lost income and investment potential, an explanation of 
what happened, and compensation for the stress theyve been caused.
What happened
In January 2017, Mr and Mrs G signed an advisory agreement with Hamilton Financial. Their 
objective was between income and balanced; they were assessed as having a medium 
attitude to risk; and they had a five to ten year time horizon for their investment. They both 
opened a general investment account (GIA) and an ISA. Their investments were held on a 
third-party platform and Hamilton Financial provided advice and half yearly reviews. All 
recommendations needed Mr and Mrs Gs agreement before they could take place.
In March 2021, Hamilton Financial recommended a sale within Mrs Gs ISA, but the cash 
wasnt reinvested.
Mr and Mrs G told us they received a quarterly payment from their investments of £996 and 
that this was their most important investment objective. But in April 2021 the payment 
dropped to £909.09 and in July 2021 the payment dropped further to £542.96 without 
warning or explanation.
Mr and Mrs Gs advisor apologised that he hadnt provided recommendations for the 
uninvested cash held in Mrs Gs ISA. He said this was an oversight. He initially offered 
Mr and Mrs G £565, equivalent to 3% on the uninvested cash for nine months. He then 
offered to round up the offer to £600. Mr and Mrs G accepted the advisors apology but not 
the compensation  they wanted a proper investigation into what had happened and whether 
theyd made a financial loss.
Hamilton Financial then investigated their complaint. It said it had provided investment 
recommendations for the uninvested cash but accepted there had been a delay in providing 
those recommendations. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs G £225, being a refund of its annual 
management fee on the money that remained uninvested. Hamilton Financial didnt provide 
an explanation for the drop in Mr and Mrs Gs quarterly income payments. 
During our investigation, Hamilton Financial said the income payments reduced when Mr G 
withdrew all his money from his GIA, and when Mrs G transferred the money in her GIA to 
her ISA. It said Mr and Mrs G could have given an instruction to withdraw a higher amount at 
any time. But, during a meeting in August 2021, they confirmed that a quarterly income of 
£250 was sufficient for their needs.
Our investigator recommended Hamilton Financial should pay Mr and Mrs G £200 for the 
poor service they received, and the inconvenience caused, in addition to the £225 refund of 
fees.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said, in summary, that:
They relied on Hamilton Financials expertise when they agreed to its recommendations. 
They werent told their income source would be affected when money was transferred 
into Mrs Gs ISA.
The advisor didnt know about the drop in income until Mr and Mrs G told him and he 
couldnt provide an explanation. 
Hamilton Financial ignored their request for income and instead tried to persuade them 
to invest for the long term, which they didnt think was appropriate for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond 
to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
For ease, Ive used sub-headings to consider each of the complaint points Mr and Mrs G 
have raised.
Uninvested cash
In early March 2021, Hamilton Financial recommended some shares were sold in Mrs Gs 
ISA. Mrs G says she assumed the proceeds had been safely reinvested. But her agreement 
was an advisory one which required her consent to any transactions. She hadnt agreed to 
any reinvestment so must reasonably have realised the money remained uninvested.
Mrs G contacted Hamilton Financial when she noticed the cash was uninvested and 
recommendations were given during a meeting in August 2021. Mrs G didnt agree to the 
recommendations, so the money remained uninvested.
Hamilton Financial apologised for not providing reinvestment recommendations at an earlier 
date due to an oversight. It offered to refund its annual management fee on the uninvested 
cash. The refund represented the fee for 12 months. I cant conclude that the delay in 
reinvesting the cash caused Mrs G any financial loss as markets were particularly volatile 
during this period and, when Hamilton Financial provided recommendations, Mrs G didnt agree. So I cant conclude with any certainty that she would have agreed if these 
recommendations had been given any earlier. In the circumstances I think Hamilton 
Financials offer to refund its fees on the uninvested cash  for a full year - is fair and 
reasonable.
Hamilton Financial had originally offered a higher amount. But this wasnt accepted by Mr 
and Mrs G, and I dont find it is obliged to reinstate that offer.
Mrs G says that as a result of the delay in reinvesting, she received three quarterly 
payments which were half what they should have been. I dont find the failure to recommend 
reinvestment and the decrease in the quarterly payments were connected and I will consider 
the decrease in payments separately.
Decrease in quarterly payments 
From the outset, Mr and Mrs G wanted to receive an income from their investments and they 
set up payments of £996 a quarter. To be clear, this figure didnt represent the income 
generated from their investments. It was made up of income and capital. The payments 
came from their GIAs and their ISAs. They say their quarterly payments dropped without 
explanation and they are concerned that Hamilton Financial didnt seem to know about the 
decrease.
Mrs G received quarterly payments of £269.19 from her ISA for the entire period of her 
agreement with Hamilton Financial. She initially received quarterly payments of around £366 
from her GIA. But these payments stopped when the assets in her GIA were transferred 
(over two tax years) to her ISA. Mr G received a quarterly payment from his GIA of around 
£362. But this also stopped when he transferred the remaining funds in his GIA to his ISA. 
I can see that in July 2020 Hamilton Financial asked him if he wanted to set up a regular 
payment of £362 from his ISA and sent him a form to sign, but this wasnt returned. 
In the absence of an instruction from Mr and Mrs G to set up a monthly payment from Mr Gs 
ISA, and to increase the monthly payment from Mrs Gs ISA, the payments couldnt be 
altered.
I can see that during the August 2021 meeting, Mr and Mrs G told Hamilton Financial that 
the payments they were receiving - of £268 - was sufficient for their needs.
It would have been helpful if Hamilton Financial had provided an explanation about the 
quarterly payments in its final response to Mr and Mrs Gs. But I dont find this makes a 
difference to the overall outcome of this complaint.
2021 recommendations
During the August 2021 online meeting, Mr and Mrs G explained they were now looking for 
an increased capital return on their portfolios, that the existing quarterly payment of £268 
was sufficient, and that they were happy to invest for a reasonably long time horizon. 
Hamilton Financial provided recommendations to meet these changed needs and 
recommended that the investment should be retained for seven to ten years. Having 
considered the recommendations after the meeting, Mr and Mrs G told Hamilton Financial 
they didnt want to tie their money up for that long, and that they preferred their previous 
strategy of quarterly payments. But they say despite two emails asking for alternative 
suggestions, Hamilton Financial didnt respond.Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with Hamilton Financials recommendations. Hamilton Financial 
told us it didnt know what Mr and Mrs G wanted because theyd provided conflicting 
information. 
I find Hamilton Financial should have responded to Mr and Mrs Gs emails when they asked 
for alternative suggestions. But, as Hamilton Financial wouldnt have recommended an 
investment time horizon of less than five years, and Mr and Mrs G had indicated they didnt 
want to tie their money up for any period of time, its likely that any further recommendations 
from Hamilton Financial wouldnt have been agreed by Mr and Mrs G. As the expert in this 
relationship, Hamilton Financial should have replied to Mr and Mrs G and made sure they 
fully understood its approach. But, even if it had done that, I think its unlikely the overall 
outcome would have changed. I say that because Mr and Mrs G have been clear they no 
longer wanted to invest for the medium to long term. And, by their own admission, theyd lost 
trust in Hamilton Finance following the reduction in their quarterly payments.
I think its fair that Hamilton Finance pay Mr and Mrs G £200 for the lack of communication 
they received  in response to them asking for revised recommendations, and (as set out 
above) for the delay in providing reinvestment proposals.
Mr and Mrs G told us they were concerned that their meetings had been recorded without 
their consent. Hamilton Financial told us it does not record online meetings. It summarised 
its meetings with Mr and Mrs G in an email to them to check they agreed with what had been 
said and any proposed actions.
Irresponsible management
Mr and Mrs G say they have been left with a feeling that their finances have been 
irresponsibly managed and they are worried there are other discrepancies that havent been 
identified. This service can only investigate discrepancies if evidence of what might have 
gone wrong is provided. That said, Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that Hamilton 
Financial provided the service set out in its agreement and that its recommendations were 
suitable based on Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, investment objectives and attitude to risk.
For these reasons, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator. I think its fair 
and reasonable that Hamilton Financial pay Mr and Mrs G £200 for the poor service they 
received, in addition to the offer it made to the refund some of its management fees. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Hamilton Financial (Scotland) Ltd should:
1. Refund annual management fees of £225 in Mrs Gs ISA.
2. Pay Mr and Mrs G £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman