DRN-1685921
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005 with a 
mortgage. Mrs K says that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Where there evidence is missing or contradictory, I need to make my decision based on a 
balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides 
have said, and make a decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I explain why below.
Mrs K said she wasnt aware she was being sold PPI. And that she was not aware that the 
PPI was optional. Halifax has defended its sale against these points. From what we know 
about the way these policies were sold, its more likely that Mrs K would have had to agree 
to the cover to get it, and she would have known she had a choice about doing so. 
I note that the documentation from the time uses the language of choice. The letter dated 20 
May 2005 and the letter dated 2 June 2005 both start by saying, Thank you for choosing our 
Halifax Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). They go on to describe the cover Mrs K 
had agreed to. So, if Mrs K hadnt agreed to the PPI at the time, I think these would have put 
her on notice that she had agreed to the PPI, something she now says he hadnt agreed to. 
And I think these would have caused Mrs K to raise this with the business many years 
before she eventually chose to do.  
So, having taken everything into account, I think Halifax most likely made it clear that Mrs K 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this now, many years later. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs K, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example Mrs K was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs K told us she 
had good sick pay initially, but I note that it dropped significantly after six months, such that Mrs K may have had to rely on her savings. But whilst Mrs K had some savings, I note that 
she chose to protect them at the time, by not using them to make her mortgage smaller. 
This policy could have paid the mortgage amount for up to 12 months, in the event Mrs K 
suffered from ill health, would have paid in addition to any sick pay Mrs K may have 
received, for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay and would 
have further protected her savings. And the policy would have paid out on a successful claim 
for up to a year if Mrs K lost her job. So, having thought carefully about this, and the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think Mrs 
K could have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other policies that offered similar 
benefits at the time and it appears to have been affordable. 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs K, Halifax also had to give her clear enough 
information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave Mrs K was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable for Mrs K, Im not persuaded more or better 
information would have made a difference to her decision to take out the PPI.
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman