DRN-2962974
The complaint
Ms R complains that AWP P&C SA hasnt refunded the premiums she paid for a travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Ms R took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. The 
policy cost Ms R £114.23 and was intended to cover a trip Ms R had planned between 22 
and 31 May 2020. While she was away, Ms R had booked to take part in a sporting event.
However, on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel abroad. And on 24 March 
2020, Ms Rs event organiser let her know that the sporting event had been cancelled. 
Ms R was able to recover the costs of her trip. But as she was no longer travelling, she 
asked AWP whether she could cancel her policy and obtain a refund of the premium shed 
paid.
AWP told Ms R that as the 14-day policy cooling-off period had ended, it wasnt able to 
cancel her contract. It did tell her that it could look into moving the policy dates.
Ms R wasnt happy with AWPs response and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think AWP had treated Ms R fairly. He set out the details of the 
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He 
explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to 
bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not 
unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that 
time. And he explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance 
to be performed because cover under the policy started on 6 March 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for AWP to provide Ms R with a pro-rata refund of the premium shed paid for the policy. 
AWP didnt respond to the investigators recommendations. Ms R felt she should be entitled 
to a full refund of premium, as she didnt think shed benefited from any cover under the 
policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Ms R fairly. Ill explain why.  
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date you receive the policy document at 
the start of your insurance provided that you have not travelled, (or in the case of single trip 
policies, cover has not already commenced), and no claim under this policy has been made. 
If you decide to exercise your cancellation right, you will be entitled to a full refund of 
premium less an amount charged by (the broker) as per their own terms of business.
I acknowledge that the policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period. So there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for AWP to pay any refund of 
premium. And as Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that AWP doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Ms Rs cooling-off period ended on 20 March 2020. But Ms R didnt ask to 
cancel her policy until 24 March 2020. This means her request to cancel the policy was 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period.  As such, I dont think the terms and conditions of 
Ms Rs contract with AWP entitle her to any refund of premiums.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. In the 
circumstances of this case, I think the fair outcome here would be for AWP to offer Ms R a 
pro-rata refund for the unused portion of her policy from the date the sporting event (and 
therefore the holiday) was cancelled. 
 
I say that because between 6 March and 24 March 2020, AWP was covering the risk of Ms 
R potentially needing to make a cancellation claim on her policy, even though her trip itself 
hadnt started. As the investigator explained, its a fundamental principle of insurance that an 
insurer is entitled to keep the premium for a risk its started covering, for however short a 
time it was providing cover. This means I think its reasonable for AWP to retain any 
premiums for the time it was covering the risk of Ms R making a claim. After the holiday was 
cancelled on 24 March 2020 though, AWP was no longer carrying any risk of Ms R making a 
claim under any section of her policy. And it doesnt appear that Ms R made a cancellation 
claim for the costs of the event or her trip. 
So Ive decided, in the circumstances of this case, that its fair for AWP to provide Ms R with 
a pro-rata refund of her premium from 24 March 2020. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to provide Ms R with a pro-rata refund of the premium she paid for her 
single trip travel insurance policy from 24 March 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman