DRN-2733716
The complaint
Ms F says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1993 to protect Ms Fs mortgage 
repayments. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave Ms F 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms F so it had to check it was suitable for her. And it
had to give Ms F enough clear information so she could make an informed decision whether 
or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because Ms F had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have been
covered by the policy. So it was likely that Ms F would not have been able to claim on the
policy when she needed to, and when she expected to be able to. And I cant see Santander
considered this when it made its recommendation, or that it made this clear enough to Ms F.
Ive considered the banks arguments that it would have asked about pre-existing medical
conditions during the sale; that Ms F would have been told about the exclusion and that the
policy summary provided information on the same. But I dont think this evidences that it
clearly highlighted to Ms F that her pre-existing medical condition would be excluded from
cover. Or that it took her condition properly into account when making its recommendation.
The bank also asked for more evidence of her condition at the time of the sale. I dont think 
thats needed in the circumstances. Ms F has been consistent in her testimony and has 
given a date of diagnosis that significantly pre-dates the PPI sale. I have found no reason to 
think this is inaccurate. And as Santander will know her condition is progressive and one that 
requires lifelong monitoring and medication  and can cause a number of serious 
complications. Her recent doctors letter evidences her treatment is ongoing. I think Ms F 
wouldve thought it was a likely reason she might need to claim. So I think its most likely Ms 
F wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed been better advised and informed.
It follows I think Ms F has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
Putting things right
Santander should put Ms F in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Ms F the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the PPI policy, Santander can take off the 
value of the claim from the amount it owes. It can also deduct any commission 
already refunded.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must pay compensation to Ms F 
as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman