DRN-2581717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were misadvised about the upper limit for their savings 
account with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had several savings accounts with Nationwide. Their Loyalty Saver account 
was opened in November 2012. In January 2018, they increased the balance from £50000 
to £100000. In August 2019, they increased the balance to £150000. Mr G called Nationwide 
in August 2019 and was told the maximum amount allowed was £5million.
Mr and Mrs G complained. They said that they were told the maximum savings allowed in 
the Loyalty Saver when it was opened was £50000. Mr G visited a branch of Nationwide in 
January 2018 - and was told the maximum was £100000. When Mr G called Nationwide in 
August 2019 he was told it was £5million. If hed have known that, he wouldve put more 
money in. So, theyd lost out on interest they couldve received. 
Nationwide said it was difficult to be certain what Mr and Mrs G had been told in the branch. 
But savings accounts were provided on a non-advised basis  and so Mr and Mrs G signed 
the terms and conditions when opening the account, including the maximum balance limit 
then. They said that the Key Product Information as at May 2018 was the same as that in 
place in 2012. There had been some problems with communications about Loyalty Saver 
accounts in 2018  and it was possible that Mr and Mrs G were wrongly advised in the 
branch when they visited in 2018. So, they apologised and offered compensation of £75. 
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said it was difficult to 
reach a firm conclusion because of the passage of time that had gone by. But the Loyalty 
Saver account had been opened on a non-advised basis  meaning that it was up to Mr and 
Mrs G to agree the product information at that time - by signing the account opening forms. 
Nationwide had produced the Key Product Information in May 2018  this showed that for 
holders of Loyalty Saver accounts opened before July 2013 (as was Mr and Mrs Gs), the 
maximum balance was £5 million. And when Mr G called Nationwide in August 2019, he was 
told the limit was £5 million. He couldnt verify what had been said to Mr and Mrs G by 
branch staff in 2018  but they may have been told the wrong information. Nationwide had 
accepted that there may have been an error in the branch and had offered compensation of 
£75. He said that on the balance of probability, the correct savings limit wouldve been 
properly advised to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G asked that their complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G are firmly of the opinion that the maximum balance allowed on their Loyalty 
Saver when they opened it was £50000  and that theyd not been advised of any change in 
this until they visited a branch of Nationwide in January 2018 and were told the limit was 
£100000. Then, when he called Nationwide in August 2019, he was told it was £5 million. 
They say that had they known, they wouldve put more money into the account and got more 
interest. They say that as evidence of this  when they learnt of the new limits - they 
increased the balance in the account in January 2018 and in August 2019  by £50000 each 
time. Mr and Mrs G have produced a detailed timeline of events as they saw them.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here) I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not 
to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
The problem here in deciding on the complaint is that with the passage of time, some of the 
information doesnt exist. Mr and Mrs G dont have any correspondence from Nationwide  
and Nationwide cant produce all the detailed information that it published over the years.
When Mr and Mrs G opened the Loyalty Saver in 2012, they signed to say they accepted the 
terms and conditions at that time. But importantly, savings accounts are provided on a non-
advised basis, so that means its up to Mr and Mrs G to ensure that the account is right for 
them  and also its their responsibility to make sure it stays that way. Of course, Nationwide 
must ensure the right information is available so that customers can make their decisions.
Nationwide have shown us a Key Product Information document dated May 2018  sent to 
account holders - which says This Key Product Information applies if you opened your 
Loyalty Saver before 3 July 2013. 3. The maximum balance on the account is £5 million. 
But  this is a document dated May 2018, not one which was sent to Mr and Mrs G earlier. 
But I dont think Nationwide would have published a document that contained the wrong 
information about the account, albeit retrospectively.
Ive listened to Mr Gs call to Nationwide in August 2019  and he was clearly told then that 
the limit was £5 million.
Nationwide say that there may have been some confusion about the accounts terms in 2018 
 when savers were wrongly told the limit had been £100000. And they admit that Mr and 
Mrs G may well have been misinformed when they visited the branch in January 2018. But 
for that, theyve apologised and offer compensation of £75.
So, there are conflicting versions of events here, and some missing information. But I must 
decide on the balance of probabilities what happened here. And unfortunately for Mr and 
Mrs G, I dont think theres enough certain evidence to say that they were mis-advised that 
the limit was £50000 throughout the period between 2012 and 2019, or that the limit had 
ever been anything but £5 million. So, and I know that this will be disappointing for Mr and 
Mrs G, I wont be asking Nationwide to so anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman