DRN-4161130
The complaint
Mr M complains about the risk levels held out by Nutmeg Savings and Investment Limited,  
trading as Nutmeg, in respect of Junior ISAs and complains that it was unfair that a transfer 
to cash could not be facilitated.
What happened
Mr M opened two Junior ISAs for his children and says that Nutmegs risk ratings for Junior 
ISAs were misleading, that Nutmeg ought to have contemplated that the shift in bonds would 
impact investments at lower risk and Nutmeg ought to have adapted the portfolio weightings. 
Further, Mr M says Nutmeg failed to provide or permit an option to move funds into cash.   
Mr M says losses of around £2,000 have been sustained.
Nutmeg say Mr M selected the level of risk for each portfolio for investment over the longer 
term. It is common ground that Mr M selected lower risk profiles in or around May 2022. 
Nutmeg say that whilst lower risk meant there was likely to be less volatility, no guarantees 
were given about performance. Nutmeg acknowledge that bond and gilt performance 
became volatile for a period and say some adjustments were made to the portfolios to 
reduce exposure to these products, but it was a relevant factor that investment was made for 
the longer term. As to transferring to cash, Nutmeg explain that this feature was not offered 
with stocks and shares ISAs, but it was open to customers to transfer out. Nutmeg provided 
information to Mr M as to how to change the risk levels, if he wished to do so.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. He noted that Mr M 
had selected the risk levels and the assets selected within the portfolios were broadly in line 
with the selections made. Having a higher weighting of bonds over equities was not 
inconsistent with a lower risk weighting, especially given the longer-term investment 
strategy. Mr M was also aware that these were discretionary investment managed portfolios, 
which meant it was for Nutmeg to make the investment decisions. And whilst Mr M felt there 
were warning signs about bonds falling, it didnt follow that Nutmeg had positioned the 
portfolios incorrectly.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome and has asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information provided, it is my view that Nutmeg provided clear, fair and 
not misleading information about its risk ratings. The split of investments within each range 
was broadly in line with the type of assets I would expect to see. And a proportionately 
higher exposure to bonds than equities would be in line with a lower risk profile for 
investment over the longer term. I think its key to understand that a lower risk profile does 
not mean there is no risk. There is an inherent risk even with lower risk investments and that 
the risk materialised does not mean the risk profile was misleading. Further, having seen the 
screenshots provided by Nutmeg, I think its likely that information was provided about the 
asset allocation within each portfolio and that Mr M had access to this information online, so 
would have been aware of the broad make-up of each portfolio.
Ive also noted that Nutmeg did take some steps to realign the portfolios, but ultimately, 
these were decisions for them to make within the discretionary investment management 
service they provided. Theres nothing to show that they acted outside the mandate given. 
The allocation of assets was a matter within their commercial judgment where consideration 
was given to the markets, risk profile and likely duration of investment, which was longer 
term.
Mr M also complains that Nutmeg failed to allow him to hold the funds in cash. Nutmeg say 
this option wasnt available in a stocks and shares ISA. Whilst I understand Mr Ms 
frustration that this option was unavailable, Nutmeg were entitled to choose how they 
operated their products and Im satisfied that Mr M knew the funds were being managed 
under a discretionary investment management arrangement. Nutmeg explained to Mr M they 
did not offer a cash holding facility but Mr M could transfer to another provider in cash and 
that could be facilitated once a transfer request was received. It was also open to Mr M to 
change the risk exposure, which he went on to do. I think its also helpful to highlight that our 
service provides a dispute resolution service, we have no disciplinary or regulatory powers, 
which means we cant direct a business how to operate.
So, considering matters overall, Im not persuaded that Nutmeg did anything wrong. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman