The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to switch their mortgage over to a 
new product in March 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with HSBC, in two sub-accounts. It had been on a discounted 
rate of interest, which expired in October 2017, after which it reverted to HSBCs Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR) which was at that time 3.69%. The rate increased on 1 December 2017 
to 3.94%, in line with a change in the Bank of England base rate.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs G were given telephone advice by HSBC about switching to a 
new rate of interest. On the recommendation of HSBC, Mr and Mrs R chose a new five-year 
fixed rate of 1.89% and reduced the mortgage term in order to keep their repayments at 
about the same level as their existing mortgage repayments. 
A booking fee of £899 was paid online to secure the product and the mortgage offer was 
emailed out to Mr and Mrs G on 15 May 2018. In order to put the new interest rate in place, 
Mr and Mrs G either had to sign the mortgage offer and return a paper copy, or follow an 
online process, logging in using a password, signing the mortgage offer online and 
returning it to HSBC.
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs G contacted HSBC to say that they had just discovered that 
the mortgage rate hadnt been changed and they were still on SVR. They asked HSBC to 
reimburse them for the extra interest theyd paid.
HSBC looked into what had happened. The bank explained that the signed mortgage offer 
hadnt been returned and so the mortgage had remained on SVR. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to HSBC. The bank didnt uphold the complaint, but refunded the 
£899 booking fee and paid Mr and Mrs G £50 compensation for inconvenience caused by 
the delay in refunding the fee.
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mr and Mrs G complained to us. An investigator looked 
at the complaint but she didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied that Mr and Mrs G 
hadnt followed the process to return the mortgage offer to HSBC.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators findings. They say that they know theyd sent 
the electronic acceptance of the mortgage offer. They say they wouldnt have paid a fee of 
£899 without accepting the offer. 
DRN-1602178Mr and Mrs G also say that they only knew in early 2019 that they were still on SVR. Mr and 
Mrs G believe that HSBC should have checked to see that the mortgage offer had been 
received.
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs G switched to a new fixed rate product, at a slightly higher rate 
than the one theyd originally chosen a year earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs G; Im not upholding their complaint, for broadly the same 
reasons as those given by the investigator.
Ive seen al the screenshots from Mr and Mrs G which show the application as being 
processed. HSBC has said that this means that the documents had been sent out, but hadnt 
yet been returned.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G couldnt be expected to have known what that meant, so Ive 
looked at what else might have alerted Mr and Mrs G that their acceptance of the offer 
hadnt gone through.
On 1 September 2018 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say that, as a result of a change in 
the Bank of England base rate, the interest rate on their mortgage had been varied and had 
increased from 3.94% to 4.19%. The letter said quite clearly that this was HSBCs variable 
rate and also explained that the monthly repayment would increase.
If, as Mr and Mrs G had said, they believed theyd taken out a new product on a fixed rate of 
interest, Id have expected them to have queried at that point why their mortgage 
repayments were increasing, and why HSBC was saying they were on SVR.
I also note that on 3 September 2018 HSBC sent Mr and Mrs G their annual mortgage 
statement. This set out the interest rates applicable to the mortgage, and showed that on 
27 October 2017 the rate had gone from the discounted rate 0.74% to 3.69%, and had 
increased again on 1 December 2017 to 3.94% and on 1 September 2018 to 4.19%. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC sent information to Mr and Mrs G which ought to 
have alerted them to the fact that their mortgage was still on SVR.
I also note that on 21 January 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say that their mortgage 
offer had been withdrawn. The letter is poorly worded, saying that Mr and Mrs G didnt meet 
HSBCs application criteria. What the letter actually means is that the offer has lapsed as the 
application had expired.
It was that letter which prompted Mr and Mrs G to contact HSBC, when they were told that 
the acceptance of their mortgage offer hadnt been received.
Where the evidence is contradictory or incomplete, I have to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on the available evidence.
The product switching process is largely automated and so will only move to the next stage 
once all the previous steps have been completed. Im satisfied that if the acceptance had 
been received by HSBC, this would have triggered the next stage of the process and 
generated the acceptance letters and confirmation of the start date of the new mortgage 
product. Mr and Mrs G are adamant that they accepted the offer electronically. In all the 
circumstances, I think its more likely than not that the acceptance was not received by 
HSBC, even though Mr and Mrs G thought they had sent it. I cant say why it didnt reach 
HSBC, but its possible the connection dropped and the application didnt go through. But 
there is no doubt that the acceptance isnt recorded on HSBCs system. The evidence 
doesnt persuade me that I can hold HSBC responsible for this. 
Mr and Mrs G say that HSBC should have actively monitored and checked their application 
to make sure their acceptance was received. But as I explained above, the process, once 
documents have been sent out, is largely automated. It would be disproportionately 
expensive for HSBC to have its staff monitor customers applications in this way, given the 
many thousands of mortgage applications which are pending at any one time.
HSBC has refunded the £899 fee for the product, and paid £50 for the delay in doing so. As 
Im unable to find that HSBC is at fault for the product not going through in 2018, I dont think 
the bank is required to do anything further.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, but after taking everything into 
consideration, there is no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to require HSBC to 
refund any additional interest Mr and Mrs G have paid by being on SVR from March 2018.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman