DRN-2578123
The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy out in July 2002 
alongside a store credit account. Mrs B was sold the policy in a BHS store, at the same time 
as she applied for the account.
The complaint is that AXA France IARD (AXA), formerly trading as Financial Insurance 
Company Limited, mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs B. AXA didnt 
actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the 
seller
What happened
Mrs B says she didnt understand what PPI was when she took it out. 
On 6 January 2021 I issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt agree that the 
PPI had been mis-sold. In particular, I said that I didnt agree with our adjudicator that 
because AXA no longer had a copy of the actual PPI sale agreement, there was sufficient 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. And in all other respects I didnt think that Mrs B had 
lost out by buying the PPI, taking into account that she was eligible for the cover and that 
better information about it would have been unlikely to have caused her to change her mind 
about taking out the cover. 
I set out an extract below:
Unfortunately, AXA has been unable to trace a copy of the actual agreement that Mrs B
would have signed at the time she applied for the card and took out the PPI. However, Ive 
kept in mind that the sale happened quite some time ago. So Ive looked at this aspect of 
the sale based on what I know about the way these sales happened and the sale 
paperwork that would be used.
The card application form which Mrs B would have completed and signed in the store had 
an option to select PPI. From what we know about these sales at this time, its likely it 
would have been necessary for Mrs B to sign separately to show she wanted the PPI.
Ive also kept in mind that this sale took place a long time ago and memories of such 
discussions do tend to fade over time. And Mrs B has acknowledged herself that she now 
has very little recall of how the sale took place and whether she received advice about 
taking out the PPI at the time.
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs B actively decided she wanted the PPI 
knowing she could choose not to take it out if she hadnt wanted it. I also think that Mrs B 
would have seen the PPI on her monthly account statements and so could have queried 
why it was there as well as how it worked if shed wanted to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has responded to my provisional decision with any further 
information or evidence, I wont be changing my provisional findings. And as Ive already 
set out my full reasons for not upholding Mrs Bs complaint, I therefore have nothing 
further to add.
 
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint and so AXA France IARD doesnt 
need to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman