DRN-4074390
The complaint
Mr A complains Prepaid Financial Serviced Limited (PFSL) blocked his account and has 
withheld funds of around £7,000 in it. 
What happened
In December 2021, PFSL blocked Mr As account and withheld the funds. Mr A says hes 
made several attempts to speak to PFSL about this, but he has had no answers. 
Mr A says he was helping his cousins friend in the UK to exchange currencies. And as part 
of this he was sent money from someone he didnt know  but was told it was the friend in 
the UKs wife. As the account was blocked shortly after Mr A received these funds, he thinks 
this has something to do with the block. 
Mr A says he has been severely ill requiring hospitalisation and frequent visits to the hospital 
since. Because of this, he hasnt taken up this matter more proactively until referring his 
complaint to this service in June 2022. 
PFSL later closed Mr As account but retained the funds in it. 
Following this services involvement, PFSL asked Mr A if he was happy the funds in his 
account were returned to the remitters  that is, to source. Mr A wasnt happy to do this. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Mr As complaint. In summary, they found: 
- PFSL blocked Mr As account in line with its regulatory obligations and terms of the 
account 
- Though there isnt a set time frame for an investigation to be completed, it should be 
done in a pro-active and timely fashion. But PFSL havent done so here
- Despite Mr A volunteering information about the source of his funds, PFSL did 
nothing to investigate his entitlement to the funds  
- So PFSL should return the funds to Mr A, and pay him 8% simple interest from 
29 January 2022 until payment is made 
Mr A agreed with what our Investigator said. But as PFSL has not responded, this complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like PFSL, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they 
need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at PFSLs reasons, and the information to support this, Im satisfied it acted in 
line with its obligations when restricting Mr A from accessing his account. PFSL is under no 
obligation to explain why. 
Under the circumstances Ive seen that led to this restriction, Id expect PFSL to investigate 
the matter by making relevant enquires and obtaining information regarding Mr As 
entitlement to the funds in his account. PFSL has not shown it did this. 
So, based on what Ive seen, which includes the limited information PFSL have sent me, Im 
persuaded it has failed to exercise due diligence, and thereby caused substantive delay. 
Because of this, Im satisfied it needs to release Mr As funds. 
Mr A has been deprived of his funds, and it is in line with this services approach to award 
8% simple interest to compensate for this. Its not straightforward to determine from when 
PFSL should do this, given its not possible to say exactly when an investigation it should 
have done would take.  
But because I have little to go on, I think January 2022 till settlement would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Thats a little under a month from when 
the blocks were applied, but longer still from when PFSLs review started.  
Mr A is not complaining about his account being closed. And as it appears he wasnt getting 
any salary or benefits paid into it, I dont think I need to consider this point here. I also note 
Mr A hasnt said this matter has caused him any distress or inconvenience. More so he 
complains of being deprived of his funds. So I dont make any such award. 
Putting things right
To put things right, PFSL should release Mr As funds to him and pay 8% simple interest on 
them from 29 January 2022 until settlement*
*If PFSL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
must now put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman