DRN-4470864
The complaint
Ms N complains about delays by British Gas insurance Limited (British Gas) in handling her 
claim on her home emergency insurance policy and the impact this has had on her.
Ms N is represented by Mr N.
What happened
My understanding is that on the afternoon of 21 February 2023, Ms Ns live-in carer noticed
the temperature in Ms Ns home dropped dramatically. I also understand Mr N reported the
fault to British Gas the following day and explained Ms N was a vulnerable customer.
According to British Gas job history, what happened next is as follows:
22 February: an engineer cleared air from the boilers pump. The engineers notes
say: All ok. Ms Ns carer says the heat dropped again a few hours after the
engineer left and Ms N was without heating or hot water overnight.
23 February: an engineer replaced the boilers pump. His notes refer to there being
the worst airlock in his life. Ms Ns carer says the boiler failed again later that day
and Ms N was again without heating or hot water overnight.
24 February: an engineer cleared another airlock. The engineers notes say: All ok.
27 February: an engineer orders parts for the boiler, which had stopped working
again.
28 February: an engineer replaced the heat exchanger and his notes say he
watched for a good hour. They also say: Fingers crossed.
1 March: an engineer notes the system is airlocked again, that he cleared the airlock
and left the system operating correctly. 
11 March: an engineer set the pump to speed 2 and opened the auto air vent as
suspects drawing air. His notes say: Now circulating.
On 2 March, Ms Ns carer says Ms N fell from her bed and, later that day, was taken by
ambulance to hospital. Her hospital discharge notes say she presented with hip pain and
decreased mobility. Ms N was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection and discharged from
hospital late in the evening on the same day.
Mr N says Ms Ns personal circumstances, including health conditions she has, mean she
doesnt tolerate the cold, and having access to heating and hot water is essential for the
maintenance of her health. Mr N says the drop in temperature in Ms Ns home and the lack
of hot water caused a serious deterioration in Ms Ns health that resulted in her emergency
admission to hospital. He holds British Gas responsible for this.
Mr N says in the light of Ms Ns age and vulnerability (of which British Gas was aware), the
duty of care it offered was woefully inadequate. In particular, he says of the service British
Gas gave Ms N there was no joined up thinking to the extent that one engineer after
another was ignorant of what previous ones had done.
When Mr N complained to British Gas, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had visited
Ms Ns home each time within a reasonable time, although it acknowledged it was
regrettable the fault was so severe it couldnt be resolved in one visit. British Gas also said
it was very sorry to hear of Mr Ns concerns about Ms Ns hospital admission. It gave Mr N
details of its insurers, so he could raise this issue with them if he wished.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr N brought the complaint to us. He says British Gas should
give Ms N a substantial settlement, including reimbursement of her costs in employing an
additional live-in carer, which he says she needed when she was first discharged from
hospital,
The investigator who looked at Ms Ns complaint asked British Gas to consider offering
some financial compensation to Ms N. British Gas offered to pay £350, which our
investigator thought was fair and reasonable.
Mr N didnt think this compensation was adequate. He reiterated the temperature in Ms Ns
home fell too low  and this meant she was virtually bed-bound and feared getting out of bed
due to the cold and lack of washing facilities.
In my provisional decision of 20 November 2023, I explained why, like the investigator who 
looked at it, I intended to uphold Ms Ns complaint but also intended to award more 
compensation than our investigator recommended.
Both Mr N and British Gas have given me comments on my provisional decision, which has 
now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold Ms Ns complaint. I explained my decision to award Ms N £950 in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience British Gas handling of her claim has caused her as follows:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, sets out rules and
guidance for insurers in its Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook. One of these
rules is that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive taken this into account in
deciding whether British Gas has treated Ms N fairly and reasonably.
Ms Ns policy says British Gas will carry out any repairs or visits shes entitled to within a
reasonable time, unless something beyond its control makes that impossible.
British Gas says when a repair its completed doesnt fix a fault, on occasions and depending
on whats causing the boiler to fail, there can be a need for several visits. It says its
technical team advises the ongoing problem with Ms Ns boiler was an airlock and there are
many causes of air locks in a system. British Gas says, in Ms Ns case, it seems the pump
was the issue, and this was replaced, however as the air lock was already present and
severe, unfortunately it did take several visits to clear. British Gas also says it gave Ms N
fan heaters as a gesture of goodwill and these were used in her bedroom. I dont know when
Ms N was given the fan heaters, how many she was given, or what impact they had on the
temperature in her home. If either Mr N or British Gas has any information on any of these
points, it would be helpful if they could let me know before I make my final decision on this
complaint.
Looking at the evidence I have so far, I think Ms N would reasonably have expected it totake fewer than seven visits from British Gas for it to fix the problems that arose. British Gas
says it seems the issue was with the pump, which it says was replaced on 23 February. But
from British Gas job history, it looks as if the primary heat exchanger was also replaced (on
28 February)  suggesting the pump wasnt the only issue here. Theres also a reference to
another pump being ordered around 27 February, so Im not clear if that means a second
pump was then fitted and, if so, why.
British Gas says there can be many causes of airlocks and its told us what the most
common ones are. It says Ms Ns system was large and heavily airlocked. It says this is
common on larger systems and could point to an underlying issue, taking a few attempts to
clear.
Given this knowledge  and bearing in mind Ms N was a vulnerable customer for whom
having access to heating and hot water was essential  I wouldve expected British Gas to
look for all of the more common underlying causes for the loss of heating and hot water
sooner than it did. From the evidence Ive seen, its engineers seem to have applied different
fixes on different visits (though often removing airlocks). But, even on 11 March, it seems
there was still a problem with the pump. Because of the resultant delays in getting Ms Ns
heating and hot water working properly again, and based on what Ive seen so far, I think
British Gas failed to carry out the repairs within a reasonable time.
One of Mr Ns specific complaint points about the service British Gas gave Ms N was that
there was no continuity of care and no joining of dots. As an example, he says one of the
last engineers to visit was unaware of the history of Ms Ns claim and so was:
ignorant of what the previous engineer had spent hours the previous day doing, ignorant of
the fact that there had been no heating for 6 days and ignorant of the fact that there was a
very sick vulnerable  old lady upstairs.
Ive seen no evidence from British Gas that the successive engineers who visited Ms Ns
home were aware of the detailed history of her claim. I think thats both unfortunate and
unfair. If there had been more of what Mr N describes as continuity of care, I think it
wouldve given Ms N, her carer and her family reassurance that she was getting the level of
service she was entitled to, especially given her vulnerabilities.
Having decided there were delays by British Gas in repairing Ms Ns boiler and failings in
ensuring its engineers had a good understanding of the job history, I now need to look at the
impact this has had on her.
As Ive said, Ms N was admitted to hospital on 2 March and was diagnosed with a urinary
tract infection. She was given pain relief and medication for the infection, before being
discharged on the same day.
Mr N is firmly of the view Ms Ns hospitalisation was a direct result of British Gas failing to fix
her boiler and restore heat and hot water to her home within a reasonable time. His view is
shared by another family member, who is a medical doctor, and who was with Ms N for part
of the time she was in hospital. She says both she and the on-duty doctor in the A&E
Department were certain it was the extremely low temperatures in the house due to British
Gas inability and delays to fix the boiler that led to Ms Ns immobility, her reluctance to get
out of bed, her infection and her emergency hospital admission.
Weve asked Mr N if he has independent medical evidence to show there was a direct link
between Ms Ns hospital admission and the lack of heating and hot water in her home. He
says he hasnt and the family member Ive already referred to also says no medic would
venture to say there was direct causality between the lack of heating and the urinary tractinfection.
I understand Mr N would like me to find that British Gas failings caused Ms Ns
hospitalisation. But, as Ive previously said, British Gas has given Mr N details of its insurers
for him to pursue a personal injury claim on Ms Ns behalf, if he wishes. I think thats a fair
and reasonable approach to this situation. It shows British Gas is dealing with the allegation
seriously and the matter will be considered. It is, of course, for Mr N to decide if he wishes to
pursue a claim on Ms Ns behalf.
Whilst I dont intend to make a finding about whether British Gas caused Ms N personal
injury, based on what Ive seen so far, I think its delays in fixing her boiler caused her
substantial distress and inconvenience. For this, I intend to award her £950. In making this
award, I must take into account that Ms Ns distress and inconvenience was relatively short-
lived  days, rather than weeks or months. But I think it was also acute. Ms N was left
without heating and hot water for longer than she shouldve been  Mr N says for six days.
Detailed comments from Ms Ns carer describe Ms N as being very worried about the lack of
heating and hot water. They also describe Ms N starting to withdraw and curl up to conserve
heat, as well as becoming increasingly uncomfortable physically (because of her health
issues), the longer she was without access to central heating and hot water. Given these
impacts and Ms Ns known vulnerabilities, I think my intended award of £950 for the distress
and inconvenience British Gas has caused her is fair and reasonable.
As Ive mentioned, both Mr N and British Gas have commented on my decision.
Mr N says my recommendation of compensation is much closer to what he had in mind. But 
he also asks (among other things) what more can be done to make British Gas more 
responsible and suggests there should be a requirement for British Gas to write to him/Ms N 
explaining how its protocols were deficient and what it intends to do about this in the future. 
Mr N has also asked if my decision takes into account Ms Ns age and her medical 
conditions/vulnerabilities.
Ive taken into account all the available evidence in deciding Ms Ns complaint, including the 
personal circumstances Mr N describes. Our role is to decide individual complaints based on 
the circumstances and available evidence  we arent a regulator and so dont have the 
power to demand the other actions from British Gas that Mr N would like to see.
British Gas doesnt agree there was no continuity of care. It says the three engineers that 
attended Ms Ns home over the seven visits were made aware there was a vulnerable 
customer in the property. It says its system also made them aware the job was booked as a 
recall, which meant it was relating to the last job. British Gas says its engineers didnt leave 
a job without doing all they could on the day/evening they attended and, on some occasions, 
the engineer was on site for several hours. British Gas also maintains its position that Ms Ns 
central heating system was heavily air-locked and that this is common and time-consuming 
on larger systems, meaning it can take a few attempts to clear.
Im not a heating engineer and must decide Ms Ns complaint based on the evidence Im 
given. British Gas hasnt given any detailed evidence about the specific fault(s) in Ms Ns 
central heating system that it had to fix. Instead, its relied on general statements about her 
system being larger and heavily air-locked. I dont find these arguments persuasive in 
explaining why it took seven visits to get Ms Ns heating fully functioning again.
The evidence I have on the issue of continuity of care is conflicting. While British Gas says 
its engineers were aware of the job history, Mr N says at least one of the engineers whom 
British Gas has named as visiting Ms Ns home didnt know its history. Mr N says this 
engineer (the second to visit) said the previous engineer had not written down any notes detailing what the problem was. I find Mr Ns testimony on this issue quite detailed and 
persuasive. And while the job may have been booked as a recall, British Gas hasnt shown 
this meant its engineers knew the detailed history of Ms Ns claim. So, while Ive considered 
British Gas comments on my provisional decision, they dont change my conclusions on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision of 20 November 2023 (which 
now form part of this final decision), I uphold Ms Ns complaint and direct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay her £950 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused her.
British Gas insurance Limited must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell 
it Ms N has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, British Gas Insurance Limited must pay 
simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on this amount from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman