DRN-2290089
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle his 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, taken out alongside a 
store card account.
What happened
Mr P opened took out a store card account in February 1992 and at the same time a PPI 
policy was taken out.  When Mr P complained that the PPI was mis-sold, AXA agreed to 
uphold his complaint and offered him some compensation to settle the complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the compensation amount offered and brought his complaint to this 
service. He said the amount offered was very small and didnt include any penalty for the 
mis-sale and so would not act as a detriment to the business in the future. 
Our adjudicator said what AXA had offered was fair. Mr P remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the business has upheld Mr Ps complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision I am 
not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold. I am only considering if what AXA has 
offered as compensation for the mis-sold PPI, is fair. 
When a business has mis-sold PPI we expect it to pay compensation to put the consumer, 
as far as possible, in the position they would have been in if they had never taken out the 
PPI. This means refunding all the premiums charged and any interest caused by the 
additional cost of the premiums being added to the account balance. The business is also 
required to pay compensatory interest for any time the consumer is out of pocket.
In this case, it is known the PPI was taken out alongside the card in February 1992, but AXA 
doesnt have full records or data about the account for the full period the card account was 
active. Its full records start in August 2005 and it is known the account was closed by that 
date. 
However, AXA does have some basic computer records about the account, and these are a 
record of the lifetime payments for the account. These show that the total ever spent on the 
account whilst it was open was £158.94, the total interest charged on the account was £2.82 
and £1.92 of the spend was for the PPI premiums. 
AXA has therefore offered to refund the £1.92 of premiums plus £0.34 for the interest the 
premiums would have caused whilst part of the balance, giving a total of £2.26 for the costs 
of the PPI. In addition, AXA has worked out some compensatory interest of £4.89, before 
tax, making its total offer £4.89 gross (£4.36 after tax). Compensatory interest is worked out 
at a standard rate of 8% simple for every year.
Looking at what AXA has done and offered, this is in line with the requirements for PPI 
compensation and I think its offer is fair. 
I have considered Mr Ps comments about the fact he received more from another business 
for a similar PPI policy mis-sale which seemed a fairer amount. But each case has to be 
considered on its own facts and in this complaint, the total premiums ever paid for the PPI 
are actually known, which may not have been the case in another claim he made.
Mr P also feels that paying such a small amount of compensation doesnt act as a deterrent 
to stop AXA acting badly in the future. This service is not the financial regulator, that is the 
Financial Conduct Authority, and our role is not to penalise businesses. Our role is to settle 
disputes in a fair way to both parties. So I cannot award penalty amounts as Mr P would like.
As I have set out above, we expect businesses to pay PPI compensation which is made up 
of a refund of all PPI costs and also compensatory interest. And Mr P has been offered 
compensatory interest as part of the compensation amount. So he is being paid more than 
just the costs of the PPI.
In this case, looking at what AXA has worked out as the total costs of the PPI and 
compensatory interest on that amount to the date of its offer, I think the offer is fair. 
Therefore, I am not upholding this complaint that any additional compensation should be 
paid for the mis-sale. 
If the compensation payment has not yet been made to Mr P, then AXA will need to update 
the compensatory interest to the date of actual payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding this complaint. If AXA France IARD 
has not yet paid the compensation to Mr P then it will need to update the compensatory 
interest, but otherwise no additional compensation is due.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman