DRN-4180012
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was given inappropriate advice about the transfer of some pension 
savings by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life 
Financial of Canada (Sun Life).
What happened
The advice that Mr E received was provided by Cannon Lincoln. That firm now forms part of 
Sun Life, so it is Sun Life that needs to deal with Mr Es complaint. In this decision, for ease, 
I will simply refer to the business that Mr E dealt with as Sun Life.
Mr E has been assisted in making his complaint by a firm of solicitors. But in this decision, 
again for ease, I will generally refer to all communications as having been with, and from, 
Mr E himself.
Mr E held deferred defined benefits (DB) in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 
1991 he received some advice from Sun Life about the potential transfer of those pension 
benefits to a personal pension plan. Mr E accepted Sun Lifes recommendation, and his 
pension benefits were transferred later that year.
In 2022 Mr E complained to Sun Life about the advice hed been given. Sun Life says that it 
asked Mr E to complete a questionnaire so that it would have more information about his 
circumstances at the time the advice was given. It says that it didnt receive any further 
information from Mr E. But Mr E says that the requested information was returned to 
Sun Life in July 2022. When he didnt receive any further response he asked us to consider 
his complaint.
Mr Es complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that the 
advice Sun Life had given to Mr E in 1991 had been suitable. He said there was no evidence 
that Sun Life had provided Mr E with the information he needed to make the transfer 
decision. And he thought that, on the limited evidence available, it was unlikely that Mr E 
would have found the transfer attractive, had better information been provided. So he 
thought that Mr Es complaint should be upheld, and he asked Sun Life to look into whether 
Mr E had lost out.
Sun Life didnt accept that assessment. It said that it was unreasonable to expect it to make 
any comments on the assessment without the information it had asked Mr E to provide about 
his circumstances. And it said that it was possible that the advice it had given to Mr E might 
already have been checked as part of the industry wide pensions review exercise that took 
place towards the end of the 1990s. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr E accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by Sun Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Sun Life was aware that we were considering Mr Es complaint for more than six months 
before our investigator issued his assessment. So I cannot conclude that it has had anything 
other than a reasonable period of time to provide us with any submissions that it wished to 
make, or to request more details about Mr Es circumstances upon which the investigators 
assessment was based.
I note that, in its initial response to us, Sun Life said that Mr Es transfer hadnt been 
considered as part of the industry wide pensions review exercise. I accept that, more 
recently, it has said that the transfer might have been considered by that review. But it has 
provided us with no evidence showing that was the case. And as Sun Life will be aware, it 
was a regulatory requirement from the time for that evidence to be retained indefinitely. So 
given the lack of evidence that the transfer was considered as part of the review, I think it 
reasonable for me to conclude that the transfer wasnt included within that exercise.
The regulatory guidance that was in place in 1991 in relation to the transfer of defined 
pension benefits from an OPS was less prescriptive than we might see today. However, in 
July 1992 the regulator at the time, LAUTRO, set out the details of what it would expect to be 
discussed before a transfer was recommended. I accept that guidance was issued after 
Mr Es transfer took place. But as part of the guidance the regulator said that its guidance 
should also be applied to any investigations of past complaints. So I think the guidance is a 
reasonable basis upon which I should consider whether Sun Life met its obligations to Mr E.
The relevant guidance set out in detail the features of the DB scheme which needed to be 
discussed before recommending a transfer. It mentioned that the other options of doing 
nothing, transferring to a new employers scheme or a section-32 plan should be given equal 
consideration. A full analysis of the benefits available was expected to demonstrate why 
these options had been ruled out.
The information that Sun Life has provided to us from the time is limited. It shows no 
information about the value, or future structure, of the defined benefits that Mr E was giving 
up. And so it shows no comparison, as would be expected by the regulator, of why a transfer 
might be in his best interests.At the time the advice was given, Mr E was aged 26, and was transferring around six years 
worth of pension benefits. The benefits being transferred are likely to have made up most, if 
not all, of Mr Es retirement savings at that time. He was working in a relatively low paid job, 
and had little in the way of other assets. He was renting his home, and said that he had little 
experience of other investments. He described his attitude to risk as being very low.
The advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests are directly relevant here. But, as I said 
earlier, Sun Life hasnt provided any documentation showing what might be the critical yield 
required from the transferred monies to match the benefits being given up in the OPS.
The relevant discount rate that the regulator gave for a Financial Viability Test was 12.1% 
per year for a consumer with 33 years to retirement as was the case for Mr Es OPS 
benefits. And in fact, Sun Life suggested he might like to retire at age 50, so meaning that 
the relevant rate would potentially be far higher. For comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle projection rate 10.75%, and the lower 
projection rate 8%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr E's 
probable attitude to risk as set out above, and also the term to retirement. I think Mr E was 
likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
I havent seen any other persuasive reasons why it might have been appropriate for Mr E to 
transfer his pension benefits from the OPS into a personal pension plan. As I mentioned 
above, Sun Lifes recommendation suggested that Mr E might want to retire earlier than that 
allowed by the OPS. But there was still a significant amount of time before even the earlier 
retirement date was reached. It might have been more appropriate, particularly given what 
Ive said about Mr Es attitude to risk, and the potential investment returns, to leave his 
pension benefits within the safety of the OPS and to reconsider any retirement plans nearer 
to the proposed date.
Sun Life was required to show compelling reasons why Mr E should not be advised to leave 
his pension benefits in the OPS, and benefit from the guarantees that the scheme provided. 
It hasnt shown us those reasons in its response to this complaint, nor has it given any 
indication that information was provided to Mr E at the time the advice was given. As 
I explained above it seems unlikely that Mr E would have been materially better off as a 
result of the transfer.
So I dont think Sun Life should have advised Mr E to transfer his pension benefits from the 
OPS to a personal pension plan. It now needs to establish whether that advice means that 
Mr E has lost out, and if so to pay him the appropriate compensation.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Sun Life to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have likely 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
Sun Life should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in Policy Statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4. 
For clarity, Mr E took his pension benefits as a lump sum in 2019. So, compensation should 
be based on Mr E taking these benefits at this time.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, the 
calculation should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification of Mr Es acceptance.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in PS22/13 and set out in 
DISP App 4, Sun Life should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
oredress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment a 
current defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be used to augment 
a pension rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts Sun Lifes offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid directly to Mr E as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of 
benefits that would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, 
Sun Life may make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement is presumed to be 20%. However, if 
Mr E would have been able to take 25% tax-free cash from the benefits the cash payment 
represents, then this notional reduction may only be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall notional deduction of 15%.
At this stage I cannot be sure how much, or whether, compensation will be due to Mr E. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. Determination and money award: I require Sun Life to pay Mr E the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sun Life pays Mr E the balance. 
If Mr E accepts this final decision, the money award is binding on Sun Life. My 
recommendation is not binding on Sun Life. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman