DRN-3282063
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of service and cash settlement amount offered by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc, following an escape of water claim against his landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D owns a property which he rented out, and it was insured with AXA. Mr D claimed for 
water damage to the property in August 2020, after his tenant moved out. Mr D says the 
damage prevented a prospective tenant from moving in. 
AXA accepted the claim and cash settled it. They say an escape of water caused damage to 
two kitchen unit carcasses and the flooring. Mr D  a builder who built the property  felt the 
cash settlement was far too low and repairs could not be achieved without removing and 
refitting a new kitchen, and removing wall tiles, amongst other things. He provided his own 
quotes and raised concerns about a potential loss of match. 
AXA later increased the cash settlement to £4,024.94 after further dialogue with Mr D. 
Although Mr D felt the amount was still too low, he says he accepted this as he felt trapped 
by AXA. He also says AXA offered to cover his loss of rent but later declined this. And hed 
been paying the council tax and thinks AXA should cover these costs due to the delays they 
caused. 
Mr D wasnt happy and complained. AXA responded maintaining their position on the claim 
outcome and loss of rent, but paid Mr D £100 for the way things were handled. Mr D 
remained unhappy and approached our service. 
An investigator here looked into it and found AXA had been reasonable when settling Mr Ds 
claim. He also considered the way things were handled and felt £100 compensation was fair.
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Escape of water damage 
This policy is designed to put Mr D back in the position he was in prior to an insured event. 
The policy is clear in that AXAs liability for a claim is reinstating the damaged areas, and not 
intended on covering undamaged areas. 
The surveyors report suggests a portion of the kitchen was damaged by the escape of 
water. And large parts remained undamaged given the leak occurred at ground level and 
impacted two unit carcasses and the flooring. Firstly, I dont think there would have been a 
loss of match here given the ratio of the damaged to undamaged areas. It appears the two 
carcasses were of a standard white colour, and the unit doors once refitted would have likely 
hidden these in any event. I also understand AXA agreed to cover the floor replacement so 
there was no loss of match concern there. 
So, I dont think AXA should meet Mr Ds quotes for a kitchen replacement or contribute 
towards this any more than they have done. The quotes Mr D provided suggest a large 
portion of the works are to replace areas undamaged by the claim  which AXA is not 
responsible for. And the section of the policy setting out how AXA settle claims makes clear 
that they will pay for individual damaged items only, not undamaged items. 
Mr D also says other items were damaged, such as the unit doors, and plinths, amongst 
other things. Mr D says he removed these to assist with drying. AXA on the other hand say 
the items, including the doors, could have been reused and fitted back on to the carcasses 
once the work had been done. There is a lack of supporting evidence to show these items 
were damaged by the claim as they were removed prior to the surveyors visit, so I am 
unable to say AXA acted unfairly when saying these items could be reused. 
There was further dialogue between the parties after the initial cash settlement was offered, 
which was later increased. Mr Ds views on how a lasting and effective repair should be 
achieved evidently differed to those held by AXA. But I dont think its been demonstrated 
AXAs views were incorrect on how the damaged claim-related items could be replaced 
without the need to remove and refit a new kitchen. Ive seen the photos show the carcasses 
on plastic legs which suggests AXAs views on how the work could be done was plausible, 
whilst limiting their liability. 
Overall, Im satisfied AXA fairly assessed the claim and relied on their surveyors report and 
scope of works to do so. They werent liable for the replacement kitchen costs, or costs to 
reinstate any items undamaged by the escape of water. I note Mr D argues AXA offered him 
an unfair initial offer, but Im satisfied they reached the initial amount reasonably given the 
above.
Council tax and loss of rent 
Our investigator rightly pointed out the policy doesnt say it covers council tax costs when the 
property is empty. So, I wont be directing AXA to do anything in this respect. 
I also dont think the policy should respond to Mr Ds loss of rent claim. Ill explain why. 
The policy says loss of rent is covered if the property cannot be lived in. Generally, to say a 
property cannot be lived in, Id expect the occupier to have no access to washing and 
cooking facilities. That wasnt the case here, and in fact, there was no tenant in situ when the 
claim was reported. 
I acknowledge Mr D says a prospective tenant could not move in due to the damage. There 
was no tenancy agreement in place, but the tenant did write to say they accepted the 
property in August 2020. I do appreciate had they moved in then, they would have 
experienced some inconvenience whilst the claim repairs were undertaken  that AXA were 
liable for. But I couldnt fairly say the property could not be lived in when the prospective 
tenant accepted the property, so I dont think the policy should respond in this respect.
Mr D also says he was told loss of rent would be covered, but AXA later declined this. I 
accept this would have been frustrating given Mr D says he went away to gather documents 
to substantiate this part of his claim, based on wrong information. This appears to have been 
an error on AXAs behalf as they would have known Mr D didnt have a tenant in situ at the 
time the claim was reported, and the property was liveable. Ill return to this aspect later. Summary 
I accept this has been a frustrating time for Mr D. The crux of the matter is the dispute 
regarding how to achieve a lasting and effective repair, AXAs liability, and the cash 
settlement amount. Ultimately, Im satisfied AXA treated Mr D fairly when assessing the 
claim and were only liable for covering the claim-related damage, not the undamaged areas. 
I do think things could have been handled better. Returning to my point above, Mr D says he 
was given wrong information in respect of his loss of rent claim, and AXA failed to manage 
his expectations. Having considered all the information available to me in respect of the way 
things were handled, I find £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused to 
be fair, reasonable, and proportionate, to the impact this had on Mr D. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with AXA  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman