DRN-1800702
The complaint
Mr D complains he was mis-sold a Payment Break Plan (PBP) by Barclays Bank UK Plc.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card in 2003. The card was branded under the name of Company M, 
issued by Barclays, and initially managed by Barclays. Later, Company C became 
responsible for running the account. Although Ill refer to Company M and Company C 
throughout, this decision is just about Barclays.
Alongside this type of credit card, consumers were sometimes sold a PBP.
In 2016 Company M replied to a complaint management companys request for information 
about Mr Ds credit card account, by saying:
If your request for information is in relation to a potential claim for the refund of 
"Payment Protection Insurance" premiums, please note that [Company M] does not 
and has not to date sold Payment Protection Insurance.
We did offer optional Payment Break Plan and any offer of refund would be made 
only as a gesture of goodwill without any admission of liability.
The complaint management company didnt reply to Company Ms letter, but Company M 
did update the file for Mr Ds credit card account to show that a query about PBP had been 
answered.
In 2019 Mr D complained to Barclays about having PPI on his Company M credit card. 
Barclays replied in April, and again in June 2019, saying:
I have looked at your account and can confirm that you do not have PPI as it was 
not available on [Company M] cards. However, [Company M] did offer an optional 
feature called Payment Break Plan (PBP).
Your complaint has already been resolved by [Company C]
[Company C] are responsible for the running of your credit card account.
As your enrolment in Payment Break Plan (PBP) took place while your [Company M] 
card was managed by Barclays  we have taken on responsibility for investigating 
any unresolved complaints about PBP.
We have reviewed our records and have found that your complaint has already been 
resolved by [Company C]. Please refer to your final response letter sent to you by 
[Company C] for further information.
In August 2019 Mr D referred his complaint to us, because he had trouble getting in contact 
with Company C. We wrote to Company C on his behalf and on 12 November 2019 
Company M replied to Mr Ds mis-sold PBP complaint saying:
We have reviewed your account and you have never subscribed to Payment Break 
Plan. Therefore you have never been charged premiums for this product and there 
are no charges to be refunded.
Our investigators view
When one of our investigators issued the first view on Mr Ds concerns, the complaint was 
against Company C. She didnt uphold the complaint because she couldnt see any evidence 
that Mr D had ever been charged for a PBP. Mr D disagreed and asked us to look again, 
focussing on Barclays. On the basis of Barclays letters of April and July 2019 he still 
believed hed paid for a PBP. He said; Barclays have clearly admitted that they enrolled me 
on the plan.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ds complaint against Barclays but again concluded there was 
no evidence hed been sold a PBP with his Company M card. Mr D continued to disagree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I realise Mr D will be disappointed, I have come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator.
The evidence provided by both Barclays and Company C indicates that Mr D wasnt sold a 
PBP with his Company M credit card. Weve been given a complete list of the transactions 
on Mr Ds credit card account and they do not include any PBP fees. And both Barclays and 
Company C have provided screenshots that show no PBP enrolment date for his credit card 
account  but the Barclays screenshot does show that a PBP query had been dealt with by 
Company C. In addition, Mr D has provided copies of his credit card statements and they 
dont include any PBP fees.
I appreciate that Barclays letters in April and July 2019 included a line that could be 
misinterpreted as providing confirmation that Mr D had been enrolled in a PBP. They 
included the line, As your enrolment in Payment Break Plan (PBP) took place while your 
[Company M] card was managed by Barclays . But the paragraph of which that line is the 
start reads as a standard explanation, for any consumer raising concerns about a PBP, 
about why Barclays had responsibility for investigating these unresolved complaints. I dont 
agree the line was an admission from Barclays that theyd enrolled Mr D on a PBP. In any 
event theres no evidence that he was charged for a PBP.
As Im satisfied Mr D wasnt sold a PBP for his Company M credit card account and didnt 
pay any fees towards one, I cant uphold his complaint that he was mis-sold a PBP by 
Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman