DRN-2098986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC) unfairly when they moved house. Theyd like all or some of it refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a mortgage with Barclays. Theyd taken out a fixed interest rate product 
in 2017. This included an ERC which applied to the end of January 2020. They contacted 
Barclays in late 2019 as they intended to move house. Mr W says they were assured by 
Barclays they wouldnt have to pay an ERC. 
Mr and Mrs W agreed to move the completion date forwards to December 2019 to 
accommodate their vendor. When they received the redemption statement this included an 
ERC of about £3,800. They say it was too late by then to make other arrangements to avoid 
having to pay the ERC. 
Our investigator said Barclays had made Mr and Mrs W aware the ERC would be payable if 
they repaid their mortgage before the end of the product. Barclays had sent the redemption 
statement to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors promptly. Our investigator said Barclays hadnt made 
an error and it wasnt fair to require it to refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The calls between Mr and Mrs W and Barclays mortgage adviser werent recorded, and the 
parties dispute what was said. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W took out a fixed rate product in late 2017. This included an ERC which was 
payable if the mortgage was repaid before 31 January 2020. Mr and Mrs W agreed to this 
when they took out the product.
Mr and Mrs W repaid their mortgage on 17 December 2019. Under the terms of the product 
they agreed to Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC.
There could be circumstances in which Id find it fair to require Barclays to refund the ERC. 
Thats not the case here and Ive explained why below.
The amount of the ERC and the period in which it applied, were clearly set out in the 
product offer. 
Mr and Mrs W spoke to Barclays mortgage adviser in October 2019. Barclays notes say 
Mr and Mrs W were aware the ERC would apply if they repaid the mortgage before the 
end of the ERC period. The notes say the customers would plan completion around this 
date. 
Barclays asked the mortgage adviser for more information about this discussion. The 
adviser says Mr W told her they planned to complete in the new year. From what Mr and 
Mrs W have said, they did at that time intend to complete in early 2020. As this would 
have been within the last 30 days of the product, Barclays wouldnt have applied the 
ERC. If Mr and Mrs W had completed their property transactions in early 2020, as theyd 
told the mortgage adviser they intended to do, they wouldnt have had to pay an ERC.
Mr and Mrs W say they told the mortgage adviser they might complete earlier, and were 
assured shed sort something out. If the mortgage adviser did say this, I dont think this 
necessarily means she made an error. It would have been possible to arrange matters 
so that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to pay an ERC. Mr and Mrs W could have completed in 
December 2019 and still avoided paying the ERC by porting the product. 
Theres no dispute that Barclays and Mr and Mrs W discussed the ERC in October 2019. 
So Mr and Mrs W were aware that an ERC might apply when they repaid their mortgage. 
They could have contacted the mortgage adviser before agreeing to a completion date in 
December 2019, to see if this changed her advice. 
Mr and Mrs W say they signed contracts in late November 2019, and were asked by the 
solicitor if they could complete before Christmas. Mr and Mrs W havent said they 
contacted the mortgage adviser to see how the change in their plans might affect her 
advice. In fact, they say they heard nothing from Barclays until they received the 
redemption statement on 12 December 2019. Based on this and Barclays notes, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs W contacted the mortgage adviser about the change in their plans. I 
dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to contact Mr and Mrs W to check their 
plans hadnt changed.  
Barclays received a request for a redemption statement on 3 December 2019 and sent it 
to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors the following day. This set out the ERC. Its unfortunate this 
didnt reach Mr and Mrs W until 12 December 2019, but I cant see that Barclays was 
responsible for this. 
When Mr and Mrs W became aware of the ERC they contacted Barclays. It says it offered to 
port the product on an expedited basis. Barclays says it was Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor that 
said there wasnt enough time to do this. Mr and Mrs W say Barclays told their solicitor there 
wasnt time to port the product. But I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome here. 
Even if it was too late to port the product or find another way to avoid the ERC being applied, 
I dont think this was due to an error by Barclays.
Mr and Mrs W paid an ERC they hoped to avoid  and I appreciate this is especially 
frustrating when it might have been avoided. But I dont think Barclays made an error. Its 
mortgage adviser gave advice based on what shed been told by Mr and Mrs W. I dont think 
its fair to say Barclays is responsible for the ERC becoming payable due to Mr and Mrs W 
changing their plans without checking with Barclays how this might affect matters. I dont 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund all or part of 
the ERC. Barclays offered compensation to Mr and Mrs W for the time it took to respond to their 
complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so I wont look into this here. I 
leave it to Mr and Mrs W to decide whether to accept this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman