DRN-2101727
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) wont reimburse him for 
transactions he says were carried out fraudulently on his account.
What happened
Mr F has a Capital One credit card account. From August to September 2019 he says a 
number of online payments were carried out without his knowledge or authorisation. He says 
he only realised theyd taken place when he looked at his statements. He first tried to contact 
the companies payments had been made to but they stopped responding to him so he 
contacted Capital One. 
According to Capital Ones records, during the course of raising the disputed transactions 
from August and September 2019 Mr F said he also didnt recognise a number of 
transactions that had taken place in January and February 2019. When Capital One 
investigated the matter it took both transactions in January and February equalling £343.64, 
and transactions in August and September equalling £850.34 into account.
Following its investigation it didnt feel it had seen sufficient evidence fraud had taken place 
and held Mr F liable for the transactions. It said:
A one time security passcode (OTP) was sent to Mr Fs mobile phone number to 
verify the first disputed transaction in August 2019 and the correct code was supplied 
to enable the payment to be made.
Subsequent payments to the same merchant were made using the same mobile 
phone device as the first payment.
The disputed transactions in January 2019 were the first payments being made with 
a newly issued card. So it didnt think it was possible these card details had been 
accessed by an unknown third party as they hadnt been used anywhere else.
It suggested Mr F speak to members of his household who may have access to his 
card and mobile phone.
Mr F felt Capital One was acting unfairly in holding him liable for the transactions. He made a 
complaint but it didnt change its position so he brought the complaint to our service to 
consider. He said that:
He hadnt wanted Capital One to look into the transactions that had taken place in 
January and February. Although he originally thought they were fraudulent he later 
discovered a friend had carried them out without his knowledge and was settling the 
matter with them privately. 
He didnt know how the transactions in August and September had happened or how 
someone had accessed his information but his phone and card were nearly always 
with him and no-on else had access to them.
Hed previously been the victim of fraud and had been advised to reset his devices 
and passwords. He thinks the scammer may have somehow used his IP address and 
other information to make the payments.
He didnt feel Capital One protected his account and alerted him to the activity as it 
shouldve. He said he only used the cards for emergencies and this level of activity 
shouldve alerted it to a problem.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt based on the evidence available it was 
more likely than not Mr F authorised the transactions himself. As Mr F didnt accept this the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking, they set out when a 
customer is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been 
authorised by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a 
customer authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it 
wishes to hold the customer liable.
Mr F says he didnt carry out any of the transactions hes disputing and they mustve been 
carried out by another party. But Capital One thinks its likely they were authorised by Mr F. 
My role is to consider the information available and decide whether I think Capital One has 
acted fairly and reasonable in reaching the conclusion he more likely did carry out the 
transactions himself and therefore should be liable for them.
Ive noted that Mr F no longer wishes to dispute the transactions made in January and 
February, so Ive only considered whether or not he should be liable for the transactions in 
August and September. But, I have still considered the circumstances around the January 
and February transactions where I think theyre relevant to the complaint.
Where evidence hasnt been available Ive based my decision on what I think, on balance, is 
more likely to have happened. And in this case I think its more likely than not Mr F did carry 
out the transactions hes disputing. So I think Capital One is acting reasonably in holding him 
liable for them. Ive taken the following into account when reaching this decision.
The first transaction Mr F is disputing, made on 26 August 2019 prompted a one time 
passcode (OTP) to be sent to the mobile phone number linked to his account records 
which had to be used in order to authenticate the payment. The number it was sent to was 
the same mobile phone number he provided our service when he brought the complaint to 
us so appears to be Mr Fs correct telephone number. 
The OTP was correctly entered when the transaction was carried out. So whoever made the 
payment wouldve needed to have access to both Mr Fs card details and the mobile phone 
connected to his phone number at the time it was made. After this first transaction was 
authenticated with the OTP, the same device (i.e the same mobile phone) was used to carry 
out other disputed transactions. 
Mr F has insisted no one else wouldve have access to his card or his phone. Hes said he 
keeps them close to him and hed asked the people he lives with and they said they didnt 
carry out the transactions. And although hes suggested someone mightve somehow used his IP address, I dont think this is plausible. Especially as this wouldnt explain how the 
scammer also accessed his card and phone. 
But, in addition to the use of the OTP there are other points Ive taken into account in the 
round that have led me decide its more likely than not Mr F carried out the transactions 
himself.
Capital One has provided records that show two text messages were sent and delivered to 
Mr Fs mobile phone number asking him to verify transactions on 26 August 2019 and 
8 September 2019 as they took place. Its records also show that on 8 September it called 
Mr F and left a voicemail about the transactions. And, when the text messages were sent the 
account was temporarily blocked while Capital One waited for a response. Records of the 
account activity show a number of transactions were declined while these temporary blocks 
were in place. 
Mr F has said he didnt receive these alerts and so he didnt contact Capital One to verify the 
payments. Part of his complaint is that Capital One didnt do enough to get in touch with him 
about the disputed activity. But given I can see the correct telephone number was used, they 
were recorded as delivered and I can see the accounts were blocked around the time they 
were sent, I think its likely he received them. So its not clear why he didnt contact 
Capital One to report the unrecognised transactions at that point.
I would expect Capital One to have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other
things) in order to try and prevent financial harm. And I think it has done that here to an 
extent by trying to make contact with Mr F and temporarily blocking his account when it had 
concerns over the activity. 
But I am surprised to see it simply removed these blocks without receiving any further 
verification from Mr F. Particularly as I can see while it was waiting for a response, and the 
account remained blocked, numerous transactions were attempted. Capital One has said it 
will make the decision to remove blocks without customer verification in certain 
circumstances. But its not gone into more detail about why it made that decision in this 
case. 
That said, I can see further investigation into the account activity wouldve shown numerous 
similar transactions had been carried out a few months before and hadnt been disputed. So 
I can see why it might not have considered the August and September transactions 
particularly unusual for Mr F upon further investigation. And in any event, I think its more 
likely than not Mr F did carry out the disputed transactions in this case. So even if I did think 
Capital One ought reasonably to have kept the blocks in place, I wouldnt conclude it had 
failed to protect him from financial crime as I dont think thats taken place here.
Ive also carefully considered the transactions carried out in January and February 2019. 
When he came to our service Mr F said he didnt wish to report these transactions as 
fraudulent and wasnt sure why theyd been reference by Capital One in its response to him. 
And having listened to his initial call with Capital One about this he only refers to four 
transactions in August and September. 
But Capital Ones records show that when it was pointed out to Mr F that one of the August 
payments was made to a company that had been paid multiple times in January and 
February, Mr F appears to have said he didnt recognise any of those transactions either 
which is why the January and February transactions were added to his claim. It seems unusual Mr F didnt report all of the transactions he didnt recognise from the 
outset. And the transactions in January and February 2019 came to a total of over £340 so it 
seems strange he wouldnt have noticed this balance increase sooner than October 2019 
especially as hes said he hardly used the account. And even if he hadnt noticed at the time, 
Im somewhat surprised that when he did notice the transactions he disputed in October he 
didnt look back through his statements to see if there were any other transactions he didnt 
recognise.
When Capital One told Mr F it didnt think hed been a victim of fraud, one of the reasons it 
gave was that the first transaction hed reported, carried out on 27 January 2019, was the 
first transaction using the details on a newly issued card and Mr F hasnt disputed this. So 
these details hadnt been used online anywhere a third party might have access to them and 
there was no plausible explanation as to how a third party couldve obtained this information 
other than someone who had access to his card. It appears that after this, Mr F accepted 
liability for the transactions made in January and February. 
I also find it unusual that Mr F insisted no-one in his personal life couldve accessed his card 
and phone in relation to the August and September transactions, but hes also said this 
exact situation occurred a few months before in January and February, with some payments 
seemingly to the same company. Given how similar in nature these transactions are, its 
unclear why Mr F was so sure this hadnt happened again in August and September, 
especially as he says he doesnt know of any other potential point when his card details 
mightve been compromised. 
Whilst the circumstances around the January and February payments alone arent 
conclusive and I accept new information can come to light at any point, I think its reasonable 
to take these circumstances into account when considering this complaint overall.
Its not always the case that a victim of fraud will know when their card and/or security details 
mightve been compromised or even suspect how their details have been accessed by a 
third party. But in this case, given what Mr F has said and what Ive seen, there isnt a 
plausible explanation as to how someone unknown to Mr F couldve carried out the disputed 
transactions and hes insisted it wasnt someone known to him. Having considered all of the 
evidence available, on balance, I think its more likely than not Mr F authorised the 
transactions. So I think Capital One has acted reasonably in holding him liable for them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 April 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman