DRN-2013029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of 
their car insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss car was involved in an accident on 18 April 2019 and they claimed on their 
Admiral policy. Admiral appointed one of their approved repairers (AR) to repair the car.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the service they received. In particular with the way the AR 
dealt with the repairs. They said there were unreasonable delays; wrong parts were ordered; 
some parts were not ordered at all; and communication was poor. When the AR completed 
the repairs, the standard was poor so the car had to go to a main dealer garage for 
rectification works. The car was finally repaired to a satisfactory standard and returned to 
Mr and Mrs S on 26 August 2019, more than four months after the accident.
Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy that Admiral didnt provide him with a suitable replacement 
car which meant they had to make their own arrangements. Mr and Mrs S said that they both 
had to spend a significant amount of time dealing with the AR, Admiral and the main dealer 
to get things resolved; they had to constantly chase the main dealer to try and get parts 
delivered; they had to make a number of site visits to the AR and the main dealer all of which 
caused them distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs S also said aside from the loss of 
enjoyment and use of their car for pleasure and their business, they also lost out financially 
because they continued to pay the cars personal contract purchase (PCP) instalments 
which were well over £1,000 a month.
On the whole Admiral upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and accepted their service, in 
particular the conduct of their AR, had been poor and that led to most of the delays and 
problems. They offered Mr and Mrs S £200 compensation to address that. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt think that went far enough so they brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He suggested that Admiral should increase their compensation 
by a further £150 to a total of £350. As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 19 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it and ask Admiral to increase their compensation. Ill explain why.
Given Admiral have accepted their service was poor and that the actions of their AR 
led to unreasonable delays and poor repairs that had to be rectified by the main 
dealer, I dont think its necessary for me to outline all the issues in detail given they 
are well known to the parties.
Following Admirals acceptance of the problems and our investigators assessment, 
the main outstanding issue for me to decide is the level of compensation to address 
the impact the errors have had on Mr and Mrs S. Mr S runs a business which I 
understand takes up a substantial amount of his time. For that reason, Mrs S, who is 
a named driver on the policy, has had to step in and spend a lot of her time dealing 
with the various parties and she has had to send emails, make calls and do site visits 
when Mr S hasnt been available.
While I accept that with any accident and subsequent claim there is likely to be a 
degree of inconvenience given there will be disruption to the policyholder. First and 
foremost, they will be without their car for a period of time while its being repaired. 
But I expect that inconvenience and disruption to be kept to a minimum. And I also 
am aware that sometimes unavoidable delays occur which are outside the control of 
an insurer and their AR. But theres no doubt that in this case there were 
unreasonable and lengthy delays that could have been avoided which Admiral have 
accepted. That prolonged the distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs S.
One example of the inconvenience is the fact that Mr S was unable to use his car for 
his business and for pleasure. Mr and Mrs S had a family holiday arranged where 
they planned to take bicycles on their car using a roof rack. The courtesy car allowed 
under his policy only entitled them to a small car. While Admiral did offer to provide 
an estate car that was similar in size to Mr and Mrs Ss own car, they didnt allow for 
any roof attachments to enable them to carry bikes. Ordinarily I would say its 
reasonable for Admiral to only offer a courtesy car that is prescribed in the terms and 
conditions of the policy, in this case a small hatchback car. But where there have 
been unreasonable delays that adversely impact the policyholder, I would expect 
Admiral to adapt their service to lessen the impact. So, while I think Admiral offering 
a larger car was reasonable the restriction of not being allowed to place attachments 
on the car to carry bikes was unreasonable. Had the unreasonable delays not 
occurred and the car been repaired to the correct standard its likely Mr and Mrs S 
would have had their car back on time to use for their holiday and to carry their bikes. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs S had to make their own arrangements for an alternative car.
Where things do go wrong and we expect businesses to put them right. And Admiral 
have clearly put things right by paying the main dealer to fix the car to the correct 
standard. But during that process its clear that Mr and Mrs S have suffered distress 
and inconvenience as a result of Admirals errors. Where that happens, our service 
considers what compensation is reasonable. And as each complaint and the 
circumstances that led to the complaint are different, we consider each case on its 
merits. Different people are impacted in different ways. And assessing what is 
reasonable compensation isnt an exact science.
Ive mentioned that Mr S runs a business which takes up a lot of his time. He uses 
his car for his business. And I understand his time is limited therefore Mr S having to 
spend excessive amounts of time dealing with what was the responsibility of Admiral 
and their AR was unreasonable. Likewise, he had a family holiday booked with the 
car which was a rare occurrence for him so it important that he could enjoy that in his 
car by taking his bikes. And I have seen numerous, detailed emails that both Mr and 
Mrs S have sent to the AR and Admiral in trying to get things resolved. They have 
made numerous phone calls running into hours when cumulated. And having lost 
faith in the AR who admitted a number of failings, Mr and Mrs S took it upon 
themselves out of desperation to contact the main dealer to secure parts for the car 
to be repaired. That too took substantial amounts of their time. Again, that wasnt 
their responsibility but it should have been Admiral and their AR who should have chased the main dealer for parts. And on occasions Mr and Mrs S had to make site 
visits to the AR and the main dealer.
As Ive mentioned earlier, assessing compensation is not an exact science. When 
considering the impact a business mistakes and omissions have had on a consumer 
we categorise the impact under one of the following: moderate, substantial, severe or 
extreme. For the reasons Ive explained above, I consider the impact Admirals errors 
have had on Mr and Mrs S to be substantial. I therefore intend to require Admiral to 
pay them £1,000 compensation to address their distress and inconvenience.
Finally, Id like to address Mr and Mrs Ss comments on their request to have some of 
his PCP payments reimbursed by Admiral. I can understand why Mr and Mrs S feel 
that way but ultimately it was the accident that led to them being without their car. 
And they had a separate contract to make those PCP payments whether they used 
the car or not. And even during the time they didnt enjoy the use of the car their PCP 
payments were made in exchange for an asset, namely the car. Ive said there were 
unreasonable delays caused by Admiral which prolonged the period in which Mr and 
Mrs S were deprived of using and enjoying their car, but in my intended 
compensation I have taken that into consideration. I therefore dont intend to ask 
Admiral to reimburse any of Mr and Mrs Ss PCP payments.
The parties were invited to comment on my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs S accepted my 
provisional decision. Admiral didnt agree with my provisional decision and said:
£1,000 compensation is extreme. £350 is a fair amount but Admiral are prepared to 
pay a further £150 to bring the total to £500. Admiral also covered the cost of a new 
windscreen at £550 as a gesture of goodwill.
They dont agree that because Mr and Mrs S werent allowed to attach bikes to the 
courtesy car Admiral offered had a severe impact. Thats because Admiral did offer a 
bigger car and Mr and Mrs S were still able to go on holiday.
It would also seem the Ombudsman Service has combined 2 complaints in its 
review, I note from our files over these complaints we have already offered a total of 
£400.00 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. But Id like to respond to Admirals 
comments as follows.
While its correct that Admiral did offer Mr and Mrs S a courtesy car that was larger than 
what they were entitled to under the policy, Admiral didnt allow them to attach a bike rack to 
be able to take their bikes on holiday with them. Because of that restriction, the offer of a 
larger car didnt benefit Mr and Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S had to go through the inconvenience of 
making their own arrangements for an alternative car where they were able to transport their 
bikes. Had the unreasonable delays in repairing their own car not happened, Mr and Mrs S 
would have had their car back in time for their holiday.
Admiral said they paid to replace the cars windscreen as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and 
Mrs S dispute that. They said before the accident the windscreen wasnt cracked. After 
Admirals ARs substandard repairs, the car was taken to the main dealer garage at which 
point the crack was noticed. Mr and Mrs S said Admirals AR missed the cracked windscreen 
which is why they didnt replace it. Given the failings and poor-quality work of the AR, I think it is possible that they missed the cracked windscreen. If thats the case and the windscreen 
was damaged during the accident, as Mr and Mrs S said it was, then the replacement of it 
was not a gesture of good will by Admiral as they were required to replace it as part of the 
claim. 
Admiral said £1,000 compensation is extreme. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
calculating compensation isnt an exact science. And we consider the impact errors have 
had on consumers in each individual case. The specific circumstances of each case are 
different. And different consumers are affected in different ways. For the reasons Ive 
explained in my provisional decision, I think Admirals errors had a substantial impact on Mr 
and Mrs S. And having considered awards we have made in complaints of similar 
seriousness; my view remains the same that £1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Finally, Admiral have suggested Ive combined two separate complaints in my review. 
Admiral havent explained what they meant by that. What I will say is that Mr and Mrs S 
complained about the poor service they received from Admiral which included unreasonable 
delays and poor-quality repairs. That is what Ive considered in this complaint.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay Mr and Mrs S £1,000 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs S £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs S 
have accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs S how much they have taken off. They should also give them 
a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 