DRN-3188456
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with Santander. In 2019 they took out a fixed rate. An ERC 
applied if the mortgage was repaid before December 2024. They had agreed with Santander 
to port their existing mortgage to a new property to avoid the ERC. But the intended buyers 
of their home pulled out at a late stage. 
Mr and Mrs C decided to carry on with the purchase of the new property using funds from a 
variety of sources. But they found that Santander wouldnt allow them to port their existing 
mortgage once they had found a new buyer as it didnt allow porting to a property already 
owned by the borrowers. So they had to pay the ERC when they repaid the mortgage.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
They were only told they couldnt port to a property they already owned after the sale fell 
through.
At no point did Santander offer any support or guidance  despite being told that 
Santander had the discretion to waive the ERC.
They still want to port the mortgage and borrow more money as originally agreed. It was 
never their intention to go back on what was agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs C found themselves in a very difficult position when their house sale 
fell through at the mast minute. I understand why continuing with their intended purchase 
was the right thing for them. I accept it must have been a stressful experience. The fact that 
they later found out they couldnt port their mortgage and would incur an ERC will only have 
added to that. But looking at what happened, I cant see there has been any mistake by 
Santander or that it has treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.
Santander initially agreed to port the mortgage to the new property and for additional 
borrowing to allow the purchase to go ahead, but that is not what happened. Because Mr 
and Mrs C now owned the property Santander, in common with many lenders, would not 
allow the mortgage to be ported. I cant see that Santander ever led Mr and Mrs C to believe 
this option was a possibility.
When Mr and Mrs C took out the mortgage they agreed that an ERC would apply if it was 
repaid before December 2024. As the mortgage was repaid before then, Santander is 
therefore entitled to apply the ERC.
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed. But I cant see that Santander has made any error 
here. They are correct that Santander does have the discretion to waive the ERC. But I cant 
see that there are any reasons that would allow me to say that it must do so here.
My final decision
My final decision is tthat I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman