DRN-3269089
The complaint
Mr L complains that BUPA Insurance Limited refused to cover the cost of his treatment 
under a private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L holds private medical insurance cover through a group scheme with his employer. The 
policy year runs from 1 October to 30 September. 
In September 2021, BUPA authorised treatment for Mr L. He had three appointments with 
his specialist. Mr L then learnt that hed used up all of his outpatient allowance earlier in the 
policy year, and that he was therefore liable for the cost of the treatment. 
Mr L complained about this. He said BUPA hadnt told him that the policy limit would reset on 
1 October 2021. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought BUPA had made it 
clear that Mr L had used up all of his outpatient allowance, and that the policy limit would 
reset on 1 October 2021.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme has annual limits which reset on renewal. It provides £1,500 of cover per year 
for outpatient consultations, therapies and diagnostic tests. 
Mr Ls wife called BUPA on his behalf on 25 September 2021. Ive listened to this call, and 
BUPA made Mrs L aware that her husband had used up all of his outpatient benefit for that 
policy year. BUPA explained that the policy would renew on 1 October 2021, and the benefit 
would refresh from that date. BUPA made it clear that so long as the treatment took place 
after 1 October 2021, then the outpatient benefit of £1,500 would be available. Mrs L 
understood this. 
Despite this, Mr L went ahead with outpatient treatment before the cover renewed on 1 
October 2021. As Mr L had used up his outpatient allowance in the policy year 1 October 
2020  30 September 2021, Im satisfied that he was responsible for the cost of this 
treatment.
Mr L thinks BUPA ought to make members aware of their remaining limit after each medical 
appointment. However, an insurer can only advise a member of their remaining limit based 
on the invoices received. Given that there may be some time between the date of treatment 
and the date an insurer receives the invoice, its for a member to keep track of their 
treatment costs if they dont want to exceed the policy limits. 
Here, BUPA was aware that Mr L had exceeded his outpatient limit, and it advised his wife of 
this when it authorised the further treatment. I think that was reasonable, and so I dont find 
that BUPA did anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman