DRN-4190835
The complaint
Mr E has made a number of complaints against West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) relating 
to the pricing of his pet insurance policy and a delay in processing a claim for the cost of 
treatment for his dog.
References herein to West Bay include its agents and administrators.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr E took out insurance for his pet dog who Ill refer to as F  via a price 
comparison website. Mr E has said that when it came to stating Fs breed, this wasnt given 
as an available option, so Mr E selected an alternative category of crossbreed as his dogs 
breed, although a recognised breed in its own right, is a cross between two other breeds. 
West Bay issued a policy on the basis of this information.
In October 2022, Mr E made a claim when F became sick with gastroenteritis. Her treatment 
cost around £1,000. It was during the claim process that West Bay noted Fs specific breed. 
This was a breed for which a higher premium wouldve been charged from inception if West 
Bay had been given the correct information. 
West Bay therefore amended Mr Es premium and backdated this to the policys inception. It  
took a payment  from him of £206.51 without notifying him directly. 
Mr Es claim was initially submitted via his vets in late October 2022. When West Bay said it 
hadnt received the claim it was re-sent on 3 November 2022. Mr E was told that claims were 
delayed, and it would take up to 28 days for him to receive an outcome. He didnt receive a 
response to his claim until 12 December 2022.
Mr E complained to West Bay about three issues.
 
1. The increase in his premium because of the correction to Fs breed.
Mr E argues that he had no option to specify Fs breed when taking out his policy and at no 
point was he asked to confirm it until he made a claim. This resulted in an increase in 
premium from £25.16 to £45.31 per month. He says that had he known when he took out his 
policy that it would cost him £45.31, he wouldve gone with another provider. He says that as 
he has now made a claim, he feels trapped into paying a higher premium. He feels the right 
outcome would be for his premiums to continue to be based on the crossbreed rate.
West Bays response to Mr Es complaint was that a pets breed is one of the factors used to 
price a policy and when Fs policy was updated with her specific breed the premium 
increased and this couldnt be changed.
2.The backdating of his increased premium.
Mr E is unhappy that the increase in premium was only communicated to him through West 
Bays portal. Had he been notified by email or informed by email that there was a new 
message on his portal, he couldve avoided the mistake of the backdating of his premium 
and the shock of seeing that an additional £181.35 had been taken from his bank account.
West Bay agreed that it shouldnt have taken this payment and refunded it to Mr E on 9 
December 2022. It has now applied the increased premium only from the date upon which it 
knew Fs correct breed. 
3. The delay in processing his claim
When Mr E hadnt received a response to his claim by 9 December 2022, he  raised a 
further complaint about the delay in giving him a decision on his claim. This delay caused 
him considerable stress as he was by then £1,000 out of pocket. 
In a response to Mr E on 9 December 2022, West Bay referred to a call made to it by Mr E 
on 2 December which acknowledged that the claim had at that time gone over the 4-week 
time frame for consideration of claims so his claim would be prioritised. It said that priority 
assessments are completed within 2-3 working days. It took a further 5 working days for Mr 
E to receive a response. So although West Bay paid Mr Es claim, this was not within the 
timeframe it had indicated.
In its final response to Mr Es complaint, West Bay apologised for the payment error. It also 
sent Mr E £75 by way of an apology for the delay in the processing of his claim.
Mr E wasnt satisfied with West Bays response to his complaint and brought it to this 
service. He wants West Bay to increase his compensation and to revert his monthly 
premiums back to the price paid at policy inception with yearly reviews calculated from this 
price.
Our investigators view was that although things could have gone better at times, he 
considered that West Bay had acted reasonably in addressing Mr Es concerns and that the 
apology it had provided was sufficient redress.
Mr E isnt satisfied with our investigators view and has asked that his complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me to provide a final decision from this 
service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Es complaints in part. Ill refer to each of these in turn.
In relation to the Mr Es complaint about the increase in premium when it was made aware of 
Fs correct breed, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
It is customary for insurers to charge different premiums for different breeds of dog because 
of the differing risks of claims between breeds. If an insurer prices a policy on the basis of  a 
dog being of a particular breed, or of no specific breed, and the dog is actually another 
breed, that can impact on the insurers risk and consequently the premium it would charge.  
So it is reasonable for a correction to a premium to be made in those circumstances. It is 
likely that other insurers would act in a similar manner.
Mr Es argument is in essence that it wasnt his fault that F was described as a crossbreed 
when he applied for his policy. He says that there was no provision to specify Fs breed when he initially selected the policy as it wasnt shown as an option. He therefore chose 
crossbreed as this was technically correct.
Ive visited the price comparison website that Mr E used and conducted a dummy enquiry. It 
asks the question Is (dogs name) a crossbreed?, with a Yes/No answer option. Beside this 
question is a symbol indicating that information is available. On clicking this, the following 
appears (with some wording highlighted in bold):
Sometimes when crossbreeds are bred together for a long time they are 
eventually considered a new pedigree breed so if you are unsure, select No and 
check if your dogs breed is listed. If your dogs breed isnt listed as a pedigree or if you 
dont know the breed of your dog, select Yes.
Mr E says he clicked Yes. If No is selected, another box appears asking for the dogs 
breed. It asks for the first three letters of the breed, upon which a number of breeds that start 
with those letters appears in a drop-down menu. This list includes Fs breed. Its a breed that 
is now well recognised as a breed in its own right and the option was there to select it. There 
was no need for Mr E to have said that F was a crossbreed.
Further, on 2 March 2022, after hed taken out his policy, Mr E was sent an introduction 
email which gave him access to his policy documents and included the following instruction:
3. Check your Schedule and Statement of Fact and inform us in the first instance if any 
details are incorrect. Failure to do so could result in a claim not being paid.
Mr Es Policy Schedule shows F s breed as small crossbreed. The Statement  of Fact also 
records F as a small crossbreed and further states (my emphasis underlined):
Your Statement of Fact shows the cover you have selected and is a record of the 
information and answers provided which have been used by the insurers to assess and 
accept the risk.
We can only accept accurate and factually correct information to allow us to provide you 
with cover. This will ensure:
- there are no complications or delays during the claims process.
- it is not cancelled due to misrepresentation leaving your pet uninsured and at risk.
Please take reasonable care to ensure all questions have been answered honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge. If you don't, your policy may be cancelled or treated as if 
it never existed or your claim rejected or not fully paid.
Please check this Statement of Fact. If any information is incorrect or has changed from 
the application date or at any time since, you will need to let us know immediately. You 
will be informed of any changes in the premium and a revised Statement of Fact will be 
issued to you.
I consider that Mr E was aware of Fs breed as hes said he couldnt find it listed, and so 
opted instead for crossbreed, the implication being that he wouldve selected Fs breed if it 
had been available for selection. Im satisfied that it was available and that there was 
guidance in the application form that he could have followed.
If, following receipt of his Policy Schedule and Statement of fact, Mr E had contacted West 
Bay to provide Fs specific breed, he wouldve been informed of the additional premium required. Other insurers are likely to have acted in a similar manner. He couldve then 
cancelled the policy during his 14-day cooling off period.
Given the warning contained in the Statement of Fact, West Bay wouldve been within its 
rights to reject Mr Es claim. Instead in my view it acted reasonably in allowing a change to 
Fs breed for an adjustment of premium to what it would have been had correct information 
been given. Alternatively, it couldve pro-rated Mr Es claim and paid only a proportion of it, 
that being the same proportion as his original premium bore to his new premium.
So my conclusion in relation to this complaint is that West Bay has acted reasonably given 
the incorrect information upon which it based Mr Es premium. 
Turning to Mr Es complaint about West Bay taking the additional premium, West Bay has 
acknowledged that this was an error on its part and corrected this by refunding it and issuing 
an apology. I accept Mr Es point that to inform him of this payment via his portal was not a 
method likely to bring this promptly to his attention. However he was informed, so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
With regard to Mr Es complaint about the delay in processing his claim, I can quite 
understand his concern. He was faced with a liability to his vets for over £1,000 and 
wouldve been anxious about this. West Bay didnt process his claim in line with its 
expressed timescale. Mr E expected a response by no later than 5 December and West Bay 
didnt respond until 9 December. Im upholding this complaint.
I dont consider that West Bay has acted as fairly as it might have done towards Mr E in the 
slow processing of his claim, but it has apologised and has paid him £75 by way of 
compensation. I consider this to be fair as a resolution of Mr Es complaint and in line with 
the levels of compensation this service would award in similar circumstances. Im therefore 
not going to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im partially upholding Mr Es complaints but I dont require 
West Bay Insurance Ltd to do anything more than it has already done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman