DRN-2707671
The complaint
Mr S complained that he has been harassed by TSB Bank Plc for repayment of a debt that 
he doesnt owe. He also believes that theyve shared personal data without his consent
.
Mr S is represented by another party in bringing this complaint. But, for simplicity, Ive 
referred to all comments and evidence as being made by Mr S directly.
What happened
Mr S received a letter at his address from a debt collection agency dated 4 January 2020. 
They said that theyd been instructed by TSB to contact their customer in relation to an 
outstanding debt with them. But Mr S had no existing or past relationship with TSB and had 
no knowledge of the debt referred to. Mr S was worried that the letter may be a fraudulent 
approach.
 
So, he contacted TSBs fraud department on 9 January 2020. He explained that he thought 
that there had been a mistake. TSB confirmed that an error had been made and that Mr S 
wasnt the party that owed the debt. They agreed to contact the debt collection agency to 
stop any potential action against him and make sure that the records were corrected.
On 14 January 2020, Mr S received a further letter at his address from the debt collection 
agency. They were asking the TSB customer to contact them in relation to an amount owed. 
So, Mr S wrote to the debt collection agency on 16 January to complain about their 
approaches. He also told them about his conversation with TSB.
On 11 March, the debt collection agency responded to Mr Ss complaint. They apologised for 
their letters and confirmed that he was not the party they had been instructed to contact. 
They also paid compensation of £50.
Mr S received a letter to his address from TSB dated 17 March 2020 advising that the debt 
had been transferred to another debt collection agency. This was followed by a letter of the 
same date from that debt collection agency requesting that TSBs customer contact them to 
discuss the amount owed.
 
So, Mr S telephoned TSB again on 19 March 2020 to explain what had happened. He also 
called the debt collection agency to raise a formal complaint that he was being harassed for 
a debt he didnt owe. TSB responded in writing on the same day confirming that they had no 
record of Mr S being a customer. They asked that he return any correspondence received 
marking it as Not known at this address. 
A third party sent a letter of complaint to TSB on Mr Ss behalf, dated 20 March 2020. Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with TSBs original response. He said that theyd harassed him for money 
that he didnt owe. He also said that they had shared personal information with third parties 
without his consent. TSB acknowledged his complaint in a letter dated 27 March 2020.
On 1 April, Mr S received an email notification from a credit reference agency. They said that 
an unrecorded enquiry had been carried out on 19 March 2020 by TSB. 
Mr S then received a letter from TSB dated 6 April 2020. They said that they couldnt 
respond to the third-partys complaint letter without Mr Ss consent. Mr S was unhappy with 
TSBs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
contacted TSB. They responded and said that they would like the opportunity to investigate 
further as they hadnt received a complaint from Mr S himself.
 
TSB responded by letter dated 17 December 2020. They apologised for what had happened 
and confirmed that there had been several previous contacts regarding the matter. They 
confirmed that Mr S wouldnt receive any further related correspondence. They also 
confirmed that they hadnt recorded any adverse information against Mr Ss credit file. TSB 
enclosed a cheque for £100 to compensate Mr S for the upset and frustration caused.
Mr S was not happy with TSBs response and offer. He didnt consider the matter resolved. 
He believed that there had been data protection breaches and that the compensation 
amount wasnt enough. He wanted the complaint to be investigated further by our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think that TSB needed to do any 
more here. So, Mr S asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a Final 
Decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this, I need to recognise that Mr Ss complaint here is against TSB and not the 
debt collection agencies that wrote to him on several occasions. So, I have looked at the 
actions of TSB to consider whether they were appropriate and reasonable.
 
TSB have confirmed that there is an outstanding debt with them in a name similar to that of 
Mr S. However, they have also now confirmed that there are small differences between Mr 
Ss details and that of their customer. It appears that both parties share the same first name, 
surname and date of birth.
TSB passed their customers details to a third party for help in recovering the debt. The third 
party instructed a debt collection agency to act on TSBs behalf in the recovery of the 
outstanding debt. The debt collection agency wrote to TSBs customer using the contact 
information provided to them. In the absence of a reply, the debt collection agency 
completed a trace by searching public records. They wanted to see whether TSBs customer 
may now be living at a different address. They identified Mr Ss address because of the 
personal details that he shares with TSBs customer. As this search was completed by the 
debt collection agency, I cant hold TSB responsible for mistakenly identifying the address.
They wrote to TSBs customer at the address they had found. TSB have confirmed that it 
isnt unusual for debt collection agencies to undertake a trace in these circumstances. 
Unfortunately, Mr S wasnt the same person and it understandably caused him great 
concern.
Mr S contacted TSB to discuss what had happened and they agreed that he didnt owe them 
money, TSB also agreed to tell the debt collection agency so that he wouldnt receive further 
letters at his address. But it appears that this may not have happened, resulting in further 
letters being sent. So, I agree here that TSB shouldve done more to ensure that the debt 
collection agency didnt continue to write to Mr Ss address.After Mr S contacted the debt collection agency to complain and they responded, TSBs file 
was reallocated by the third party to a different debt collection agency. But it appears that Mr 
Ss address was also included within the information passed on. This resulted in Mr S 
receiving further letters at his address. I can completely understand how worrying this would 
be for Mr S. Particularly when hed already raised the issue with both TSB and the original 
debt collection agency.
As a result, a relative of Mrs S wrote to TSB, on his behalf with a formal complaint. They 
included full details of all previous letters and telephone calls that had been made. But TSB 
werent able to respond to this letter as it didnt include an authority from Mr S for this person 
to act on his behalf. I can see why TSB would say this. Any complaint would need to be 
brought by the individual to whom it relates. Any third-party representative would need to be 
authorised to act on his behalf.
When this service approached TSB in relation to Mr Ss complaint, TSB asked for time to 
investigate it fully. They were able to do this as Mr S had authorised us to act on his behalf. 
This resulted in a written response to Mr S from TSB dated 17 December 2020. The letter 
included a cheque for £100 to acknowledge the upset and frustration caused.
The key issues here stems from the fact that Mr Ss address was identified mistakenly by the 
debt collection agency and, once advised, TSB didnt ensure that the debt collection 
agencies would stop writing to Mr Ss address when theyd agreed that they would. Had this 
been done, I believe that Mr S wouldnt have received any further letters or contact. Also, it 
appears that when a new debt collection agency was instructed, the file passed to them from 
the original debt collection agency still included Mr Ss address. I cant hold TSB responsible 
for information passed between these two parties. And I cant find any evidence, from the 
information provided, to suggest that TSB shared any of Mr Ss personal details with any 
other party.
Mr S says that TSB carried out a search on his credit file with a credit reference agency. This 
was reported as an unrecorded enquiry. So, this means that no public record of that search 
will be held on Mr Ss credit file for any other party or organisation to see. TSB have 
confirmed that the search was not credit related which means it will not have any adverse 
impact upon Mr S. This type of search is used where a financial institution wishes to verify 
an individuals name and address.
So, to summarise, I agree that TSB made a mistake by not acting sooner regarding Mr Ss 
original contact with them in January 2020. Normally, any breaches of data protection rules 
should be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) for investigation but I 
havent seen anything here which makes me think that TSB have acted unfairly beyond their 
mistake in taking steps to stop Mr S being contacted about this debt.
Mr S believes that the compensation awarded should be more substantial than that already 
offered. Its important to recognise that our role is to provide a fair and impartial service to 
help settle disputes. It is not a regulatory one. Neither is it our role to penalise financial 
institutions where they make a mistake. Where a mistake has been made, we can award an 
amount that we consider fair compensation to ensure that a customer hasnt lost out 
financially. We may also consider awards to reflect distress and inconvenience.
   
From the information provided, I cant see that Mr S has been impacted financially. But I do 
understand that he will have been very worried and inconvenienced by what he has 
experienced. I realise that Mr S will be disappointed, but I believe that the amount offered by 
TSB of £100 is in line with what I would expect to see and is fair in this case. They have also 
offered to consider any expenses that Mr S has incurred as a result of their mistake. If Mr S 
wishes to make a claim, I would urge him to provide details to TSB as soon as possible so that this may be considered by them. But as he hasnt done that to date, I cant say that TSB 
needs to do any more in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman