DRN-1869915
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2001 with 
an Egg credit card. Mrs G says Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg, 
(Canada Square) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because and Ill explain why. 
Mrs G says she would never have requested PPI and there mustve been some error. She 
adds she didnt even know she had it until she started checking her records more recently. 
Canada Square says it was added to her account after she requested cover. Where there is 
a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the available 
evidence - this includes Mrs Gs testimony and any documents both Mrs G and Canada 
Square have submitted. 
Mrs G applied for her credit card and PPI online. Canada Square has given us example 
screenshots of the sorts of questions it says Mrs G wouldve been asked in her online 
application and these show that customers were given a choice to add or decline PPI. 
CanadaSquare provided its online customers with the option to either click Yes to add PPI, 
or No to decline it. I can also see from Canada Squares record of her application that PPI 
was selected. Ive also seen Mrs Gs credit card statements and the PPI clearly appears on 
them. 
Having thought carefully about everything Ive seen and heard, and while I appreciate 
MrsGs strength of feeling regarding this, I think its more likely that Mrs G clicked the Yes 
box and selected PPI - although given how long ago this policy was purchased, I can 
understand why she may not remember that now. 
So, overall, I think Canada Square made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Canada Square recommended the PPI to Mrs G, 
so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable. 
I understand Mrs G says her employer provided her with sick pay which they wouldve paid 
for what they felt was a reasonable period and she also says her parents couldve helped 
her. But she had no other means to make her repayments should she have found herself 
unexpectedly out of work. 
This policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay her employed decided to offer her and 
for up to 12 months if Mrs G couldnt work because illness, injury or unemployment. While I 
have no doubt her parents wouldve wanted to help her, their ability to help wouldve 
depended on their own circumstances at the time. So, I think having a policy pay out in 
difficult times for up to 12 months would still have been useful for her. 
So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman