DRN-4002920
The complaint
Miss F, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
 
What happened
Miss F was advanced five home collected loans and Ive included some of the information 
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £100.00 15/08/2014 20/03/2015 34 £5.00
2 £10.00 19/11/2014 19/11/2014 34 £0.50
3 £200.00 19/11/2014 13/05/2015 34 £10.00
4 £200.00 20/03/2015 30/09/2016 34 £10.00
5 £200.00 13/05/2015 outstanding 34 £10.00
Miss F has had some problems with her final loan, and as of October 2022, Morses has said 
she still owes £129. 
Following Miss Fs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Miss Fs representative then referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1  3 and so she didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint about them. But 
due to the passage of time, Morses didnt have any information or details of the likely income 
and expenditure information it gathered. 
But the adjudicator concluded when loans 4 and 5 were given to Miss F, taking into account 
loan 1 had just been repaid and loan 3 was still outstanding Morses needed to have gone 
further with its checks, perhaps verifying the information Miss F provided it. But Miss Fs 
representative hadnt provided copies of her bank statements or a copy of her credit file and 
so she couldnt say what Morses may have seen by carrying out better checks. 
Miss F through her representative said she wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
She also said:
I am unable to access the bank statements for the old bank account. I do not have 
any log in details for the online banking, I do not know any of the old account details 
so unfortunately I cant get hold of the old bank statements.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss F could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Fs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss F. These factors include:
Miss F having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss F having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss F coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss F. The adjudicator thought this 
didnt apply to Miss Fs complaint. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss F could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss F was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Fs complaint.
Loans 1  3 
It is likely that as part of Miss Fs loan applications Morses wouldve taken details of her 
income and expenditure. However, the information Morses likely collected about Miss Fs 
income and expenditure information isnt available  and Morses has suggested this is 
because it is unable to locate the information The information is unlikely to be available 
due to the passage of time since these loans were advanced and that isnt surprising.  Morses also confirmed it doesnt hold any credit check results for Miss F. This may be 
because a credit check was carried out and it no longer has the data  due to the passage of 
time. Or one wasnt carried out at all. Miss F also hasnt provided a copy of her credit file. 
So, Ive proceeded to review the complaint without this information. 
Ive also considered, how these loans were repaid, and there wasnt anything in the 
repayment history that ought to have prompted Morses to have carried out further checks at 
this time or have led it to decline a later loan.  
So, due to a lack of information  from either party, given the term of the loan and the checks 
that Morses likely carried out  albeit we dont have the results, it is likely, on balance, that 
Miss F provided information to Morses to enable it to satisfy itself that Miss F could afford 
these loan repayments. 
I am therefore not upholding Miss Fs complaint about these loans. 
Loans 4 and 5
Morses wouldve likely asked Miss F for her income and expenditure when these two loans 
were approved. But as above, no information has been provided from Morses about what 
Miss F may or may not have declared. So, I dont and cant know what information she gave. 
But like the adjudicator I do agree at this point, for these two loans further checks ought to 
have been carried out in order to build a more detailed picture of Miss Fs financial position. 
By loan 4, Miss F had been indebted to Morses for around seven months and her borrowing 
had started to increase. Loan 4 was double the value of loan 1 and due to the outstanding 
commitment Miss F had for loan 3, her weekly commitment were now four times as large. In 
addition, loan 4 was taken on the same day that loan 1 was repaid. 
So, I dont think the checks before approving loans 4 and 5 went far enough. Given the 
factors Ive mentioned above, I think Morses needed to gain a full understanding of Miss Fs 
actual financial position to ensure these loans were affordable and sustainable. 
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, 
looking at bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation Morses felt it needed 
to obtain in order to have satisfied itself these loans were affordable for Miss F. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold loans 4 and 5, I have 
to be satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it 
wouldve likely discovered that Miss F couldnt afford the loans, or Morses was given some 
other evidence which indicated the loans were unsustainable in some other way.
Miss F has told her representative she cant access or obtain details of her bank statements 
from the period of time when these loans were granted. And without anything further, I cant 
be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold 
the complaint about loans 4 or 5 either. 
I am therefore not upholding Miss Fs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman