DRN-3510920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited 
(Aviva). They complain about the amount Aviva paid them for alternative accommodation 
when their home was uninhabitable. References to Aviva include other organisations and 
individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
There was a water leak at Mr and Mrs Gs home. The water supply had to be turned off while 
repairs were carried out, so Mr and Mrs G were unable to live there. Aviva spoke to them 
about arranging alternative accommodation. It was initially thought this would just be for a 
couple of weeks. Mr and Mrs G found a hotel nearby which would cost £128 per night. Aviva 
found a hotel further away which varied slightly in cost up to £90 a night. Aviva said it would 
also pay Mr and Mrs G £15 a night each for food. 
Aviva said it would pay Mr and Mrs G £120 a night. Mr and Mrs G say they thought this 
meant Aviva would pay £120 a night for the hotel accommodation, plus the £30 a night for 
food. They were happy to pay the £8 difference a night themselves for their chosen hotel, as 
it was suitable for their needs. Mr and Mrs G say that due to Covid-19 they both had to work 
from home and needed to use their own secure Wi-Fi. Only one of them can drive so they 
needed a hotel within walking distance so they could use the toilet and other facilities during 
the day. Mr and Mrs G say because they were both working, it wouldnt always be possible 
or practicable for one of them to drive the other back to a hotel during the day. Mr and Mrs G 
say the hotel they chose was the nearest to their home and the hotel suggested by Aviva 
wasnt within walking distance.
After the first payment was made to them by Aviva, Mr and Mrs G realised they were only 
getting a total of £120 a night. They raised this with Aviva, who said it had agreed a 
maximum of £90 a night for accommodation as this is what the other hotel would have 
charged. 
It turned out that the repairs to Mr and Mrs Gs home took a lot longer than expected and 
they actually had to stay in the hotel for around two months. Aviva paid them £120 a night for 
this time.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this, and complained to Aviva. Aviva said it had agreed 
£90 for accommodation plus £15 each per night for food and had suggested a hotel which 
was available at this price. Aviva said it had confirmed to Mr and Mrs G that they would have 
to meet any extra costs if they chose to stay elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator upheld their complaint. She said Aviva could have done more to ensure the 
alternative accommodation offered was suitable. She said she didnt feel the hotel found by 
Mr and Mrs G was unreasonable. So she said Aviva should pay the full alternative 
accommodation costs plus interest.
Aviva didnt agree with the investigators suggestion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr and Mrs G want Aviva to pay the full £128 a night for their chosen hotel 
accommodation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
On 3 May 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Gs insurance policy says:
Loss of rent and the cost of alternative accommodation
If the home is damaged by any cause listedand, as a result, it cannot be lived in, we will 
payany reasonable additional accommodation expensesuntil the home is ready to be 
lived in.
When we refer to reasonable accommodation expensesthis means that we will pay for 
alternative accommodation for youtaking all the circumstances of your claim into account, 
including factors such as your own needs, the alternative (and comparable costs of) 
accommodation available in the area, and the length of time for which it is required.
Ive seen an email from Mrs G to Aviva which says:
This is the link to [the nearest hotel] rate is £128 per night for 2.
Aviva replied:
Ive spoken to the loss adjuster and he says there is [an alternative hotel] thats available 
and he will give that full allowance as discussed if you can have a look at booking that. Also 
if you book that online its actually cheaper so the insurance will cover that full £120 per night 
but as I said it may be cheaper for you. If you can let me know if this is suitable the money 
will be paid direct into your bank by him ?
Mrs G replied:
Wed be happy to pay the extra £8 per night ourselves if Aviva are happy to pay the £120.
Aviva didnt reply so Mrs G emailed again:
Sorry to hassle did Aviva come back at all on my suggestion ?
Aviva replied:
Ive been told by the loss adjuster that the payment will be in your bank tomorrow for the full 
duration.
All these emails were sent on the same day. Aviva says this was the first day alternative 
accommodation was discussed, following advice from the contractor that Mr and Mrs Gs 
house would be uninhabitable. Aviva says phone calls about this werent recorded. So I cant say what else might or might 
not have been said.
I accept that Aviva thought it was agreeing a total of £120 a night for accommodation and 
food. However I think the email to Mrs G didnt set this out clearly, and I also accept that Mr 
and Mrs G thought they would be paid £120 a night for their hotel plus £30 for food.
I think that as soon as Mr and Mrs G told Aviva this it should have discussed things further 
with them. Aviva could then have understood Mr and Mrs Gs reasons for their choice of 
hotel, and perhaps discussed other solutions with them if it didnt want to pay for their 
chosen hotel. 
Aviva says its chosen hotel was a 20 minute walk further away than Mr and Mrs Gs choice 
of hotel. I dont think its reasonable to expect someone to walk this far every time they need 
to use the toilet or other facilities, especially during a working day. Neither would it be 
reasonable to expect one of them to stop work to drive the other back to the hotel. The policy 
says Aviva will pay reasonable accommodation expenses taking all the circumstances of the 
claim into account, including factors such as the customers own needs. I dont think Avivas 
chosen hotel fell within this definition.
So I dont think Aviva have acted fairly or reasonably.
My provisional decision
I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £150 a night for the period 
of their claim, less any amount already paid to them, plus interest. This represents the £120 
a night Mr and Mrs G say they thought they were being paid for their hotel plus the £30 a 
night agreed for food.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs G and Aviva responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing 
further to add. Having thought about the circumstances once again I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £150 a night for the period of their 
claim, less any amount already paid to them. This represents the £120 a night Mr and Mrs G 
say they thought they were being paid for their hotel plus the £30 a night agreed for food.
This payment is to include interest at 8% a year simple from the date Mr and Mrs G paid for 
the hotel to the date of payment. 
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman