DRN-4243768
The complaint
Mr S complains that Koto Card Limited (trading as The Credit Thing) was irresponsible to 
lend to him.
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card with The Credit Thing on 3 January 2022 and was approved 
for a card with a £500 limit.
Mr S says he had over £30,00 of debt and a lot of short-term borrowing when he applied for 
the credit card. He says his salary was insufficient to cover the repayments and further credit 
was unaffordable.
The Credit Thing says it checked Mr Ss credit file and verified his income and the 
information did not suggest he was in financial difficulties. It says the new credit was 
affordable and the lending was not irresponsible.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that The Credit Thing had carried out proportionate checks and that it made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it received.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that he was at the peak of his spiralling debt at the time, 
and this was the last credit arrangement he had approved. He adds that he had a revolving 
payday loan and that this lender agreed the lending had been irresponsible since August 
2018. Mr S says he was making only minimum repayments on three existing credit cards, 
had opened multiple new accounts just prior to the credit card application and had an 
overdraft and other loans. He explains that his income was variable, and he had a gambling 
issue at the time. Mr S adds that he was using loans to repay other creditors, had less work 
available due to Covid and it had affected his relationships and mental health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ss case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did The Credit Thing complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ss application and credit limit to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did The Credit Thing make a fair lending decision?
Did The Credit Thing act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show The Credit Thing asked Mr S about his income and expenditure, 
verified these figures, and checked his credit file. Those checks showed:
A verified monthly income of just under £6,000 (compared with the figure of £9,500 
declared by Mr S);
Monthly expenditure of around £4,450  Mr S declared £1,500;
Credit file information as follows:
oEight active credit accounts;
oTotal debt of £24,169, comprising loans of £17,014 and credit cards of 
£7,155;
oA combined credit card limit of £7,200;
oOne search for credit in the preceding 12 months;
oMonthly repayments on loans of £454;
oNo arrears, defaults or County Court Judgements.
I am satisfied that these checks went far enough because:
Mr S had roughly £1,500 of disposable income per month;
The credit card was approved with a limit of only £500;
His total debt was not unreasonable given his annual income;
Including credit card repayments, Mr S was only committing around 13% of his 
verified income to credit each month;
There was no evidence of multiple new accounts or financial difficulty with his 
existing accounts;
I accept Mr S says he had developed a gambling problem and a complaint about another 
lender had been upheld on that basis. However, as I find The Credit Things checks were 
proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and the information it had available, I 
cannot conclude it needed to carry out the level of checks that would have been needed to 
identify the gambling expenditure.
In summary, I find The Credit Thing completed reasonable and proportionate checks and 
made a fair lending decision. Ive seen no evidence to suggest it acted unfairly in any other 
way.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman