DRN-2333124
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way that Tesco Mobile Limited has dealt with the early termination 
of a credit agreement under which a mobile phone was supplied to him.  
What happened
Mr N entered into a credit agreement with Tesco Mobile that he electronically signed in 
December 2017 for a new mobile phone to be supplied to him. He agreed to make 30 
monthly payments of £23.99 for the phone and to pay £11 each month for his usage of it  
but he received a family perk which reduced the total monthly payment to £32.99. 
Mr N wanted to terminate the contract early so he went into a store in December 2019 and 
was told he would need to pay £160 to do so. He then contacted Tesco Mobile and was told 
that the amount that he would need to pay was £119.95. He wasnt satisfied with the 
explanation that he was given for the difference so he complained to Tesco Mobile.
It said that hed paid a bill in December 2019 which had reduced the amount due from him 
and the figures that hed been given were correct at the times that they were provided to 
him. Mr N was then given a porting authorisation code and he moved his phone to a different 
network. Mr N still wasnt satisfied with the explanation that hed been given so he said that 
he was cancelling his direct debit and complaining to this service.
He was sent a notification of an overdue payment later in January 2020 but he didnt make 
the required payment and adverse information was recorded on his credit file. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. She said that Tesco 
Mobile hadnt provided Mr N with a detailed breakdown of the calculations and a sufficient 
explanation for how the figure was achieved so hed lost faith in it, the relationship broke 
down, his account fell into arrears and a default was registered against him. 
She said that none of that wouldve happened had Tesco Mobile communicated more clearly 
with Mr N and she recommended that it should: amend Mr Ns credit file to remove the 
default and arrears markers; contact Mr N to provide a reasonable timeframe for him to 
repay the outstanding balance; and pay him £100 compensation. 
Tesco Mobile has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
Mr N was provided with the correct information on each contact with Tesco Mobile and that 
he chose to cancel in the knowledge of the early termination charge. It says that Mr N didnt 
maintain payments and the account has correctly followed its collections process. 
Mr N was told by Tesco Mobile in December 2020 that the outstanding balance on his 
account was £176.09 and that the account had been sold to a debt recovery company. Mr N 
has also been contacted by the debt recovery company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr N wanted to terminate his credit agreement early and he asked for an early 
termination figure in December 2019 - the early termination figure that he was given 
was £160;
he contacted Tesco Mobile later that month and was given a settlement figure of 
£119.95 so he queried that figure and was told that it was because a payment 
collected from him in December 2019 had reduced the early termination figure from 
£160 to £119.95  but Tesco Mobile didnt explain to him why hed been charged 
£40.05 in December 2019 (and its account notes refer to a charge of £49);
our investigator asked Tesco Mobile to provide more information to show why the 
settlement figure was reduced from £160 to £119.95 but it didnt provide her with a 
sufficient explanation for the difference;
I consider that it was reasonable for Mr N to ask for a proper explanation of why the 
settlement figure had been reduced from £160 to £119.95 and I dont consider that 
Tesco Mobile provided him with an adequate explanation - and Ive not seen 
evidence to show that the correct charge to Mr N in December 2019 was £40.05;
Mr N had complained to Tesco Mobile and when his complaint wasnt upheld he said 
that he was complaining to this service  I consider that Mr N was prepared to pay an 
early termination charge but wanted to ensure that he was paying the correct amount 
 and the explanation that he was given by Tesco Mobile didnt give him the 
assurance that he reasonably wanted;
Mr N cancelled his direct debit and didnt pay the early termination charge so Tesco 
Mobile recorded adverse information on his credit file  I consider that Mr N shouldnt 
have cancelled his direct debit but I understand the frustration that he was feeling 
and his reasons for doing so;
if Tesco Mobile had provided Mr N with a proper explanation of the early termination 
charge, I consider it to be more likely than not that he would have paid the charge 
and the other consequences would have been avoided;
I consider that the adverse information that Tesco Mobile has recorded on Mr Ns 
credit file isnt a true and accurate record of his account and I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances for it to remove that information from his 
credit file;
I consider that Mr N should pay an early termination charge and Tesco Mobile says 
that the early termination charge of £119.95 is correct - I consider that it would now 
be fair and reasonable for Mr N to pay that amount to Tesco Mobile  and, I consider 
that it should take any actions necessary to give effect to this decision including, for 
example, buying the account back from the debt recovery company and reducing the 
outstanding balance on the account to £119.95;
I find that Tesco Mobile should contact Mr N about the payment and, if hes unable to 
make the payment, it should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with 
him for that amount (its required to respond to any financial difficulties that Mr N is 
experiencing positively and sympathetically); and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr N and hes 
described the impact that theyve had on him  I sympathise with him for the issues 
that hes experienced and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco Mobile 
to pay him £100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Mobile to take 
the actions described above and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and I order Tesco Mobile Limited to:
1. Remove any adverse information about the credit agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ns credit file.
2. Take any actions required to reduce the outstanding balance of Mr Ns account to 
£119.95 and then contact him about the payment - if hes unable to make the 
payment, it should try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement with him for 
that amount.
3. Pay £100 to Mr N to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman