DRN-2241005
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Ms L says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold to her with a credit card.
 
What happened
I can see Ms L has already been paid back some money. This relates to part of the 
commission element Lloyds got from selling her the PPI. However, our adjudicator has since 
assessed Ms Ls complaint about the mis-sale and said that this element of the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms L disagrees with this. She maintains the PPI was wholly mis-sold to her and that all the 
premiums should be returned. Her complaint has therefore been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt that Ms L is being anything other than 
genuine when she says she cant remember ever agreeing to this type of cover. She says 
she was completely unaware it even existed on her account until the mid-2000s.
Nevertheless, the PPI seems to have been added on to her credit card account when Ms L 
took it out in 1993, some 27 years ago. That is clearly a long time ago and I can only place 
so much emphasis on what Ms L remembers from that time.
Ive seen a copy of the postal application she filled out, but perhaps not surprisingly, its quite 
hard to read. Ms L says she cant see anything on the application form that shows she 
agreed to the PPI. But part of the form is also unreadable. Ive seen quite a few similar forms 
to this one, and I think the part we cant see would have probably shown a box about having 
PPI. Theres no dispute she was indeed sold the PPI cover, so its obviously possible she 
ticked the box. 
Of course, its also possible she didnt tick the box or otherwise ask for PPI to be added. But 
because we know it was added, I think the PPI charges would have started to appear on her 
statements quite quickly. And if shed not wanted PPI, I think Ms L would have been 
prompted to ask what these charges were for.
Ive also been sent some of her credit card statements from 2000 which describe her being 
charged for Payments Insurance - Premium. Again, my experience of having seen many 
such Lloyds cases is that the statements would always tend to show PPI charges on them 
although the description (as above) did change periodically over the years. I dont have 
access to any earlier statements, from around the mid-1990s (just after the sale) but given 
how long ago it was, that isnt unusual. However, I think Ms L would have had access to this 
type of statement information over many years and I think she would have also received 
information about the PPI such as what the policy covered.
So, although I cant say for certain that she agreed to the PPI, on balance I think its more 
likely she did, even if I accept she honestly remembers nothing about this now.
Lloyds says its unlikely it would have provided an advised sale. As this was clearly a postal 
(mail-shot) application I think thats right. Ms L most likely filled in the form herself and did so 
without any intervention from Lloyds. 
I think that Ms L was eligible for the PPI and I dont think she would have been caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see. Ive seen nothing that suggests Ms L would have 
found the monthly PPI charges unaffordable and they look to me to be broadly in line with 
similar cover I know existed around then.
From the information Ms L provided, its possible she may have had existing protection from 
sickness with her job. But this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use to her. In the 
event of a successful claim, Ms L would have been able to have her outstanding credit card 
balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These benefits were in addition to 
any other means she already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things into account, I think the policy was probably of use to her. I can see 
that Lloyds could have done a better job in explaining the PPI at the point of sale, a fact we 
are aware of with these sales and take into account. However, as Ive said, the evidence is 
more persuasive that Ms L asked for the cover - because it was added and she could see 
over many years that it was being charged for. Therefore, Ive got nothing that persuades me 
that she would have acted any differently had Lloyds application form been more detailed.
Ive given Ms Ls complaint a great deal of thought. I accept the information we have access 
to is relatively sparse. But the circumstances, in my view, suggest its more likely she filled 
out the application in her own time and ultimately agreed to the PPI cover. I therefore simply 
dont have enough evidence to say she was mis-sold the policy.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold.
I understand the commission element has already been refunded. Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to pay anything more to Ms L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman