DRN-3458191
The complaint
Ms R complains that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection with 
a breakdown insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include Green Flag, its roadside engineer and others insofar as I hold 
UKI responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
In January 2022, Ms R had Recovery Plus cover. UKI was the insurance company 
responsible for dealing with any claim. On the evening of 26 January 2022, Ms R was about 
200 miles from home with one of her car headlights not working properly. At about 21:30, 
she called for help under the policy. She later complained to UKI about its service.
By a final response dated early March 2022, UKI said it was sending feedback about the 
engineers comments; but otherwise it turned down the complaint. Ms R brought her 
complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that - as 
Ms Rs vehicle was repairable - UKI didnt have to offer an overnight stay at a hotel, but still 
made that offer. The investigator thought it unlikely that the engineer ripped the wheel arch 
lining with a knife.
Ms R disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The engineer was confused. He was trying to get back to his bed.
There were no rusty bolts or screws as they are plastic coated.
The engineer did rip the wheel arch lining.
He left the headlight standing up proud of its socket so the bonnet would not shut 
properly and left the rubberised back off.
He removed the wheel after jacking up the car as clearly he had no idea how to 
replace the bulb. 
He even unscrewed the front bumper breaking the plastic screws.
UKI shouldve arranged recovery of her vehicle to her home.
The engineer had no business to call the police and get them ringing her and coming 
out. This was a breach of data and privacy.
She drove to a restaurant. She had another roadside engineer attend the vehicle and 
he replaced the bulb and commented that the first engineer had messed it up.
She paid a company to repair the wheel arch lining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy wording included the following:
if your vehicle cant be fixed locally the same day, well take you, your passengers 
and your vehicle to a single destination of your choice, anywhere in the UK.
UKI would only do a long-distance UK recovery if it couldnt fix the vehicle the same day.
Ms R was in a difficult situation. The engineer was called out as part of his work. On balance 
I accept that the engineer couldve changed the bulb if Ms R had agreed to the risk of a 
broken screw or bolt. But instead she asked for a recovery to her home. UKI said it could 
repair her vehicle, so it wouldnt do a recovery. Keeping in mind the policy terms, I dont find 
that unfair or unreasonable.
From my reading of the policy terms, UKI didnt have to offer Ms R an overnight stay in a 
hotel. But it nevertheless made such an offer  which Ms R declined. I accept that the 
engineer was concerned about Ms Rs welfare. I dont consider that it was unfair or 
unreasonable that he contacted the police.
From the photographic evidence, I accept that there was damage to a wheel arch lining. And 
I dont doubt the sincerity of Ms Rs belief that the engineer damager her car. But the 
damage to the wheel arch lining wasnt near the headlight and Ms Rs garage didnt say a 
knife had caused the damage. So I dont find UKI responsible for damage to the car. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Ms R compensation or to do 
any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman