DRN-3332480
The complaint
Mr G and Mr G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their joint account incorrectly
and they have had poor customer service.
What happened
Mr G opened a Barclays joint bank account with his father on 24 August 2020. As Mr Gs
father has several serious health issues, then both Mr G and Mr G felt this would be the best
way to manage Mr Gs money as Mr G is his fathers sole carer.
Mr G received correspondence from Barclays which showed the account was closed on 9
September 2020, so he contacted Barclays to find out why this was. Mr G says that the
Barclays staff were unable to explain to him why the account had been closed and he spent
a substantial amount of time on the phone to Barclays, with calls on 28 September lasting 46
minutes and on 9 October one call lasted 30 minutes and another lasting 1 hour and 49
minutes, with his issue not being resolved.
Mr G made a complaint to Barclays. He wanted an explanation of why the joint account had
been closed and he wanted access to the full balance. He also said that he had asked for a
transcript of a previous call. He was told he would receive this by email, but he didnt receive
the transcript from Barclays.
Barclays upheld the complaint. They explained that following a completion of an internal
review that took place on the account, an immediate closure notice was issued, causing the
account to close and a letter to be issued informing Mr G of this. Barclays confirmed that this
action was taken incorrectly, adding the account should never have been closed.
Barclays said that once it had been established that the account shouldnt have been closed,
they began the process to reopen the account. While they quoted Mr G that it would take
roughly five working days for this to happen, there were further technical delays which
delayed the account reopening. Barclays confirmed that none of these issues were a result
of an error from Mr G or Mr G.
Barclays said that Mr G was told incorrect information regarding the call transcript being sent
to him, and they explained they werent able to email him this, which they apologised for.
Barclays explained that Mr G and Mr Gs account was now reopened and the funds had
been transferred back to their account. Barclays said that due to the incorrect closure of the
account, the misinformation provided regarding transcripts, the delay in reopening the
account and the overall inconvenience that Mr G and Mr G had suffered from this then they
would credit £700 to the account by the way of an apology. Barclays did this on 26
November 2020.
Mr G and Mr G were not happy with the outcome of their complaint and brought their
complaint to this service. Mr G said that his father had blamed him for the lack of
communication and progress in the matter and this caused the whole family stress. Mr G
said that Barclays should lose their banking license. Mr G said his father had to borrow
money as he was without access to these funds.
Our investigator felt the £700 compensation which Barclays credited to Mr G and Mr Gs
account was fair. He explained that our role is not to punish a business when it makes a
mistake, and we do not have the powers of a regulator when it comes to allowing businesses
to trade under a banking licence. He said that Barclays have apologised for the
inconvenience caused to Mr G and Mr G and they paid an amount in compensation which he
thought was commensurate to the level of inconvenience caused.
Mr G and Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr G said that despite
him pleading with Barclays to sort the problem out, informing them that his father was
severely vulnerable, he still had to wait over 40 minutes regularly when he rang them,
despite him asking them to add notes to the system about his fathers health issues, which
they didnt. He said he had to explain to his father that he didnt know where the money was.
Mr G said that Barclays owe their customers a duty of care and should not cause them
immense psychological distress. Mr G said his father expressed rage and despondency as
he could not understand the consequences of what happened. He believes the matter could
have been resolved very quickly.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Mr G have made a number of points to both Barclays and this service and Ive
considered and read everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role
as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of the complaint in deciding whats
fair and reasonable here.
I dont think theres any doubt that Barclays have let Mr G and Mr G down with multiple
service failings here as Im sure both parties will agree. Barclays have admitted that they
shouldnt have closed down Mr G and Mr Gs account and they gave Mr G misinformation
about how to request a transcript of a call. Then, when Barclays tried to reopen the account,
there were technical issues which delayed things further. Mr G has also detailed the
experience of the long phone calls and asking the call handlers to leave notes regarding his
fathers vulnerable status. So Im persuaded all of these factors would have caused distress
for both Mr G and Mr G.
So Ive thought about what Mr G and Mr G have said they want to happen as a result of their
complaint. Theyve said that Barclays should lose their banking license if they cant treat
vulnerable people fairly and reasonably. But as our investigator explained to Mr G and Mr G,
our role is not to punish a business when it makes a mistake, and we do not have the
powers of a regulator when it comes to allowing businesses to trade under a banking
licence. So in order to see if Barclays compensation is reasonable, Ive considered what
happened here.
Ive listened to the initial phone call which Mr G had with Barclays. On the call he says that
he found out the account was closed by a statement he received. This will have been very
confusing for Mr G as he says the statement showed the money going into the account and
then the account was closed. He also asks what the reference is on his statement on the
money out transaction. At this point, Mr G will have been inconvenienced by having to ring
up Barclays and find out whats happened to the money.
From when Mr G initially spoke to Barclays on 28 September 2020, it was nearly two monthsbefore Mr G and Mr Gs money was returned to them. I appreciate that Barclays wouldnt be
able to make the money available to Mr G and Mr G before their investigation had concluded
 in case the account had been correctly closed down. But when Barclays had concluded
their investigation on 2 November 2020, it was still over three weeks before the money was
returned to the account.
While this was due to a technical issue, Im persuaded that this would have had an impact
on Mr G and Mr G as they were without the money in the account for a longer period than
they were told. Mr G says that his father had to borrow money as the account had been
closed, but as his statements dont show the money he borrowed being withdrawn from the
account shortly after the funds were reinstated then it doesnt appear to have had a big
impact. However, this still would be an inconvenience for Mr G.
From Barclays system notes, I can see that when discussing the complaint with Mr G on 9
October, that Mr G told Barclays that due to his father being very vulnerable at this time, Mr
G was too worried to mention to him that he thought Barclays had taken his life savings as
he didnt need to distress him. So Im not persuaded that Mr Gs father knew of what had
happened from the start. But I dont dispute what Mr G has told this service about the impact
this had on him and his family as Mr G could have found out about this at a later point. Even
if Mr Gs father had only found out shortly before the account was reopened, then Im
persuaded that given his age, his vulnerable status and his health issues at the time that this
would have been distressing for him.
Then Ive thought about the amount of time Mr G has spent on the phone to Barclays trying
to resolve the matter. Ive taken into account Mr Gs personal circumstances at the time this
was happening, as Barclays should have done as he had told them about it. I wont go into
his personal situation here, but I can assure Mr G I have read everything hes said about
this.
So being on the phone for prolonged periods of time would only add to the distress of his
personal circumstances. While there would always be time spent in bringing a complaint, Mr
G had been placed on hold for prolonged periods of time and some of the call handlers dont
appear to have added the notes onto the system that he had asked them to about his
fathers vulnerable status. Im persuaded that this would have added to the time that Mr G
spent on the phone with Barclays on future calls.
Mr G was then told misinformation regarding transcripts of his calls. So while Mr G would
have been waiting for an email containing a transcript and not receiving one, this would have
also added to the distress of the incorrect closure of the account.
So, what I would have expected Barclays to do here is to apologise, recognise the impact all
of these errors would have had on Mr G and Mr G and pay them reasonable compensation.
Im persuaded that Barclays did that here. Due to the multiple service failings Ive listed
above, Barclays have apologised for these. And they stressed in their final response letter
that none of these errors were due to anything Mr G and Mr G had done. They also
explained that a technical error delayed the reopening of the account.
So although Mr G feels this should have been a quick matter to resolve, Im persuaded that
an investigation would always take time to complete and the technical issue unfortunately
delayed things further. But I can assure Mr G and Mr G that Barclays were working to try and
reactivate the account during the delay as Ive seen the internal messages between staff
trying to resolve this issue promptly. Barclays credited £700 to their reopened account by
way of an apology for what happened.
Im persuaded that the £700 reflects the impact that the mistakes had on Mr G and Mr Geven considering the vulnerable status of Mr G, the personal circumstances of Mr G and
what Mr G says about the issues within the family that this caused. I know Mr G feels
strongly that Barclays should be punished further. But in terms of what Barclays have paid
Mr G and Mr G, this would be typically more than I would have been able to award them if
Barclays had not upheld their complaint. So I do think the amount offered is fair. So it follows
that I dont intend to ask Barclays to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr G and Mr G did not respond to my provisional decision. Barclays had no further 
comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman