DRN-3327103
The complaint
Mr B complains about the handling of his claim by Ageas Insurance limited under his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in full 
here. Ive summarised the main events below:
Mr B has a home insurance policy which is underwritten by Ageas.
In April 2021 Mr B made a claim for escape of water. Ageas say it told him his policy 
would cover him for tracing the leak and any subsequent work needed to repair the 
damage caused by the leak, but the policy didnt cover him for repairing the leak 
itself. 
Mr B instructed his own contractors to carry out the repair. Once the leak was fixed 
Mr Bs contractors provided a quote to repair the damage caused to his property, 
which was accepted by Ageas. 
In May 2021 Mr B contacted Ageas to raise concerns about his contractors and 
asked Ageas to appoint a loss adjuster and take over the repair work for the damage 
to his property. 
The loss adjusters said they were unable to take over the repair work as it had 
already been started. Mr B wasnt happy so complained to Ageas. 
Ageas considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that this was a dispute 
between Mr B and his contractor, and it wasnt able to get involved with this.
Mr B remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. He says Ageas had 
dissuaded him from using its contractors and Ageas hadnt dealt with the complaint in 
line with its policy terms which set out that in severe cases it would appoint a loss 
adjuster. 
Our investigator didnt think Ageas acted unreasonably. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr B told us that he was dissuaded from using Ageass contractors. He says had he not 
been discouraged he wouldnt have needed to undertake so much of the work to arrange for 
the repair. Ive thought about this, but I dont agree. 
I have listened to the calls Mr B had with Ageas and I cant say that he was dissuaded at any 
point. Ageas, as I would expect, did set out the timeframes it would take to arrange for its 
building network team to be instructed. But Mr B was understandably keen to get the work 
started, especially considering the damage was caused by faulty toilet pipework.
I note Ageas mentioned it could cover any cost of having the damage cleaned up so it 
wouldnt be unhygienic while he waited for the repairs to be approved. Ageas also said there 
was a possibility of providing alternative accommodation if needed, but Mr B said he would 
be able to avoid using the area for a short period while the claim was processed and 
indicated he wanted to go ahead with his contractor .   
Ageas also wrote to Mr B explaining that he could use its building network contractors but  
Mr B explained he was worried about the time it may take to have everything approved so 
preferred to use his own contractors, whom he said he had used before.
Mr B provided a quotation from his contractors and Ageas approved it and agreed to make 
the cash settlement. The terms of the policy say:
How your claim will be settled
We will settle your claim by either:
Replacing, repairing or rebuilding items (depending on which will be most cost 
effective), or
Paying you their cash equivalent, based on what it would cost us to replace 
the item(s).
We will decide which option is most appropriate.
Ageas paid out a cash settlement in line with these terms, so I dont think it acted unfairly 
when deciding to settle the claim in this way. It also said if there were any further problems 
which may come to light later with the damage it could consider this in future. So overall I 
dont think Mr B was dissuaded by Ageas from using its contractors. 
Mr B says Ageas should have sent out a loss adjuster, however I cant see the policy terms 
relating to an escape of water claim saying it is required to do so. I can see the information 
about more severe situations is mentioned on Ageass website but its ultimately for Ageas to 
decide what evidence it wanted to accept to process the claim. And as Ive mentioned 
above, Mr B provided a quote for the work from his contractor which Ageas didnt dispute so 
I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably in settling the claim directly with Mr B without the 
need to appoint a loss adjuster.
I note in May 2021 Mr B contacted Ageas again to ask that it take over the work for the 
repair as his contractors were taking too long. Ageas contacted its loss adjuster but they 
declined to take over the work as Mr Bs contractor had already started the repairs. I dont 
think this was unreasonable as work had already commenced, and its likely Ageas couldnt 
provide any guarantees for the work already done by Mr Bs contractors.  
Ive also considered if there were any undue delays in settling Mr Bs claim, but I cant say 
there were. Ageas settled the initial part of the claim within a couple of weeks of Mr B reporting the damage. Ageas also made additional payments as part of the claim in a timely 
manner so overall I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably here either. 
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think Ageas has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the way it settled the claim. So Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman