DRN-2708020
The complaint
Miss U complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as MINI Financial Services (MFS).   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss U acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss U. This was a new 
car when supplied and I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults at 
that point.
As MFS have stressed, the relevant legislation does explain if the fault occurs outside of the 
first six months we are to assume it wasnt present at the point of supply, when MFS were 
responsible for its quality, unless the consumer can demonstrate otherwise. It was six years 
before Miss U had problems with this car, but I think she has provided information that 
demonstrates there was a fault with it from the beginning. Miss U commissioned a report 
from the dealership and that report explained that there was a defective oil cooler on the 
vehicle which caused the engine failure. It seems that oil cooler had been defective from the 
start as I can see the manufacturer has made offers to try to resolve the matter for Miss U. 
So, Im persuaded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
And, even if Im wrong about the car having a fault from inception, the relevant legislation 
explains that when we consider whether a car has proven to be of satisfactory quality we 
should consider whether it has proven to be suitably durable. I dont think a reasonable 
person would consider a car to be suitably durable if it failed so catastrophically after only 
about 30,000 miles, even if this was after six years. So, I think thats another reason that the 
car isnt of satisfactory quality and MFS should therefore take some action to put things right 
for Miss U.  
Putting things right
Miss U has already had the car repaired and I think the fairest solution would be for MFS to 
refund the cost of that repair less anything that may have already been refunded to Miss U 
by the dealership. They should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Miss U has been 
deprived of that money.
Miss U had to commission a report to demonstrate the fault was present at the point of 
supply. So, I think it would be fair for MFS to refund the cost of that too and again, as      
Miss U has been deprived of the money. MFS should add 8% simple interest to the refund.
Miss U couldnt use the car whilst it was being repaired between 30 September 2020 and 18 
December 2020 so MFS should provide a refund of finance instalments for this period and 
add interest as Miss U has been deprived of the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
refund the cost of repairs which have been evidenced as £4,200 and £762.18 less 
anything the dealership may have already refunded. Add 8% simple interest to this 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the £1,000 Miss U paid for the diagnostic report and add 8% simple interest to 
this refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
provide a refund of finance instalments for the period 30 September 2020 to 18 
December 2020 when the car was being repaired. Add 8% simple interest to this 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman