DRN-3203907
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been charging it for an 
overdraft facility that it didnt agree to or need. 
What happened
The director of B says he received a letter in October 2019 about an overdraft facility on the 
company account. This stated that B may be charged fees and he discovered that an 
overdraft had been marked since 2012. B has been charged fees for this and he wants all of 
these to be refunded. He says that B didnt agree this.
Barclays responded to Bs complaint and said it wouldnt be refunding fees. It provided a 
copy of the facility letter. Barclays said it didnt have a signed version now, but the facility 
wouldnt have been applied without that especially as it needed a personal guarantee from 
the director. It said that B was sent a pre notification of the actual charges and those applied 
were shown on the statements.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said that Barclays 
had shown it was sending annual renewal letters from 2017 about the overdraft and the fees. 
Details of the charges were pre notified each month. And Barclays had shown it had written 
to B on 6 November 2012 confirming the overdraft facility following Barclays approval. All the 
information had been sent to the correct address for B. He thought B reasonably knew about 
the overdraft and actual fees and that the wording in the letter that Barclays may apply a 
fee wasnt wrong as the fees were set out. 
But he said that B had raised a query about this in November 2019 which Barclays hadnt 
responded to until the final response letter of 28 October 2020. And so, he said that all such 
fees from November 2019 should be refunded as it was clear that B had then said it didnt 
want the overdraft.
Barclays agreed to refund those fees. B didnt agree this was sufficient. The director said 
that all fees back to 2012 should be refunded. B didnt request or sign up for the overdraft. It 
shouldnt have been charged if it didnt want or use the facility. It hadnt received the letters. 
And its accountant would have seen the statements and would have assumed the charges 
were authorised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate having looked at the bank statements for B since 2016 that it didnt have need 
for an overdraft and had cash balances in the account. And that the director is unhappy to be 
charged for something he insists B didnt want or need.
Having looked at the information available I find it most unlikely that Barclays would have 
issued and established a facility on the account if that was something that B didnt want and 
agree to in 2012. This was the year as I understand it that B was incorporated. 
I dont think Barclays would necessarily have cause to think that B didnt want the overdraft 
any longer only because it wasnt using it. Barclays has shown it was being reviewed 
internally. And it had been writing to B. Im unable to resolve why B didnt get letters about 
the renewal of the facility in 2017 and 2018 which seem to have been correctly sent. But I 
understand B received the letter in 2019 which led to the complaint. These letters set out 
that there may be fees as B says but then the fees that were payable monthly. These fees 
were pre notified in monthly charging and then applied to the bank account and shown on 
statements. In my view Barclays could reasonably think that B had been notified. It was a 
matter between B and any professional advisor as to how the charges were reviewed and 
assessed.
B did raise the issue with fees and the overdraft in November 2019 as our investigator says. 
And I consider that from this point it had expressed concern about them in the way that it 
was asked to do in the renewal letter. I think that should have led to the fees then being 
stopped. So, I agree with our investigator that its reasonable for the fees after that to be 
refunded. I understand that the facility was removed from the account in 2020 after the final 
response.
I appreciate that the director of B will be disappointed with my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
refund the overdraft fees that B paid from the start of November 2019 onwards.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman