DRN-3459447
The complaint
Mr O complains about the advice given by AMG Wealth Solutions LLP to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Os employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
At the time the BSPS scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr O had 10 years and 
7 months of pensionable service with his employer which gave him a total (index linked) 
pension of £5,605 per year (forecast to be £10,089.09 per year at age 65). After the DB 
scheme closed to new accruals in March 2017, Mr O joined his employers Defined 
Contribution (DC) scheme. 
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr O was unsure about what to do so his financial adviser referred him to AMG (a pension 
transfer specialist) for advice about his DB scheme benefits. AMG completed a fact-find, an 
attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire and a pension transfer questionnaire on 31 October 
2017 in order to gather information about Mr Os circumstances and objectives. About a 
month prior to the meeting Mr O had received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
from the DB scheme of £119,890.48 valid for 3 months until 11 December 2017. Mr Os 
circumstances at the time were noted by AMG as follows:
He was aged 41, unmarried with one dependent child aged 5.
He was employed as an engineer earning £42,000 per year including bonuses. 
Mr O had total (unspecified) outgoings of £1,000 per month.
His house was valued at £120,000 with an outstanding mortgage of an 
undocumented amount which had 10 years to run and was costing £320 per month in 
repayments. 
He had £40,000 saved for emergencies. He had no other savings or investments. 
He was recorded as being a member of his employers DC scheme, making 
contributions of 6% of his gross salary per month with his employer contributing 10% 
of his gross salary per month. 
He had death in service cover from his employer of four times his salary.
His preferred retirement age was 60 and he estimated he would need £600 per 
month to live on in retirement. 
He would like to try a different career at some point, maybe as a pest controller, 
because his job was physically demanding. He was thinking about accessing his 
pension at 55 so he could consider changing his job. 
He wanted to take control of his pension away from his employer as he had concerns 
over its financial stability and wanted to break tiles with it by moving his pension to an 
individual plan under his control. 
He didnt want to risk his benefits being transferred to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF) as he had no confidence in it or the BSPS2. 
He liked the idea of flexible death benefits and being able to leave his remaining 
pension fund to his son as he had little life insurance cover and his son could benefit 
from the extra money.
He wanted the flexibility at retirement to control how his benefits are paid.
As his mortgage would be repaid before retirement he had no specific need for any 
tax-free cash (TFC) but wanted the flexibility to decide how to take his benefits  he 
did not want the options offered by the PPF.
He considered the stock market to be at a high and overvalued so he wanted to 
consider investing in a more cautious fund until the market changed. 
AMG assessed Mr Os ATR, as high medium, or a risk level of 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. It 
also assessed that Mr O had a limited capacity for loss before his standard of living became 
affected.
A transfer value analysis report (TVAS) was produced on 31 October 2017 which set out the 
amount of investment growth (known as the critical yield) the transferred funds needed to 
attain to be able to match the benefits being given up in the BSPS. It said Mr Os pension 
would need to achieve growth of 7.5% each year to match his full scheme income at age 65. 
It also stated that Mr Os pension would need to grow by 5.3% for the benefits he could 
access in the PPF to match those he was giving up in the DB scheme at age 65. On the 
same date Mr O accepted the recommendation and signed the transfer forms.
On 8 November 2017 AMG provided Mr O with its suitability report and advised him to 
transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider 
(L) in a cautious fund. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation to 
Mr O were, in summary: 
That he no longer had confidence in his employer so he preferred it didnt have 
control of his pension. 
He wanted to take advantage of pension freedoms with regard to income flexibility in 
retirement in how and when he accessed his funds and with regard to death benefits. 
He wanted to ensure he maximised his full use of his fund be that in retirement or 
upon his death.
He wanted to leave any unused fund to his son and didnt want the pension scheme 
to keep his money if something happened to him. He preferred a lump sum was 
made available to his son rather than him receive a dependents pension. 
He needed an income of £7,200 per year in retirement (in todays terms) which was 
achievable through a combination of this personal pension, his new employers DC 
scheme and his state pension. 
He wanted to be able to access TFC once he reached the age of 57 but was unlikely 
to need the full TFC in one go so it could be used in a tax efficient way towards his 
income. 
AMG tried to arrange a meeting with Mr O on 10 November 2017 to discuss the contents of 
the suitability report but Mr O said he was too busy. He asked AMG to submit the forms to L 
anyway as he didnt want his CETV to expire. AMG posted the forms the same day. AMG managed to arrange a meeting with Mr O in February 2018 to go through the suitability 
report taking with it a further updated TVAS is had more recently produced. Mr O confirmed 
at the meeting that he understood the report and remained happy to proceed. 
The transfer took effect in early March 2018. AMG were remunerated with an initial advice 
fee of £2,397.80. After the pension was set up it was returned to Mr Os financial adviser for 
management. 
In March 2019 Mr Os personal pension was valued at £116,623.04.
In December 2020, Mr Os representative complained to AMG that the advice hed been 
given to transfer out of his DB scheme had been unsuitable and that the transfer shouldnt 
have been recommended in his circumstances as they were at the time. 
AMG looked into Mr Os complaint but didnt agree that it should be upheld. AMG said that 
the transfer was suitable for Mr O and that it took reasonable steps to satisfy itself that it was 
suitable having regard to his personal and financial circumstances at the time. More 
specifically it said that the CETV Mr O had received from his DB scheme was due to expire 
on 11 December 2017 which was sometime before the consultation for the BSPS2 closed so 
it could not have advised him to transfer to BSPS2 at this point. It said Mr Os options at this 
point in time were to remain in the scheme (and later transfer to BSPS2 if it came into 
existence, or transfer to the PPF if it did not) or accepting the CETV and transferring to a 
personal pension. It said that he did not, at that time, have the option of transferring to 
BSPS2.
Unhappy with the outcome of AMGs investigation, Mr O complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Os complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He said he 
thought the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr O because it wasnt financially viable in that it was 
evident from the growth rate identified that he would attain significantly lower benefits at 
retirement than had been available under the BSPS. He also thought that there were no 
other compelling reasons which meant the transfer could be said to be suitable for Mr O in 
the circumstances. 
Our Investigator recommended that AMG should compensate Mr O for the losses he 
incurred by transferring his DB pension and that compensation should be based on him 
having opted to join the BSPS2. 
Mr Os representative replied to say that he accepted our Investigators findings. 
AMG responded to say it disagreed with our Investigators findings which, it said, were unfair 
and unreasonable. It said that it took reasonable steps to ensure that the advice it gave Mr O 
was suitable, as it was required to by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), in view of 
Mr Os circumstances and objectives at the time. It made the following comments: 
It said the key issue for this service to decide was whether it had taken reasonable 
steps (pursuant to COBS 9.2.1R) to ensure its recommendation was suitable for 
Mr O. It said this service should consider whether it had exercised reasonable skill 
and care when advising Mr O, whether it had discharged its regulatory obligations 
and whether Mr O had been able to make a fully informed decision. 
That our Investigator had placed disproportionate weight on the critical yield and the 
discount rate. It said that whilst the critical yield was a material factor, it wasnt the 
only factor. And it said it was based on the assumption that the client would be 
acquiring an annuity which Mr O wouldnt. The critical yield doesnt provide a 
comparison between the scheme benefits and the benefits Mr O wished to secure. 
Insufficient regard was had to the other factors that Mr O said were important to him.It is flawed to think that the option to transfer to BSPS2 existed at the time of the 
advice. There was a high amount of concern from scheme members about being 
transferred to the PPF. This wasnt something Mr O wanted to happen to him at the 
time. 
Our Investigator failed to place enough significance on the fact that Mr O had made a 
fully informed decision to transfer. And he had failed to consider if the transfer had 
proceeded owing to any failure on AMGs part to exercise reasonable skill and care.
Our Investigator failed to address the issue of factual causation  i.e. whether any 
alleged shortcoming in its advice had caused the transfer. Even had AMG advised 
Mr O differently he would have proceeded with the transfer anyway because he 
wanted to sever the tie between his employer and his pension and he didnt want to 
end up in the PPF. 
There can be no doubt that Mr O was fully engaged with the advisory process and 
made a fully informed decision to transfer having been comprehensively advised.
That Mr O, having made a fully informed decision to transfer was now having second 
thoughts about his decision to proceed. 
Our Investigator considered what AMG had said in response to his view but wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind about Mr Os complaint. AMG remained unhappy with our 
Investigators view. It said that it was common theme for this service to determine complaints 
of this nature by viewing the preferences expressed clearly by the client at the time of the 
advice as largely immaterial. It also said that it had considered the value of the benefits Mr O 
was giving up. It said it remained the case that there was still no evidence that Mr O would 
have remained in the scheme had he been advised to do so given his desire to transfer. 
Our Investigator thought that AMG hadnt made any new points so the complaint was 
referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AMGs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AMG should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Os best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
AMG carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) at the end of 
October 2017 showing how much Mr Os pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). This analysis was 
based on his existing BSPS scheme benefits, but Mr O didnt have the option to remain in 
the BSPS; he either needed to opt into BSPS2 or move with the existing BSPS scheme to 
the PPF. 
AMG has argued that at the time it was advising Mr O, the BSPS2 scheme was merely the 
subject of consultation. It also said that Mr O had no entitlement to join it or to transfer any of 
his DB scheme benefits into it. And it said that on the date the CETV expired it was still 
unknown whether the BSPS2 would come into existence. AMG has also submitted that there 
was never any prospect of Mr O expressing a preference to join the BSPS2 due to the 
antipathy he had towards his employer. It says the advice it is now said it should have 
provided to Mr O was that he taken the risk of his benefits ending up in the PPF and not 
transferred. 
Whilst it wasnt completely certain that the BSPS2 would go ahead, the restructuring of the 
BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time Mr O took advice, and 
hed also received his Time to Choose document, so the details of the scheme wouldve 
been known by the time he first met with AMG. So, I think AMG should have advised Mr O to 
wait and see if the BSPS2 was confirmed so that he could make a fully informed choice 
about what action was in his best interests.
Ive considered AMGs point about Mr Os CETV expiring in mid-December 2017 before the 
scheme trustees could confirm the funding requirements of the BSPS2 had been met. But I 
dont think this point is relevant  Mr O had to opt into the BSPS2 before the deadline of 
22 December 2017, which was also before the scheme would be confirmed as proceeding. 
So, he wouldve always needed to choose to join the BSPS2 knowing that it might not go 
ahead. Nor do I think that the expiry of the CETV shouldve been a barrier to AMG providing 
Mr O with suitable advice, which I think would involve it considering all of his options before 
advising him to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of the scheme. 
And whilst the CETV was indeed to expire on 11 December 2017, it was always possible to 
pay for a new CETV. So I dont agree that AMG couldnt have advised Mr O to opt into the 
BSPS2. 
According to the fact-find and the suitability report Mr O wanted to retire from British Steel 
early, possibly at age 60. Mr O estimated he would need a monthly income in retirement of 
£600. However, that doesnt appear to have been anything more than a best guess, given 
he was only 41 at the time of the advice and would likely continue working for around 
another 20 years.The TVAS dated 31 October 2017 set out the relevant critical yield; at age 65 it was 7.5% if 
he took a full pension. The second TVAS AMG produced set out a critical yield of 6.94% if 
Mr O took a full pension. Given that one of the objectives Mr O had, and one of the 
advantages of the transfer AMG cited, was to take 25% TFC flexibly it is notable that AMG 
didnt calculate the critical yield required for such a scenario. 
The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 5.3% if Mr O 
took a full pension at age 65. The critical yield in the second TVAS AMG produced was 
5.03% if Mr O took a full pension at 65 or 4.76% if he took a pension commencement lump 
sum and a reduced pension. But Ive said above, Mr O remaining in his existing DB scheme 
wasnt an option. So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits should also have 
been provided by AMG. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely 
decreased the critical yields somewhat but, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than 
those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. 
I also note that AMG didnt provide the relevant critical yields should Mr O decide to retire at 
age 60. I think it should have, given Mr O indicated that he may wish to do so and so that he 
was able to make an informed decision. Given that the transferred funds would be invested 
for less time and would be required to pay for benefits for a longer period, I think the critical 
yields wouldve been higher than those at 65 if Mr O retired at age 60.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.6% per year for 23 years to retirement (age 
65) and 4.4% for 18 years to retirement (age 60). For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Os 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. AMG says it assessed that Mr O was likely to 
be a high medium risk investor given he had around 23 years before he expected to retire, 
so he had the capacity to build pension funds in between and tolerate some losses. 
However, Im unable to agree with AMGs assessment of Mr Os ATR. There is nothing in 
the fact-find to support the conclusion that Mr O was an individual whose ATR was bordering 
on aggressive (or level 6 on a scale of 1 to 10). I would expect someone whose ATR is 
assessed at a level 6 to be able to display some evidence of previous investment 
experience. However, Mr O is recorded as having no investment plans. He has £40,000 but 
it is documented as being for an emergency. That being the case, and with Mr O having no 
investment plans, it is reasonable to assume they must be held in an accessible savings 
account. 
The ATR questionnaire shows that Mr O said he had some experience of investing in cash-
based savings and stocks and shares but there are no details about the nature of these 
transactions. There was nothing in his current profile that, in my view, could lead to the 
conclusion that Mr O, someone with such previous (albeit unquantified) experience, should 
reasonably be classified as someone with a high medium ATR. And Ive seen the risk questionnaire and note that Mr O said he took low financial risks and 
did not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty. And, in any event, it seems that on a later 
assessment, AMG classified Mr Os ATR as between 4 and 6 on a scale of 1 to 10. Indeed, 
his transferred pension was invested in a cautious fund (a low/medium fund) so I think Mr 
Os ATR, given his personal circumstances at the time, should more reasonably have been 
assessed as low/medium/moderate. 
I dont think that the length of time Mr O had to go to retirement means his capacity for loss 
was significant. I can see that Mr O had £40,000 in savings at the time of the advice and that 
he had 10 years left to run on his mortgage. It cant be assumed that just because Mr O had 
20+ years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by transferring his DB 
scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the scheme (if he 
remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. 
There would be little point in Mr O giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Here, the 
lowest critical yield was 4.76%, which was based on Mr O taking a reduced pension and a 
PCLS through the PPF at age 65. The critical yield if Mr O took a full pension (no critical 
yield having been produced for a reduced pension and TFC) through his existing scheme at 
age 65 was 7.5%. So, if Mr O were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at age 
65 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 
7.5%.
Given the discount rate of 4.6% the regulators middle projection rate of 5%, a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Os ATR and his investment in a low/medium risk fund, I think Mr O was 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those of the PPF and BSPS2 if he 
transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And 
I am confident had AMG informed Mr O of the true value and benefits of BSPS2 and the 
PPF, and then advised him to remain in the BSPS, he would have accepted this and he 
would have opted to join the BSPS2.
AMG says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this alone, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Os attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
I note that the second TVAS analyses the hurdle rate (the rate of return required to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme assuming no spouses pension and no index linking). The hurdle rate to 
age 65 was 3.81%. So only the hurdle rate (and one of the critical yields I mentioned above 
 but only just) are below the discount rate I have referred to above. But only by using a 
method of comparison that didnt match the guaranteed benefits in Mr Os BSPS, could it be 
argued that the DB scheme transfer was financially viable. But of course, both the index 
linking and spouses pension are very valuable benefits so I dont accept the hurdle rate to 
his normal retirement date (NRD) at age 65 demonstrates that the transfer was suitable and 
in Mr Os best interests. I appreciate that Mr O told AMG that he didnt intend to marry and so the spouses pension 
was of no use to him but he also had a dependents pension included in his DB scheme 
which would have been of benefit to his young son had anything happened to him. 
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Os benefits were reduced as a 
result, I think he would have still been very unlikely to match, let alone exceed, those 
benefits by transferring to a personal pension. And that was particularly the case if Mr O 
retired early. By transferring his pension I think it was highly likely that Mr O would be 
financially worse off in retirement. 
Given Mr O was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as AMG has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Os best interests, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that AMG recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr O. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr O needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement. 
It's evident that Mr O could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take TFC and a reduced annual pension, Mr O had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr O had any concrete need to take TFC and defer 
taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind this seems more 
of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
Furthermore, AMGs advice ignores the retirement funds that Mr O would be building up over 
the next 20+ years, through his employers DC scheme or any other future employment. The 
fact-find says that the combined contributions of Mr O and his employer into his DC scheme 
amounted to 16% of his gross annual income. So it is reasonable to assume that even with 
modest investment growth over the next 20+ years, Mr O could have access to a significant 
fund by the time he retires. And Mr O could use his DC scheme if he wanted to retire early, 
without needing to access his DB scheme before his NRD (thereby avoiding any actuarial 
reduction).
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr O had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr O 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of £6,411.98 per year (along with a PCLS of £42,746.57) 
from the PPF. This was probably lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the 
BSPS2, but I dont think it wouldve been substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr O wouldve had his DC scheme to 
draw on until his state pension became payable, or until he reached his DB scheme NRD if 
he wanted to retire earlier. So, I still think Mr O couldve most likely met his needs in 
retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Furthermore, the fact-find noted that Mr O already had savings of £40,000 and that after all 
his monthly expenditure he was left with significant surplus income. It is reasonable to 
assume that Mr Os disposable income could be put towards building his savings pot further. 
And his mortgage was due to be paid off by the time Mr O was aged 51 meaning he would 
have even more disposable income to put towards his savings thereafter. So potentially, by the time he wanted to retire, Mr O could have had a substantial savings pot to access flexibly 
to top up his retirement income.
AMG says Mr O wanted a retirement income of £600 per month that was in todays terms 
however, meaning that in reality his income at retirement would need to be higher. However, 
this was some 20 years away, so I think it was too soon for Mr O to realistically know what 
income hed need in retirement. AMG says that the value of the DB scheme income at age 
65 would be around £10,089 per year. This is more than the income Mr O said he would 
need (albeit in todays terms) so I dont think this shows that it was in Mr Os best interests to 
transfer to a personal pension. 
As Ive set out above, Mr O was unlikely to obtain benefits of the same value at retirement if 
he transferred his funds to a personal pension. So he would have had even less income than 
was forecast. But I still think Mr O had a better chance of achieving his target retirement 
income of £600 per month by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were 
guaranteed and escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension 
for all of his retirement funds. The majority of the pension provisions Mr O was building up 
over the next 20 years would be subject to investment risk, so I dont think it was reasonable 
to also place his guaranteed pension funds at risk.
And I cant see that there was any known need for the TFC without having to simultaneously 
draw an income (Mr Os mortgage would be repaid some years before retirement). But if, by 
the time Mr O retired some 20+ years hence, he needed a lump sum without wanting to start 
drawing his pension at the same time there were, as Ive previously explained, other means 
available to him. And I think Mr O couldve met his income needs until his state pension 
became payable at age 67. Mr O would have likely had a significant pension to draw on 
flexibly (from his DC scheme), as and when he needed, to top up his income or take 
additional lump sums. So, I dont think Mr O would have had to sacrifice flexibility in 
retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Furthermore, Mr O was only aged 41 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen 
he didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr O had 13 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr O to give up 
his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If 
Mr O later had reason to transfer out of their DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr O could have met his income needs in retirement by maintaining the 
guaranteed income available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65 and taking 
additional funds from his DC scheme until his state pension became payable. So, I dont 
think it was in Mr Os best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that 
he didnt need. Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr O. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr O might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr O about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think AMG explored to what extent 
Mr O was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
In Mr Os circumstances as they were at the time it is arguable that the death benefits 
offered under a personal pension were more favourable than those under his DB scheme. 
He was unmarried, with one young dependent son, but there may not have been a large 
sum left, or the fund may have been depleted, if he lived a long life. Under the DB scheme 
there was also provision for a childrens pension up to age 23 if they remained in full-time 
education. I dont think AMG made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr O. This was 
guaranteed and escalated so it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the 
sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, AMG should not have 
encouraged Mr O to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his own security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr O genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his child, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think AMG 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Mr O was relatively young with a large disposable 
income so it may well have been something he would have considered and been able to 
afford. I think it is an option that AMG should have explored regardless. Significantly I cant 
see that there was any documented discussion about the fact that Mr O was now a member 
of his employers defined contribution scheme which had the potential to grow depending on 
when Mr D retired. 
And its evident that Mr O could nominate beneficiaries of his choosing under the DC 
scheme. So, hed already made provisions to ensure that the vast majority of his pension 
didnt die with him.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumer, there generally 
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr O. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr O, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr O was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was AMGs obligation to give Mr O an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice AMG gave Mr O shouldve properly and fully taken the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Os 
concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AMG shouldve 
reassured Mr O that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
The income available to Mr O through the PPF wouldve still provided him with a significant 
amount of the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to AMG recommending Mr O transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Os desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr O was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr O  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
It seems to me that Mr Os stated desire for control related more to moving his pension 
away from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to 
manage his investment. 
But it ought to have been explained that Mr Os employer and the trustees of the BSPS2 
were not one and the same. And in any event, Mr O was not intending to leave his 
employment and his DC pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out 
of the scheme didnt achieve a break from his employer. So had AMG explained that Mr Os 
belief regarding the control Mr Os employer had over his pension was misplaced, I think he 
would have been reassured by this.
Summary
Its clear that Mr O, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr O was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF and his 
employer. However, it was AMGs obligation to give Mr O an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr O through 
the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Os concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr O. But AMG 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr O might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr O needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to was Mr O suitable or in his best interests. He was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr O was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr O had a vague objective to 
retire at age 60 and take some TFC but I dont think this was a fully formed plan; it was some 
20 years away.  And I dont think AMG interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it 
didnt establish how much TFC or income Mr O would need, so it couldnt offer any real 
insight into whether Mr O couldve met this objective by moving with the scheme to the PPF 
or the new BSPS2, by using the savings already available to him or by using his DC scheme 
flexibly. So, I dont think Mr Os plans or ambitions were concrete enough for AMG to say it 
was in his best interests to give up his guaranteed benefits and transfer out of the scheme.
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the 
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr O was likely keen to transfer out as 
he was worried about his pension and colleagues were telling him this was a good idea. 
However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively weigh up the options for Mr O. He 
should have advised him what was best for his circumstances and explained what he was 
giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought. For 
the reasons given above, I dont think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable. 
Mr O was being advised by AMG after having received the Time to Choose document and 
was at the point where he had to select which option to he wanted to take. I carefully 
considered what Mr O likely would have done  had he been suitably advised by AMG  and 
on balance I think he would have opted to join the BSPS2. I say this because I dont think 
Mr Os retirement plans were fully formed. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr O wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme if 
he needed to at some point in the future. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think AMG shouldve advised 
Mr O to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr O would've gone ahead anyway, against AMG's 
advice. AMG says Mr Os needs and objectives were only met by transferring to the personal 
pension and considering he was fully aware of the benefits he was sacrificing, and bearing in 
mind the objectives he was keen to achieve, it says he would have continued with the 
transfer regardless. Put simply, AMG says that Mr O was as good as an insistent client who 
wouldve chosen to transfer even if it had advised him against it.
Im not persuaded that Mr Os concerns about his employer or the PPF were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if AMG had 
explained that Mr O was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits available to him 
by transferring, that he shouldnt be prioritising death benefits over retirement benefits, that 
the flexibility he sought could be met by other means, that the uncertainty over his 
requirements meant transferring at that time was not in interests and that the other things 
hed expressed worry about were not things he needed to be as concerned about as he was, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr O would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont think that AMG provided Mr O with all the 
necessary information he needed to make a fully informed decision. And by not fully advising 
Mr O  for example by not exploring the option of life cover with him or by not attempting to 
fully understand what his retirement income needs were  I dont think I can agree that AMG 
did take reasonable steps, or exercise reasonable skill and care, to ensure the transfer was 
suitable. For this reason, I think AMG should compensate Mr O for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And its the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 at age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes. This is 
because I know that Mr O is a very long way from retirement and has no firmly formed plans 
around when he will retire. 
I agree with our Investigator that Mr O will have been caused some distress and 
inconvenience by AMGs unsuitable advice so I think that AMG should pay him 
compensation of £300 in recognition of any trouble and upset it has caused him. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance. 
Weve previously asked Mr O whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance /rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for any 
new guidance.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr O. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr O, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for AMGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would 
have most likely opted into the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given.
AMG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Mr O is a long way from retirement. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Os acceptance of the decision.
AMG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Os 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Os SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Os pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr O as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr O within 90 days of the date AMG receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AMG to pay Mr O.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect AMG to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
AMG should also pay Mr O compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience its 
unsuitable advice caused him. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr O any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require AMG 
Wealth Solutions LLP to pay Mr O any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
AMG Wealth Solutions LLP pays Mr O the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr O.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on AMG Wealth Solutions 
LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman