DRN-2023805
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax), relates to Halifaxs 
automated system rejecting his attempt to deposit a cheque by his mobile app. Mr W has 
also complained about the service he received when he made his complaint.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr W and Halifax, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr W tried to use his mobile app to deposit a cheque for £6.99. Halifaxs image clearing 
system rejected the transaction as the image of the cheque was not clear. When Mr W tried 
a second time the system rejected it again as it detected it to be a duplicate transaction. 
Halifax advised Mr W to take the cheque to a branch. Mr W feels that when dealing with his 
complaint Halifax should have agreed to use email, but they refused.
Halifax didnt think they had done anything wrong and explained to Mr W how their system 
operated. Mr W was unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint, and having done so, concluded that Halifax hadnt done anything wrong and had 
dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive 
done here. In this case, I dont think that Halifax has done anything wrong and Ill explain 
why.
At the outset I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would 
need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based 
approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Halifax followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
Mr W has agreed that Halifaxs automated system might have struggled with the cheque he 
was trying to deposit. He thus recognises the inherent difficulty an automated system might 
face with reading cheques. His complaint is that his cheque could have been easily read by 
a human, or otherwise dealt with, and if it had, it would have negated him attending a 
branch. Unfortunately, I do not have the power to tell a business how it should operate, as I 
have explained above. I do take the point that a human may well have had better success 
than Mr W, but I cannot see it is reasonable nor proportionate, given no doubt the vast 
number of cheques Halifax will likely receive daily through its mobile app, to have staff in 
place to deal with problems such as this. To ask a customer to go into a branch I also think 
is reasonable, and although inconvenient, that doesnt make it unreasonable. However, this 
is Halifaxs business process and not one I can interfere with, and I cant say Mr W has been 
treated unfairly.
Mr W has also made complaint about Halifaxs complaints system, in that they refused to 
engage with him by email. I do empathise with him regarding his experience as email is a 
much quicker and more efficient method of communication than the post. Having said that, 
this element of complaint is not one I can look into. Im afraid that the rules which govern 
what I can and cant look into say that I can only look at what are known as regulated 
activities, and unfortunately complaint handling is not one of those activities. As such Im not 
able to tell Halifax how it should deal with complaints, nor can I make any order or award in 
respect of this, as our service doesnt regulate the banking industry. That is the role of the 
FCA.
So, although Mr W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Halifax has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman