DRN-3681100
The complaint
Miss S complained because Capital One (Europe) plc didnt agree that someone else had 
fraudulently opened a credit card in her name.
What happened
On 28 January 2022, an application was made online for a Capital One credit card in Miss 
Ss name. The details entered on the form included her date of birth, address, phone 
number, and bank account details. The account was opened with a credit limit of £1,000.
On 5 February, Miss S rang Capital One to ask to change the phone number on the account. 
She provided the adviser with the postcode on the account, and said how long shed lived at 
the address. She didnt give the right security answer to a question about her employment, 
but said she did several jobs so she might have put something else. The Capital One adviser 
changed the phone number as requested.
By the time the first monthly statement was issued on 28 February, the account balance was 
£1,043.02, which was above the £1,000 credit limit. The statement asked Miss S to bring the 
balance back to the credit limit, and said the card couldnt be used again until this had 
happened. It confirmed the minimum payment would be taken from Miss Ss bank account 
on 23 March. This direct debit payment from Miss Ss bank account did credit the account on 
23 March, but because of the interest the balance remained above the credit limit.
Two days earlier on 21 March, Miss S had phoned Capital One. She said shed had an email 
from Capital One about the account, but shed never opened the account. 
On 22 March, Capital One replied to Miss S. It didnt accept her claim of fraud. It said this 
was based on information from Miss S, credit reference agencies and fraud databases, 
together with phone calls and correspondence. Capital One said it had decided to withdraw 
Miss Ss credit card. It gave her two months' notice, and said her account was now blocked 
and she couldnt use it. Capital One told Miss S that shed need to continue to make 
payments to her account until the balance has been cleared, to avoid any negative impact 
on her credit file. 
Miss S obtained a crime reference number which she sent to Capital One, with copies of her 
bank statements which she said showed she hadnt been anywhere near where some of the 
transactions had taken place. 
In Capital Ones final response letter on 27 April, it said that in its email of 22 March it had 
told her that it didnt accept her claim that the account had been fraudulently opened. And it 
had also listened to the call on 5 February, when Miss S had phoned and provided a new 
mobile number. Capital One pointed out that during that call, Miss S hadnt mentioned any 
concerns about not having applied for the account. Its decision remained the same. 
Capital One also pointed out that Miss S hadnt made the April payment. More default fees, 
and further interest, could be charged if she didnt make any more payments. There would 
then be a default notice and a default on her credit file. It provided contact details if she was 
struggling financially.
Miss S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said she hadnt opened the 
account, and had only ever made one call to Capital One when shed reported the identity 
theft. But a man she knew from college had been at her home and must have obtained her 
details because he went into the room where she kept her security details. She said he must 
have changed the phone number on the 5 February call. Miss S also sent video maps which 
she said showed she hadnt been at the locations where transactions had taken place.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. She said it was more likely than not that 
Miss S had authorise the account.
Miss S wasnt satisfied. She said the location information shed provided proved it wasnt 
her. She also said she hadnt ever asked to change the number on the account. She asked 
why shed set up the account then claim fraud. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
At Miss Ss request, the investigator sent her call recordings supplied by Capital One.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in early 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and 
the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So Ive considered whether its more likely 
than not that Miss S authorised the opening of the account and the transactions on the card.
Ive listened to the calls including the important call on 5 February. Its clearly the same 
person on that call, as on the 21 March call in which Miss S reported the account as 
fraudulently opened. The voice is female, which means it couldnt have been the man who 
Miss S said was in her home and whom she said she suspected of carrying out the fraud.
And on that 5 February call, Miss S didnt say that she hadnt opened the account. I cant 
see any reason why Miss S wouldnt have done so at the first opportunity, if she genuinely 
hadnt opened the account. But she didnt claim this until 21 March.
Looking at the application itself, Miss Ss date of birth, address, and bank account were all 
correct.  She confirmed the first two when she rang on 5 February, and her bank account 
was used for the minimum payment on 23 March. Even if a third party fraudster had 
obtained her date of birth and address, I dont think its likely any fraudster would have been 
concerned about setting up bank payments. 
The evidence also shows that Miss Ss email address was correct. She told Capital One that 
shed received an email which was how she knew about the account. And she also used that 
on 30 March to provide the crime number. Miss S hasnt provided any explanation for how 
any third party fraudster might have obtained all her personal details, other than saying that 
she thought it was a man who came to her home  which it couldnt have been, as Ive 
explained above.Miss S relies on electronic video evidence which shes sent in, which she says proves that 
she didnt make the transactions, saying shes never been to some of the locations at which 
transactions took place. I dont find this definitive. But in any case, the Payment Services 
Regulations say that if Miss S allowed someone else to use her account and security details, 
that counts as Miss S authorising the transactions. 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that its more likely than not that Miss S 
applied for the credit card herself, and authorised the transactions on it. So I dont uphold her 
complaint. This means that Miss S remains liable for the balance on the account, and Capital 
One isnt required to write it off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman