DRN-3474652
The complaint
Mr G complains that eToro (UK) Ltd prevented him from closing an open position he had on 
a particular share when he wanted to. When he eventually managed to close it, he made a 
smaller profit than he would have but for eToros mistake. 
What happened
Mr G opened a buy position (trade number ending in 120) in a stock Ill refer to as GS on 26 
January 2021 at 19.58. At the time, there was widespread trading in this particular stock 
which caused volatility in the market, and caused GSs share price to increase and fluctuate 
significantly. 
Mr G says that on 28 January 2021 at approximately 3pm he tried to sell his position in GS. 
He said that he was unable to. He eventually managed to close this position on 1 February 
2021 and made over £5,300 profit. However, had he been able to close his trade on 28 
January 2021, Mr G said his profit wouldve been higher. 
eToro looked into Mr Gs concerns but concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong. It 
confirmed that on 27 January 2021 it had been experiencing some technical issues on its 
platform, but it didnt identify any impact on Mr G. It said it had no record of his attempts to 
close his trade at around 3pm on 27 or 28 January. It also said on 28 January trading in GS 
had been suspended on the exchange  and this meant that it wouldnt have been possible 
for Mr G to close his position on its platform. Mr G didnt agree and referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint. He said there was no evidence of Mr G 
attempting to close his trade and being unsuccessful. The investigator said that trading in 
GS was halted on 28 January 2021 at just after 3pm, and he concluded that this was most 
likely the reason why Mr G had been unable to close his trade. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that eToro had already admitted that it was 
experiencing technical issues at the time, and he said that the suspension of trading in GS 
didnt happen at the time he was trying to close his position. He also reiterated his concern 
at eToro removing the option to open new buy positions in GS at the time  suggesting that 
eToro did this in order to affect GSs share price. 
The investigator carried out some further enquiries:
eToros technical issues occurred on 27 January 2021, not on 28 January. It told the 
investigator that there was no evidence of Mr G attempting to close this trade on 
27 January, nor that his trading was impacted by the technical issues. It said the only 
impact it had identified was a login error at around 5pm, but Mr G was able to login to 
his account a few seconds later. 
eToro confirmed that trading in GS was suspended on the New York Stock exchange 
a number of times between 27 and 28 January 2021. 
eToro said that Mr G amended his take profit on this trade 12 times between 26 and 
31 January 2021, and confirmed there was no evidence of Mr G attempting to close 
the trade before he did so on 1 February 2021. 
As a result, the investigator concluded on balance that eToros technical issues did not 
prevent Mr G from closing his trade. The investigator concluded that it was likely Mr G had 
been stopped from closing his trade at around 3pm on 28 January 2021 because trading had 
been suspended on the stock exchange  and this wasnt something that eToro had any 
control over or was responsible for. He also said that the terms of his account with eToro 
meant that it was entitled to suspend a market and it wasnt uncommon for brokers to 
prevent new positions being opened in markets with significant volatility or where wider 
issues were affecting liquidity or the ability to carry out trades in the underlying market. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already told Mr G. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to him, but Im also not persuaded his recollection is detailed enough or 
clear enough that it ought to outweigh the absence of any other evidence that he attempted 
to trade on 27 or 28 January 2021 and was prevented from doing so by an error from eToro. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account a number of facts:
He did not raise a concern about this trade at the time. The first mention of the issues 
he was experiencing came in an electronic message to eToro in May 2021. 
He did not close his position until 1 February 2021  four days later. Theres no 
evidence that he experienced any technical issues after 27 January 2021. 
eToro has provided evidence of Mr Gs logins and changes he made to his trade. It 
has not identified any evidence of an incorrectly executed trade.
In general, complaints about the execution of trades need to be raised as quickly as possible 
in order to ensure matters are put right in what is usually a fast moving and changing 
investment environment. In addition, whilst brokers must ensure their platforms operate 
correctly, technical issues and difficulties can occur. When this happens, Id also expect to 
see a consumer using all methods at their disposal to contact the firm  including trading via 
telephone if that is possible. In this case, its clear that Mr G did not make such attempts. 
And I think its unlikely that Mr G would wait four months to raise a complaint about being 
prevented from closing a trade that he thought would generate over £15,000 in profit. 
I say this bearing in mind that eToros status update webpage clearly describes the 
technical issues it was experiencing, so Mr G wouldve known at the time about these issues 
 he didnt need to wait to raise his concern. 
Furthermore, the evidence Ive seen from eToro indicates that Mr G was in fact amending 
his order until 1 February by changing the take profit level. This suggests to me that Mr G 
was not experiencing technical difficulties at the time and, subject to any suspensions on the stock exchange, could have closed his trade before 1 February 2021 if he wanted to  and 
probably wouldve received the same, or nearly the same, price as 28 January. 
Taking all this into account, whilst I accept that Mr Gs recollection is that he was prevented 
from trading, Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mr G placed a sell order 
on eToros website which wasnt executed. As a result, I dont agree there was a failure in 
eToros best execution obligations, nor that it caused Mr G a loss for which he should be 
compensated. If he did place an order which wasnt executed, the likely explanation is that 
trading in GS shares was suspended at the same time  and theres nothing eToro couldve 
done about that.   
Finally, Mr G has raised an issue about eToro preventing new positions being opened in GS 
at the time. Ive seen insufficient evidence about this. But in any event, I dont agree this is 
relevant to Mr Gs complaint because its clear that he was able to trade GS, and did so 
multiple times. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman