DRN-2364044
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that TSB Bank plc didnt do more to help him when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr L was contacted by a fraudster who purported to be a representative of his 
bank; TSB. The fraudster convinced him that his account had been compromised and that 
another account had been set up in his name to keep his money safe; commonly referred to 
as a safe account scam. 
Mr L, on the instruction of the fraudster, then transferred £2,500 to the account details 
provided by the fraudster on 5 April 2019. The following day, Mr L says that he realised hed 
been scammed and reported the fraud to TSB. 
TSB looked into Mr Ls claim and attempted to recover the transferred funds from the 
beneficiary account. But it said that the funds had been removed from the account before it 
could recover them. TSB also didnt think it should be held liable for the payment as Mr L 
authorised this and confirmed that the transaction was genuine by authenticating it using a 
one-time passcode.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response, so he made a complaint. He said that he genuinely 
thought he was speaking with a representative of the bank and questioned why TSB would 
allow such a large transaction to go through without his confirmation. He was also unhappy 
that the bank failed to help him once he made it aware of the fraud and that he hadnt 
received a response to his complaint. Mr L also made reference to a notice on its website 
after the fraud took place saying that it refunds fraudulent transactions.
TSB responded to Mr Ls complaint partially upholding it. It said that The Fraud Guarantee 
Scheme he referred to in his complaint was launched on 14 April 2019 and didnt apply to 
losses that occurred prior to this date. It said that it was unable to dispute the decision made 
by its fraud department to decline the fraud claim. Whilst it had no evidence that Mr L had 
complained to the bank previously, it acknowledged the distress and inconvenience this 
caused and paid £25 in compensation.
Mr L wasnt happy with the banks response, so he referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator looked into the argument presented by both sides and concluded that the 
complaint should be upheld. His view was that the transaction was sufficiently out of 
characterin terms of the accounts usual activityto have caused the bank to intervene in 
the payment that was being made and question it. He felt, had this been done, that the fraud 
would have been prevented and therefore the bank should be held liable.
TSB disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It said that Mr L regularly made faster 
payments and provided some examples where hed transferred large sums from his account. 
It added that Mr L made the payment from a device and internet protocol (IP) address 
previously used on the account and therefore there was no concern regarding the payment.
It commented on the BSI code referred to in the Investigators assessment whereby 
businesses are expected to detect suspicious activity by taking into account a number of risk 
indicators. But it didnt agree that on this occasion TSB failed in its obligation to detect the 
payment. It argued that its required to strike a balance between allowing a customer to 
transact on their account without unnecessary hinderance and in line with the customers 
instruction. It felt that tipping this balance too conservatively causes detriment to its 
customers attempting to make legitimate, and sometimes critical, payments.
As TSB disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute in the circumstances of this complaint that Mr L authorised the scam 
payment of £2,500. The fraudsters had deceived Mr L over the phone that they were calling 
from his bank and that his account was at risk. The fraudsters then instructed him to transfer 
funds to a safe account that had been opened by TSB in his name.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr L made the transfer as part of 
a high-pressure scam. He admits to logging into his online banking using his security 
credentials and it has been shown that he received an additional security call which required 
him to input a code to authenticate the payment. So, although Mr L didnt intend for the 
money to go to fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr L is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should have fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr L made a one-off transfer to a new payee for 
£2,500. This also nearly cleared the balance of the account leaving him with just £35.58.
TSB did carry out an additional security check on the payment by contacting Mr L and 
requesting that he entered a code. But he wasnt questioned regarding the purpose or the 
validity of the payment. Nor was he made aware of any risks regarding current fraud and 
scams in this additional security call. So Ive gone on to consider whether TSB ought fairly 
and reasonably to have made additional checks and challenged the purpose of the payment 
before processing it.TSB have argued that the payment wasnt so unusual or out of character that it shouldve 
questioned it further. Its pointed out that Mr L was familiar with the faster payments system 
and had made a substantial number of these prior to the payment subject to this complaint; 
and to new payees. It has also provided a number of examples where Mr L has made larger 
payments out of his account, suggesting that these types of payments werent uncommon 
when considering his previous account activity. But having reviewed these submissions, Im 
persuaded the payment Mr L made to the fraudster was out of character enough to give TSB 
some concern that he might be at risk of financial harm.
This is because while Mr L did frequently make faster payments out of his account, the vast 
majority of these were for relatively small amounts. TSB has specifically pointed out a 
number of previous transactions that support its submission:
£12,000 on 14 August 2017
£1,000 on 16 August 2017
£1,154.70 on 30 May 2018
£1,000 on 17 October 2018
£500 on 19 March 2019
Four of the five payments listed above are for less than half the amount Mr L transferred as 
a result of the fraud. In addition to this, some of them are to payees he appears to have paid 
before from looking at his account statements and one appears to be a debit card payment 
rather than a transfer. Ive also considered the £12,000 payment as this is clearly substantial 
and out of character. But this was made almost twenty months prior to the payment subject 
to this complaint. I think this adds weight to the argument that Mr L didnt make such 
substantial payments frequently.
TSB has also previously referenced payments similar to the ones above, but for the reasons 
Ive already stated, these dont persuade me that the payment wasnt out of the ordinary due 
to the amount and age of some of these examples.
But importantly, I can also see that none of the transactions referred to by TSB cleared, or 
almost cleared, the balance of the account. This is an important feature in this case as its 
recognised that the clearing or virtual clearing of an account can indicate a customer is at 
risk of financial harm  in particular that they might be at risk of the particular scam Mr L fell 
victim to. This is something I think TSB ought to have been concerned about when Mr L 
attempted to make the payment.
TSB has argued that its measures strike a balance between fulfilling its obligation to allow its 
customers to transact on their account without hinderance and questioning the legitimacy of 
payments; and I appreciate the complexities of this balance. But when considering the 
combination of the above factors, I do think this payment was unusual in terms of Mr Ls 
normal account activity and did fit the behaviour of a common fraud method. So Im 
persuaded that in the circumstances of this complaint, TSB should have intervened in the 
payment and questioned its legitimacy.
Had TSB done so, its likely the fraud and loss of funds would have been prevented. Mr L 
was told by the fraudster that they were a representative of the bank. They informed him that 
his funds were at risk and that an account had been set up to keep his money safe. Had 
TSB questioned Mr L regarding the payment, Im persuaded that its more likely than not he 
would have revealed these facts to the genuine representative of the bank as Im satisfied 
Mr L wasnt given a cover story by the fraudsters. In these circumstances TSB would have 
realised Mr L had been targeted by a fraudster and Mr Ls loss wouldve been prevented.In light of my conclusions above, its not necessary in this case to consider whether the bank 
also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds before they 
were removed by the beneficiary. But for thoroughness, I can see that the beneficiary 
account was also held with TSB. Having checked the account, TSB have told our service 
that the funds were removed immediately following transfer. And when considering Mr L 
didnt contact TSB until the day after the transaction, Im satisfied that it would have been 
unable to recuperate the funds.
Ive also considered whether Mr L should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, its clear that Mr L was victim of a high-pressure fraud that made him 
believe his money was at risk of being stolen. He was also persuaded by the behaviour and 
conversation with the fraudster that they were a legitimate representative of the bank. The 
fraudster knew personal information about him, and hes said that the fraudster spoke to him 
in a similar way to his previous experiences with genuine TSB representatives. He also 
attempted to call the fraudster back and was presented with an answer machine that 
suggested he was calling TSB. The combination of these high-pressure tactics and the 
fraudsters persuasiveness satisfy me that Mr L was simply an unwitting victim of an 
experienced fraudster. Ive also considered TSBs submission that these types or frauds are 
well publicised in the media and on its website. But I dont think it fair to assume that all 
consumers actively look for or have seen these publications, and I remain persuaded that 
TSB ought to have intervened and protected Mr L from losing the money he did to the 
fraudster. Overall, Im satisfied that there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. 
Mr L hasnt contested the £25 payment made in compensation for the delays in investigating 
his complaint. So I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
In the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that TSB should reimburse Mr L for the 
loss he suffered together with 8% simple annual interest to compensate for being deprived of 
the money lost.
Mr L hasnt indicated any specific impact as a result of the loss of funds, and Ive attempted 
to contact Mr L to clarify this point with no response. I must also consider that the loss was 
primarily caused by the callous act of the fraudster and that the transaction was authorised 
by Mr L. Although TSB could have prevented the payment in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded Mr L has experienced material distress and inconvenience that 
warrants a monetary award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to:
Pay Mr L £2,500 within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision
Pay 8% simple annual interest on the above amount from the date of the loss to the 
date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman