DRN-3133451
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Elderbridge Limited (EL) relates to the suppression of 
interest on their loan account and the subsequent reporting to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRA). Mr and Mrs T feel that EL has illegally tampered with their credit file, since 
it shows they went from being in arrears in 2016 to being up to date.
What happened
In 2016 EL purchased a loan book from Barclays which included Mr and Mrs Ts loan. In 
March 2021 EL reduced Mr and Mrs Ts loan balance by applying a credit of £15,255.08. EL 
explained that the reason it did this was because interest had been incorrectly charged to 
their account since 1 December 2018. This they termed as a suppression of interest. As a 
result, the account balance reduced as did the arrears on the account.
EL explained that it reports arrears an account up to a maximum of the equivalent of six 
months contractual monthly instalments (CMI), and that was what it had done with Mr and 
Mrs Ts account, since the arrears were at that level. 
EL also confirmed that at the end of each month it reports to the CRAs the balance on the 
account and the level of arrears. However, it does not report any payments missed or any 
payments made. 
EL accepted that the when Mr and Mrs Ts account balance was reduced, this would then 
reflect on their credit file. But, it also confirmed that it had not reported that Mr and Mrs T had 
made payments to their account, rather only that there had been a reduction in the balance 
due to the suppression of interest. 
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with ELs final response believing that it was illegal for EL to 
have tampered with their credit file, and so approached this service to see if we could assist 
in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought that EL hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It does not appear to be disputed by Mr and Mrs T that in 2016 their loan account was in 
arrears. It is also not disputed that a large credit was applied to the account in March 2021 
and that was in respect of interest suppression.
The starting point to this complaint must therefore be the decision to suppress the interest. 
The interest suppression was backdated to 1 December 2018. 
EL took this decision on its own accord. In other words, this wasnt as a result of being asked 
to by Mr and Mrs T or being told to do it by a regulator. This means their decision is classed 
as a commercial or business decision. Its not our role to recommend how financial 
businesses should conduct or arrange their commercial operations and processes  thats 
for them to determine and we dont have the power to interfere with such decisions. 
What I can say of course is that in removing all the interest from 1 December 2018 that has 
only benefited Mr and Mrs T. It has clearly been to their advantage since the amount they 
owe is less than it was. It is difficult to see therefore how that decision can be said to have 
been unfair to Mr and Mrs T. So, I find nothing wrong in EL deciding to suppress the interest.
Once the loan account balance was reduced to take the interest suppression into account, 
EL were then required to report the factual position to the CRAs, and this is what they did. 
That was the correct thing to do. 
I know Mr and Mrs T feel that EL have reported that they made payments to their account, 
but very clearly they didnt. I have seen no evidence that EL misreported the facts to the 
CRAs by stating Mr and Mrs T hade made payments to the account, rather the evidence is 
that they reported the reduced balance and the simple fact of Mr and Mrs T being the 
equivalent of six or more months in arrears. 
Our investigator speculated that the CRAs may have chosen to interpret the data it received 
from EL in a particular way, and that may be right. The CRAs may well have concluded that 
the loan balance went down because of payments received to the account from Mr and Mrs 
T. However, I shall not speculate on this point because I dont need to. In the context of this 
complaint I am only concerned with what EL have or have not done, and I am satisfied that it 
has correctly reported to the CRAs and there is no evidence of any tampering or other illegal 
activity Mr and Mrs T fear.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman