DRN-3274993
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as M has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
provided incorrect information when it called to discuss business interruption insurance. M 
has also complained that it was mis-sold professional indemnity insurance. 
Mr N, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf. 
What happened
M held a business protection policy with Hiscox. M called Hiscox on 4 March 2020 as it was 
concerned about possible losses resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic. M said its 
employees worked at a number of different premises and it wanted to be covered if its 
employees were unable to work due to the closure of those premises. 
Hiscox said they didnt offer this type of cover as their business interruption insurance would 
only cover M if it was unable to use its own premises. While they were discussing this, 
Hiscox asked if they could carry out a health check to ensure all the information they held 
was up to date. After identifying that M didnt have professional indemnity insurance Hiscox 
offered M a quote for cover which it agreed to take out following a further phone call on 13 
March.  
M complained to Hiscox after being impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response 
to the pandemic. M thought it would have been able to successfully claim for losses caused 
by Covid-19 if it hadnt been misled by Hiscox. 
Hiscox said they had correctly informed M that they didnt offer the cover he required and 
had provided details of brokers who might be able to help. Hiscox said, in regard to the 
professional indemnity insurance, they had provided M with the relevant information to 
decide if the cover was suitable. So, they didnt think they had mis-sold the cover. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, M brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think 
Hiscox had provided misleading information about its business interruption insurance cover 
or mis-sold the professional indemnity cover. 
M asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ms business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call between M and Hiscox on 4 March. M asked whether it either already 
had, or could buy, cover that would cover a claim for its employees if they were unable to 
work due to closures caused by Covid-19. Hiscox said their business interruption cover 
didnt cover the circumstances M was concerned about, as their policies would only provide 
cover if there was material damage or Ms own premises was closed. Hiscox gave M details 
of brokers who might be able to help it find the cover it wanted.
While Hiscox policies have provided cover for some business interruption insurance claims 
due to Covid-19, I dont think Hiscox provided misleading information when they said the 
policy wouldnt provide the cover M wanted, given the circumstances hed explained he 
wanted cover for. I think Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably in providing M with details of 
brokers to support him in finding cover elsewhere. 
Professional indemnity insurance
While M was on the phone with Hiscox, on 4 March, Hiscoxs agent asked if they could carry 
out a health check to ensure all the information they held was up to date. Hiscox said M 
didnt have professional indemnity cover on its policy and M said it thought it already had it. 
Hiscox said they could provide a quote for the cover and agreed with M that they would call 
back the following day. 
Ive listened to a further call between M and Hiscox on 13 March. Hiscox let M know that 
they couldnt provide any advice and would just provide information. As M didnt have 
professional indemnity cover it asked M to go through the cover available. Hiscox provided 
some information and asked if M was happy to take out the cover based on the limited 
information they had provided. M said it was and agreed to buy the additional cover. 
When selling insurance Hiscox has a duty to provide information in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading to enable M to decide if the policy is suitable. Having listened to the calls, 
I think Hiscox provided M with clear, fair and not misleading information. It follows that I dont 
think they mis-sold M professional indemnity insurance. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome M was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman