DRN-4346226
The complaint
Ms D complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, refused to refund her for 
gambling transactions which she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
In July 2023, Ms D contacted Halifax. She said that she hadnt authorised any of the many 
gambling transactions on her account, going back to 2019. Ms D wanted a refund.
Halifax provided some temporary refunds while it investigated with the gambling companies 
and tried to get a refund for Ms D. 
On 15 August, Halifax sent Ms D its final response to her complaint. It explained that the 
gambling companies had provided evidence showing that the payments hadnt been 
completed fraudulently. It said this meant that Ms D wasnt entitled to the temporary refunds 
it had provided. But Ms D had closed her Halifax account before the bank could re-debit the 
temporary credits. 
Halifax said that as it couldnt re-debit Ms Ds account, it wouldnt purse her for the refunds 
to which she wasnt entitled.  But it said that it wouldnt refund any of the other gambling 
transactions which Ms D had said she hadnt made. Halifax pointed out that Ms D accessed 
internet banking regularly, so shed have seen these disputed payments then, but hadnt 
disputed them at the time. Halifax didnt accept that these transactions had been made by 
any unknown third party fraudster whod obtained Ms Ds debit card details.
Ms D wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She said that someone had set up 
gambling accounts in her name and had taken money out of her Halifax account for that. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. He said Halifax had done nothing wrong in 
allowing the payments to be processed, and he couldnt reasonably expect Halifax to refund 
Ms D. 
Ms D didnt agree. She said it was someone else, not she, who had made the disputed 
transactions. She agreed that shed logged onto her online banking, but said that had just 
been to check her balance, and not to check what was going in and out. She said shed only 
found out when she wanted to order something from a shop, and her card had been 
declined, and she didnt know how much had been taken or when.
Ms D asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, and the relevant regulations here 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the 
customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise 
them. So Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Ms D authorised the gambling 
transactions herself.
Ive seen the information provided to Halifax by the gambling companies. This information 
matches Ms Ds personal details. Ms D said that someone else had set up the gambling 
accounts in her name and had taken money out of her Halifax account. But she hasnt 
explained how she thinks this can have happened. She hadnt reported her card lost or 
stolen, and Ive seen nothing to indicate that she told Halifax, or this service, how her 
personal information might have been obtained by a third party.
And the transactions took place over a long period, with some of them four years before Ms 
D reported them. Under the Payment Services Regulations, a customer must tell the 
payment service provider (here, Halifax) about any dispute without undue delay, and in any 
event no later than 13 months after the debit date. So Halifax doesnt have to consider any 
of the transactions which Ms D reported more than 13 months after they took place.
But Ms Ds delay in reporting the disputed transactions also makes her version less 
convincing. Ive seen the record of her online banking log-ons.  And Im not persuaded by 
her argument that she only logged on to see her balance, and didnt notice any of the 
disputed transactions. Even if shed initially logged on to see her balance, I think the number 
and amount of the transactions would have been immediately apparent. This is especially 
because the account balance was generally low, so the transactions would have been more 
obvious.
Ive also seen that the IP address, a unique computer identifier, for transactions was the 
same as one which Ms D used most frequently for undisputed transactions.
Also, some gambling winnings were paid into Ms Ds account by the gambling companies. I 
cant see why any third party fraudster would have arranged for winnings to have been paid 
into Ms Ds account rather than their own.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its more likely than not that Ms D carried out 
the disputed transactions herself. So Halifax doesnt have to refund her.
Finally, Ms D said that when she spoke to the complaints manager at Halifax, he said that 
she didnt have to pay back the money which it refunded for some of the disputed 
transactions. She said that if Halifax thought shed made the payments, why didnt it say she 
had to pay the money back. 
But this argument doesnt persuade me that it was a fraudster and not Ms D who made the 
payments. Nor does it mean that Halifax believed theyd been made by a fraudster. Ms D 
had closed her account while there was still a temporary credit for some of the disputed 
payments, so it wasnt straightforward for Halifax to reclaim the money to which Ms D wasnt 
entitled. Halifax was entitled to take a business decision about whether or not to pursue Ms 
D for the money she owed it. Ms D was fortunate that Halifax decided not to pursue this 
money, but Halifaxs decision doesnt alter the outcome of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman