DRN-2529881
The complaint
Miss S says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2006.  
A TMPP is a type of insurance protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical 
illness cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the 
consumer wishes.
Miss S says she has no recollection of agreeing to the policy.
 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Miss S with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the TMPP was mis-sold. She disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ss complaint.
I certainly dont doubt Miss S genuinely believes now that the cover was mis-sold so I 
started by thinking carefully about whether she ever agreed to take the PPI part of the 
policy out. Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system and other documents 
which, in my view, show that mortgage protection was discussed. 
This doesnt marry-up with Miss Ss recollection, but I also note that as well as mortgage 
protection, Miss S took out a life policy and CIC as part of the same overall product. I 
therefore think shed have known that all these types of insurance werent compulsory, and 
I think theres a strong suggestion here that she wanted certain forms of protection with her 
new mortgage. The TMPP rolled up all these elements into a single product, so on balance, 
I think its much more likely that she knew she had a choice about the PPI cover and that 
she agreed to buy the policy. I accept that after such a long time she might not remember, 
or indeed agree with this, now. 
However, theres further compelling evidence that the PPI was indeed discussed and that 
she agreed to buy it. The first is that Ive seen copies of a letter Miss S was sent or given in 
July 2006 at the point of sale. This outlined all the types of insurance she was taking out 
with her new mortgage. It set out the costs and the individual elements of the TMPP she 
had accepted. I also note that in 2007 Miss S made a claim on the policy in respect of the 
accident / sickness insurance. Clearly, to have made such a claim, Miss S would have 
needed an awareness of the policy and what it was for. 
All these things represent to me, very reliable evidence that Miss S had spoken to an 
adviser about these things and had chosen various insurances because they were things 
she probably wanted to have. I therefore believe Halifax properly obtained her consent.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Miss S because Halifax recommended this 
to her as part of an advised sale. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because she seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. She may 
well already have had some sickness protection with her job. But Im afraid this doesnt 
mean the cover wasnt suitable for her. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term 
financial commitment and secured against her home. So, the consequences of not being 
able to make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, 
was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 12 months if shed needed to claim. 
Miss S cites having savings at the time. Ive seen no direct evidence of the amount quoted 
and since she was buying a house, the same demands on her financial situation apply, as 
Ive described above. Miss S also says her relatives could have helped out if shed ever got 
into financial trouble, again implying she didnt need mortgage protection. However, whilst 
relatives may indeed always wish to help out if needed, relying on this method over the 
term of a mortgage isnt a reliable alternative to insurance, in my view.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
what Ive seen in this case, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was 
present, so I think she probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss S. But to uphold this complaint Id need to think it was 
more likely she never gave her consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I simply 
dont have that evidence and I think its more likely she tailored the cover to suit her needs 
of the time.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman