DRN-3825516
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited Insurance) for the 
way it settled her claim following a fire at her home. She wants Accredited Insurance to pay 
an additional sum for her alternative accommodation. 
What happened
Mrs M insured her home with Accredited Insurance. 
In January 2022, a fire broke out at her home, causing substantial damage and rendering 
her home uninhabitable. 
She submitted a claim to Accredited Insurance and initially she and her household were 
accommodated in a hotel. 
Accredited Insurance paid an initial interim payment to assist with the hotel cost. 
Mrs M and Accredited Insurance began discussion over the work that was needed to her 
home and how much this would cost. This involved Mrs M seeking quotes for work and 
providing these to Accredited Insurance for scrutiny. 
While these discussions and assessments were ongoing, Accredited Insurance made an 
offer for settlement of the claim. It valued the damage costs at around £60,000 and offered 
this to Mrs M. Mrs M declined and made a counter proposal for settlement. 
Accredited Insurance made additional interim payments to Mrs M to support repair works 
and alternative accommodation costs, as follows:
£850 in January 2022;
£5,000 in March 2022;
£20,000 in April 2022; and
£15,000 in May 2022. 
In May 2022 Accredited Insurance, on the basis of evidence provided by Mrs M, made an 
offer to settle the claim for around £100,500. This was set out in an email which provided the 
breakdown of the costs and explained that the sum included around £13,000 for alternative 
accommodation. It detailed that this was based on the average local rent for 6 months, plus 
storage costs and initial hotel accommodation. 
Mrs M accepted the offer and the balancing payment was paid to her. 
Mrs M subsequently complained to Accredited Insurance. Accredited Insurance replied in 
June 2022 declining her complaint. It reiterated the payments that had been made and it 
maintained its decision. 
Mrs M complained to us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and did not recommend upholding the 
complaint. She considered that Accredited Insurance had acted in line with the policy terms 
and had made clear the basis of settlement, and that this included accommodation costs. 
Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how distressing this situation must have been for Mrs M. She has detailed the 
extent of the damage and the impact upon her and her family of having to be away from their 
home. 
That said, I agree with my colleagues view and do not uphold the complaint. 
My colleague set out a considered analysis of the actions taken by Accredited Insurance, the 
policy terms, and the communication from Accredited Insurance detailing the offer and I 
agree that this was reasonable and in line with the policy terms. 
The policy set a maximum limit for alternative accommodation costs of £15,000 or 6 months 
rent, whichever limit was met earlier, and the offer letter makes clear that the offer includes 
rent for 6 months. I therefore think that Accredited Insurance met its obligations in respect of 
alternative accommodation.
Mrs M indicated that she understood the email which detailed this, and she accepted the 
offer. 
Consequently, whilst I understand that this has been very difficult for Mrs M, I have not seen 
evidence that Accredited Insurance have done anything substantially wrong and I do not 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and given by my colleague in their view, I do not uphold Mrs 
Ms complaint and do not ask Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman