DRN-2036885
The complaint
Mr M complains that in October 2017 National Westminster Bank Plc agreed to remove 
adverse data from his credit file but two years later he found the entry was still there. He 
says this has had a significant financial impact on him for which hed like to be compensated.
What happened
In 2017 Mr Ms account went into an unauthorised overdraft in error. Nat West then closed 
his account without warning.
When Mr M complained, NatWest agreed it had made a mistake. It agreed to reverse its 
decision and to remove any adverse entries from his credit file in addition to paying him £100 
compensation. 
But in 2019 Mr M found that the default notice was still showing on his credit file. He says its 
had a significant impact on his credit score with the result hes had to pay more than he 
would otherwise for credit. He feels NatWest should compensate him for this but says the 
£100 already paid isnt sufficient to reflect the upset and inconvenience and the financial cost 
of whats happened.
NatWest says it took steps to remove any adverse date in 2017 as agreed so its not sure 
why the entry is still there. However its now arranged for this its credit file on Mr M to be 
updated to remove any negative information. Its also paid Mr M £100 compensation for the 
upset which it feels is fair.
Our investigator agreed that NatWest should have ensured the default notice was removed 
from Mr Ms credit file in 2017 as agreed and for that reason he felt it was reasonable for it to 
compensate Mr M for the trouble and inconvenience hed had as a result of NatWest not 
doing so at the time. Having said that it was difficult to say what impact this had had on his 
credit score as there was already a default notice on his file that would have had an impact 
too. For that reason he couldnt say that it was this entry that had downgraded his credit 
score. On that basis he considered the compensation already paid was fair so he wouldnt 
be asking NatWest to do anything more.
Mr M disagreed and said when the default notice was removed, his credit score had 
improved by 200 points which proved that it had had an effect. He asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M and NatWest both agree that the default notice put onto Mr Ms credit file in 2017 
should have been removed at the time so I wont go over that again. The question is what 
was the impact of that mistake on Mr M and whether the steps NatWest has taken to try to 
resolve this complaint are reasonable.
I should start by saying that I can only make an award for financial loss if I have information 
to show that a loss has actually been incurred. Where thats not the case then any 
compensation will be limited to the impact of the mistake, that is the inconvenience and the 
upset caused by whats happened.
Ive seen Mr M says the failure to remove this entry had had an adverse impact on his credit 
score and as a result, hes had to take out credit at a much higher rate than would otherwise 
have been the case.  Hed like to be compensated for this. 
Id agree that a default notice may affect a lenders decision on whether to offer credit and, if 
so, at on what terms. However I havent seen any information to show that Mr M would 
necessarily have been offered credit at a better rate even without this entry and thats 
because there was already a default notice on his credit file which would have had an impact 
in its own right.  I realise this isnt the answer Mr M was hoping for but on the information 
available theres nothing to show this mistake has had a direct financial impact on Mr M. On 
that basis I cant reasonably ask NatWest to compensate Mr M for this.
Having said that, Nat West should have ensured that this entry was removed in 2017. If it 
had Mr M wouldnt have had the inconvenience of raising it again now. For that reason its 
only right that NatWest compensates Mr M for his time and trouble.
Ive seen that NatWest has already paid Mr M £100 and I think that fair. While the mistake 
shouldnt have happened, once NatWest was made aware it took steps to remove it as soon 
as possible as well as offering Mr M an apology and compensation. In the circumstances I 
dont feel there was much more it could have done and I consider the amount of the award 
to be in line with what Id have awarded for a mistake of this type.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman