DRN-1386928
The complaint
Miss N complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
Miss N had a travel insurance policy with Ageas. It was purchased to cover her holiday to 
Turkey in 2019, and following that holiday Miss N made a claim on it, after £950 was stolen 
from her bag. 
Ageas declined Miss Ns claim. They said her policy didn't cover her for loss or theft unless 
shed reported it to the nearest police authority within 24 hours of discovery and had 
obtained a police report. 
Miss B complained about Ageas decision. She said shed only realised her money had been 
lost or stolen shortly before she was due to return home. She said the hotels staff 
couldn't understand English. But also that they told her not to go the police because the 
station was far away, that the police wouldn't be able to help, and that theyd keep her there 
for a long time too. Miss N also said she suffered from anxiety and was travelling with a 
friend that had children, so she didn't want to travel to a police station on her own.  
Ageas maintained their position on declining the claim though. So Miss N brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked at what happened, but they didn't think Ageas had declined Miss Ns 
claim unfairly. They said that Miss Ns policy was clear regarding claims of loss or theft 
needing to be reported to the police. And they also said that while they sympathised with 
Miss Ns situation, they couldn't hold Ageas responsible for the mis- information the hotel 
had given her. 
Consequently, our investigator didn't recommend the complaint be upheld. But Miss N 
disagreed. She said she was stressed at the time, had no money, and was also with her 
travelling companions children. Miss N also said the hotel had told her the police 
wouldn't have done anything and would make her wait for hours, so she didn't go as she 
didn't want to miss her departure to the UK.
So, as no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Ageas are required to consider claims 
promptly and fairly, and they mustn't reject them unreasonably.
Looking at Miss Ns policy, I can see it says Ageas will pay you up to the amount shown in 
the summary of cover if your own money is lost or stolen whilst being carried on your person 
or left in a locked safety deposit box (or equivalent facility).However, the policy also lists a number of different things which Ageas wont cover. One of 
those being, loss or theft unless you have reported the loss or theft to the nearest police 
authority within 24 hours of discovery and have obtained a written police report.
Miss N has set out a number of different reasons as to why she didn't report the loss or theft 
of her money to the police. Those reasons include being told by the hotel not to do so; not 
being able to make local calls on her phone or use the hotels phone; being anxious about 
travelling to the police; not having the money to travel to the police and; being of the opinion 
that the police report wouldn't have done anything. 
But having considered those reasons, while I appreciate Miss Ns position, Im not 
persuaded that Ageas acted unreasonably in declining this claim. Ill explain why.
As the policy holder, it was Miss Ns responsibility to adhere to the terms and conditions of 
her policy. Ageas weren't responsible for the information or advice that the hotel reportedly 
gave Miss N. So while I accept that Miss N has said she acted on the hotels advice, it would 
be unfair of me to hold Ageas accountable for any mis-information given by a third party. 
Miss Ns policy also contains non-local phone numbers, which she could have attempted to 
use in order to seek advice from Ageas directly. So the inability to make local calls or use the 
hotels phone isn't enough to persuade me that Miss N was unable to report the matter to the 
police entirely. Nor that she was unable to seek advice about the matter from her travel 
insurer. 
Furthermore, it isn't unusual for insurance policies to require matters pertaining to the loss or 
theft of something to be reported to the police. So notwithstanding Miss Ns opinion about 
what going to the police would or wouldn't have achieved her policy terms weren't adhered 
to in this case.
While I empathise with the anxiety Miss Ns said she suffers from, as I set out above I dont 
find it unusual for an insurance policy to require matters surrounding a loss or theft to be 
reported to the police. I accept Miss N may have felt anxious about reporting the loss or theft 
of her money to the police, but I dont think that in itself would be enough for me to conclude 
that Ageas had declined her claim unreasonably. 
Miss N wasn't on holiday by herself, and I think it reasonable to assume that she could have 
been accompanied to the police station. I appreciate that going with her travel partner may 
have been more difficult given they had children with them. But Miss N still needed to prove 
her claim. And Im not persuaded that going together would have been impossible. 
Further, as I set out above, Miss Ns policy also had phone numbers that she could have 
attempted to call in order to speak with Ageas directly. I cant see that Miss N did that. But I 
dont think it unreasonable for her to have attempted to speak with Ageas and explain her 
current situation. Thats not to say that Miss N would have no longer needed to report the 
matter to the police. But I do think that above shows theres more that Miss N could have 
done to mitigate her circumstances. 
So while I appreciate all the points Miss N has set out, in themselves, they dont persuade 
me that Ageas acted unreasonably in declining this claim in line with the policy terms. 
Ive thought about what Miss N might have done differently had she had more time before 
her departure too. But none of those reasons cited above are time specific. So even if 
Miss N did have more time before needing to leave for her departure, Im still not persuaded 
that she would have reported the matter to the police for the reasons set out. I can see that Miss N feels strongly about her position, and it will be frustrating for her to 
have had her claim declined.  But for the reasons already given above, Im not of the opinion 
that Ageas acted unreasonably in declining this claim. So Im not asking them to do anything 
further.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman