DRN-2283253
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised him to invest £7,000 in an 
unsuitably risky equity fund in 2000.
What happened
After winning £32,000 in a game show, Mr M met with an advisor with a view to investing 
some of this money for capital growth. He was advised to keep half his winnings in a high-
interest savings account and invest the other half  split roughly equally between an 
investment product which Mr M has not complained about and a five-year capital-guaranteed 
product, the subject of this complaint.
This was described as an international equity fund but in practice was a structured product 
whereby Mr Ms capital was guaranteed (if he kept the investment for five years) with 
returns/growth based on any rises in the UK FTSE and the US Dow Jones index.
Mr M surrendered his investment three months shy of the five years.
His representative, a Claims Management Company CMC, said:
Mr M had been looking for a low-medium risk investment and was told he could not 
get back less than he invested via this product
Yet just under five years later he received around £6,750 when he surrendered the 
investment, significantly less than hed have got via either a savings account or a 
typically mixed-asset low risk investment.
It was not appropriate to recommend he invest in a single-asset, single international 
fund, something which was far too risky for his circumstances and objectives
He should have been advised to invest in a spread of low risk mixed-asset funds
An investigator at this service did not feel the advice had been inappropriate and outlined 
why.
Mr Ms representative disagreed, reiterating:
Industry best practice and regulatory guidelines recommend that customers such as 
Mr M should not be advised to invest in single asset products, particularly via a single 
fund, especially via a complex structured product
This was not a suitably low to medium in risk
Mr M should have been recommended a suitable spread of mixed asset funds in 
accordance with regulatory guidelines
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
HSBC UK Bank Plcreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have firstly considered Mr Ms overall circumstances and finances to assess whether it was 
reasonable to expose half of his money to some form of investment risk - even though he did 
not complain about the other investment product or the advice to invest half of his money in 
principle.
Taking account of his regular income and recorded outgoings - and the fact that this was a 
one-off and unexpected windfall - I dont think it was unreasonable to recommend he invest 
around half of his winnings in risk-based investments  with a view to getting a better return 
than that available via normal savings products.
I do, however, think that given his lack of investment experience he should only have 
become recommended fairly low risk products and with some diversification of this amount 
of his money. I therefore think it was sensible to recommend he split the invested sum 
between several products, which is what the advisor did. As Mr M has not complained about 
the other product I have not assessed its suitability.
I agree with the CMC that Mr M should not have been advised to invest £7,000 in an 
international equity fund or a single fund, and if that was the nature of this product I would 
have upheld this complaint. But this is a very misleading description of it. 
It was a low risk product where Mr Ms capital was guaranteed as long as he retained the 
investment for five years, something the documentation made clear. So the only risk was 
that any return would be dependent on equities. But such returns were not based on a single 
equity fund nor solely on international ones. Instead, returns were based on a very broad 
range of UK and international equities as reflected in two major stock market indices.
As such, I dont believe this was an unsuitably risky recommendation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman