DRN-3636236
The complaint
Miss M complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Miss M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around January 2017, Miss M was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Miss M decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In January 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Miss Ms behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Miss M to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding within seven years;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments; and
one of the optional extras, the boiler doctor, had not been installed properly and 
makes a clanking noise whenever the central heating comes on.
The CMC also said that the salesman failed to tell Miss M that the total amount repayable 
under the loan was over £20,000. It added that she has dyscalculia, so she found it difficult 
to understand the figures in Ps quote.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Miss M or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Miss M and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
since, according to Ps quote, the system would not pay for the loan until five years 
after the loan term ended, it was clear that Miss M would not have bought it unless 
she had been lied to by Ps salesman;
that point was reinforced by the fact that Miss M had been in her late fifties and 
nearly retired, meaning that the seven-year self-funding period she was promised by 
the salesman would roughly coincide with her retirement, but she would be nearly 80 
by the time the system actually paid for itself;
the quote was a complicated document full of facts and figures;
the adjudicator had not addressed Miss Ms dyscalculia;
Miss M had told the salesman she had dyscalculia but he had ignored that;
Miss M could not have understood the quote, and so that document had no probative 
value;
if the salesman lied to her then the fact that she had the opportunity to find out that 
he was lying by referring to the quote was not a defence in law to an action for 
misrepresentation;
Miss M was the only eye-witness to what had happened in the sales meeting.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Miss M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Miss M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss M 
and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. I have seen no evidence that this is the case, and Shawbrook denies it, so 
I do not accept that commission was paid.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
Key documents, law, and dyscalculia
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities 
 that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss M says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Miss Ms testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this normally formed a central part of the sales process and the 
representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Miss M, explaining any benefits 
of the system, prior to her agreeing to enter into the contract  unless he knew at the time 
that she had dyscalculia.
I have also referred to Ps internal policy document (provided to me in confidence via 
Shawbrook), Policy and Procedures  Treating Customers Fairly. This document, on pages 
11 and 12, sets out Ps policy for dealing with vulnerable customers. It does not expressly 
refer to dyscalculia, but the policys definition of a vulnerable customer is open-ended, giving 
a non-exhaustive list of examples of who might be considered vulnerable. I think that 
someone with dyscalculia would qualify as a vulnerable customer under the policy. I accept 
that Miss M has dyscalculia, and so I think that the policy applies to her. If the salesman 
knew that, then he ought to have re-scheduled the meeting so that she could arrange to 
have a friend or relative present to help her.
I asked Shawbrook to find out if P had any record of Miss M telling its salesman that she had 
dyscalculia. P replied to say that it did not, and that its sales staff are trained to end an 
appointment if such a thing is brought to their attention. Miss M says she did tell him, but he 
paid no attention and continued with the meeting. I think that would also be consistent with P 
finding no record about her mentioning her dyscalculia in the meeting, since if the salesman 
did not follow Ps policy then he would be unlikely to have written that down. So there is no 
reason for me not to accept what Miss M has said about this.
However, I dont think that this necessarily proves that the salesman would have departed 
from his usual sales pitch. It seems to me, on balance, that the salesman would still have 
given his usual sales pitch which he was accustomed to giving  and that this would have 
been consistent with what the quote says  rather than dishonestly adapting his sales pitch 
to take advantage of one customer who was unable to fully understand the quote. Therefore 
I have still taken the quote into account  along with Miss Ms version of events  when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
I agree with the CMCs analysis of the law: if the salesman did mislead Miss M about the 
system, then it would certainly not be a defence for either P or Shawbrook to say that Miss M 
could have discovered any misrepresentations simply by having someone read the quote to 
her in her own time to find out the true position. Rather, the relevance of the quote is that 
I do not think it is likely, on the balance of probabilities, that the salesman made oral 
representations which he knew were contradicted by the quote.
Therefore, although I have not heard directly from the salesman (and he no longer works for 
P), I do not accept the CMCs submission that Miss Ms own evidence is the only evidence 
about what was said at the meeting. The quote is also circumstantial evidence about that.Total amount repayable
On balance, Im satisfied that Miss M was told that the total amount repayable was £20,913. 
This clearly appears in the loan agreement, and so its likely that the salesman would have 
told her the same thing.
FIT payments and savings
Miss M has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Miss Ms recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Miss M could expect 
to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Miss M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £168.73, which results in an average monthly income of about £14. 
Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment 
due of £116.47. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Miss M was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Miss M could expect from the system. 
The expected year one electricity savings are £231.12 and, when taking into account the 
optional extras chosen by Miss M, the combined income and savings in year one is shown 
as £606.84. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Miss M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £116.47. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £115.63, but the difference  84p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for every 
year of the loan except the last, meaning that the system would not make enough money to 
cover the loan payments until year 15.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Miss M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Miss M wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Miss Ms version of events. However, as Ive found 
that the quote routinely formed a central part of the sales process which the salesperson 
normally went through at sales meetings, and I dont think that the salesman would have 
altered his usual sales pitch in this instance, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, which plainly showed that the system would not be 
enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
However, I do accept that Miss M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time. The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would 
take 13 years for the overall benefits that Miss M could expect to receive to match the cash 
price of the system. So I think its likely that the salesman would have told her that.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year 13 the overall benefits that Miss M could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £11,000.
So Im satisfied that P told Miss M that the system would pay for its cash price in 13 years, 
as supported by the excerpts above, which are taken from the quote (and I think that the 
salesman would have told her the same). If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 112 years for the system to pay for 
itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Miss M.
Performance: energy generation and boiler doctor
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,570 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Miss Ms FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, 
has generated 2,206 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (85.9%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Miss M was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this was not the case. Shawbrook didnt have 
to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much energy 
as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. (At the same time, it may also investigate whether the 
boiler doctor was installed correctly; I currently do not have enough evidence to know if it 
was or not.) Then, if Miss M is still not satisfied, she may bring a new complaint to our 
service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that issue now, 
except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Miss Ms claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Miss Ms original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the 
effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Miss M hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Miss M could have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Miss M entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Miss M to 
enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Miss M to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman