DRN-3833234
The complaint
Mr P complains that Curtis Banks Limited delayed his request to change the investment 
manager of the assets he held in his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr P says he 
lost out on preferential returns with his new investment manager as a result.
What happened
Mr P held a SIPP with Curtis Banks. On 15 January 2020 Mr P instructed Curtis Banks to 
action a change of investment manager (COIM) from Brooks Macdonald to Brewin Dolphin. 
The instruction was to transfer Mr Ps assets in-specie so the assets would move to 
Brewin Dolphin directly, without the need to be disinvested into cash.
The last of Mr Ps assets were transferred to Brewin Dolphin on 14 May 2020. During the 
transfer Mr P complained to Curtis banks about the length of time it was taking to complete.
Curtis Banks sent Mr P their final response to his complaint in July 2020. They agreed that 
the process had taken longer than it should. They said that after receiving Mr Ps instructions 
to change investment manager on 15 January 2020 they contacted Brooks Macdonald to 
obtain a list of the assets Mr P held. It took them until 25 February 2020 to review the list and 
contact Brewin Dolphin to initiate the transfer. Curtis Banks accepted that they could have 
reviewed the list of assets sooner. And as a result, the transfer process could have been 
initiated earlier. Curtis Banks went on to say that the rest of the process was beyond their 
control as it was up to the other parties to arrange and complete the transfer of assets.
Curtis Banks offered to waive the £100 fee theyd normally charge for changing an 
investment manager. They also said they didnt know whether Brewin Dolphin made or 
intended to make changes to Mr Ps assets. So, they couldnt say that their delay caused 
Mr P any investment losses. However, they offered to consider any commentary or evidence 
from Mr P that showed hed suffered a loss due to the delay.
Mr P responded to Curtis Banks. He said that the transfer process had commenced on 
11 March 2020, but as Curtis Banks had admitted causing six weeks of delays, it could have 
started on 29 January 2020. Mr P had asked both Brooks Macdonald and Brewin Dolphin to 
evidence the returns he would have received between 29 January and 11 March.
Mr P said Brooks Macdonald confirmed his portfolio returned -12.44% during that time. He 
also said Brewin Dolphins risk category 3 (which was Mr Ps investment strategy) had 
returned -9.15% during that time. So, hed have mitigated his losses by 3.29% had he not 
been delayed. In monetary terms that meant hed lost an additional £9,428.71 from his 
portfolios value as a result of Curtis Banks delay.
Curtis Banks responded to Mr Ps calculations. They disputed that Mr Ps assets could have 
been transferred by 29 January 2020. Curtis Banks acknowledged that they caused a delay 
at the outset of the transfer request. And they could have reviewed the assets by 22 January 
2020 rather than 25 February 2020. So, using the actual timescales of the remaining transfer 
process, the final assets would have been sent to Brewin Dolphin on 17 April 2020. Brewin 
Dolphin started to rebalance Mr Ps portfolio 17 working days after the final asset was 
transferred. So notionally this rebalancing would have taken place on 13 May 2020 instead 
of 8 June 2020 as it did.
Mr P says he again approached Brooks Macdonald and Brewin Dolphin to establish the 
difference in returns between the two investment managers in the period between 13 May 
2020 and 8 June 2020. He says Brewin Dolphins risk category 3 portfolios returned 5.3% 
over that period, and Brooks Macdonald returned 1.78%. So, he asked for the 3.52% 
performance difference to be paid to him.
In a further response, Curtis Banks agreed that compensation was due for the 27-day delay. 
However, they disputed that the growth should be applied to the whole of Mr Ps portfolio, as 
after transferring, 56% of Mr Ps portfolio remained invested the same as before. Only 44% 
was rebalanced. So, Curtis Banks did their own sums, including only applying the growth 
difference on a pro-rata basis for the 27 days.
Mr P disagreed with Curtis Banks calculations. He said the returns quoted were those of the 
period in question in absolute terms, and not an average return for the year. So, the interest 
shouldnt have been applied pro-rata over the 27 days. Curtis Banks maintained that their 
calculations were correct. So, Mr P decided to bring his complaint to our service. 
Curtis Banks later said, on reflection they shouldnt have offered Mr P compensation for 
investment losses as hed decided to transfer his funds in-specie. They said if it was Mr Ps 
intention to sell his funds anyway to rebalance them he should have sold his assets to cash 
and transferred them that way, which was likely to be a quicker process.
They also said there was nothing stopping Mr P from selling assets at any point to mitigate 
his losses. And once the funds were transferred to Brewin Dolphin it took almost a month for 
the rebalancing to occur. So, they shouldnt be held accountable for that delay which might 
indicate that Mr P hadnt agreed an investment strategy with Brewin Dolphin until after the 
funds were transferred.
I sent Curtis Banks and Mr P a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint and 
explained what I thought Curtis Banks should do to put things right. Ive copied the findings 
from my provisional decision below. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
Its not disputed that Curtis Banks caused a delay in changing Mr Ps investment manager. 
So, my decision focuses on how long I think the delay was and whether that caused Mr P a 
financial loss that Curtis Banks needs to compensate him for.
How long should the transfer to Brewin Dolphin have taken?
Curtis Bankss timeline says the rebalancing of Mr Ps portfolio was potentially delayed by 27 
days. And could have happened on 13 May instead of 8 June when it did happen. But I dont 
think the dates being used are reasonable. Ill explain why.
Curtis Banks took 29 working days, between 15 January 2020 when it received Mr Ps COIM 
instruction, to them sending the required instruction to Brewin Dolphin on 25 February 2020 
to open an account. Curtis Banks, in their response letters, say this should have only taken 
five working days to process. So, a difference of 24 working days.
Im satisfied that after that point, it was the responsibility of the two investment managers to re-register and transfer the funds. So, I think the total delay Curtis Banks caused was 24 
working days.
Did the delay lead to a financial loss for Mr P?
Curtis Banks say that Mr P didnt suffer a financial loss as he transferred his holdings in 
specie meaning they werent disinvested for any time. They say it took almost a month to 
rebalance his portfolio after the transfer which they say demonstrates there was no plan in 
place before the transfer occurred. But I disagree, Ill explain why.
Three of Mr Ps holdings were sold by Brewin Dolphin on 14 and 15 May 2020, almost 
immediately after the transfer had completed. So, I asked Brewin Dolphin why the rest of the 
rebalancing hadnt occurred for another three weeks. Brewin Dolphin say there wasnt a 
delay in carrying out the rebalancing. They said there were substantial amounts of cash 
continuing to be received for months after the holdings were transferred and the rebalancing 
was on going as opposed to being a one off exercise.
Brewin Dolphin have confirmed that its likely the rebalancing would have occurred earlier if 
the funds had been transferred earlier and that the rebalancing aimed to put Mr Ps portfolio 
in a position that mirrored their Risk Category 3 benchmark (within acceptable tolerances). 
Which explains why only around 44% of Mr Ps funds were altered.
Brewin Dolphin explained that; The Investment manager would have reviewed the balance 
of assets that were transferred, considered account performance to date, current market 
conditions, the clients risk category and investment objectives. Trading is only carried out 
where it is necessary to align the portfolio to the related benchmark, the process of 
rebalancing can be carried out over a period of months depending on a number of factors.
Considering all of the evidence in this case, Im satisfied that had Mr Ps funds been 
transferred to the management of Brewin Dolphin earlier, he would have made similar, if not 
the same, changes to his portfolio 24 days earlier than he did. And Im satisfied that 
Curtis Banks were responsible for this 24-day delay.
The responses to my provisional decision
Both Curtis Banks and Mr P accepted my provisional decision and provided no further 
evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional decision.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision. That means I see no 
reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision remains 
the same.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Curtis Banks to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for their delay. This is made more difficult when market 
conditions could have altered the investments that Mr P ultimately made. So, I dont think 
this is a complaint where there is a perfect solution for putting Mr P into the position he would have been in but for Curtis Banks delays.
While Brewin Dolphin say the rebalancing wasnt a one-off exercise, I can see that there 
were large changes made to Mr Ps portfolio on 8 June 2020 which Curtis Banks have 
referred to as the rebalancing throughout this complaint. Following the rebalancing of Mr Ps 
portfolio on 8 June 2020, Brewin Dolphin say it mirrored that of their Risk Category 3 
Benchmark. But as Ive said, I think Mr P could have performed this rebalancing 24 working 
days earlier. So, this rebalancing could have occurred on 1 May 2020 instead.
I consider the fairest outcome to put Mr P broadly in line with where his funds should be is 
for Curtis Banks to compare the returns Mr Ps actual portfolio saw between 1 May 2020 and 
8 June 2020 with the performance of Brewin Dolphins Risk Category 3 benchmark (which 
theyve confirmed they can supply) over the same period. This will demonstrate whether 
Mr P suffered a loss between 1 May 2020 and 8 June 2020 (the 24 working day delay 
caused by Curtis Banks).
If this demonstrates a loss, Curtis Banks should find the evidenced average return for Mr Ps 
portfolio between 8 June 2020 and the date on which Curtis Banks is notified of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision, and then increase its loss calculation accordingly.
Curtis bank should add 8% simple interest per year from the date on which they are notified 
of Mr Ps acceptance of my final decision to the date of settlement if the complaint is not 
settled within 60 days of the date on which they are notified of Mr Ps acceptance of my final 
decision.
Where compensation is due, Curtis Banks should pay into Mr P's current pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Curtis Banks isnt able to pay the compensation into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay the 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that hes likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if 
hed have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Curtis Banks should provide the details of the calculations to Mr P in a clear, simple format. 
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ps I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Curtis Banks actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.In this case Curtis Banks asked Mr P for evidence of his losses, which he did, but later 
disputed theyd caused any loss at all. I think that added to the upset caused and 
inconvenience Mr P faced in trying to resolve the complaint. Ive also considered that 
Curtis Banks has already waived the £100 fee it normally charges for the COIM. But in 
recognition of the upset and inconvenience caused Curtis Banks should additionally pay 
Mr P £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Curtis Banks Limited to 
compensate Mr P as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman