DRN-3416520
The complaint
Mr A has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited shouldnt 
have accepted the transfer of his defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) on an 
execution only basis.
What happened
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why she didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld in her assessment. She sent a copy to both parties. But in 
summary, Mr A had been a member of his employers defined benefits OPS for a number of 
years when it closed to future accrual in July 2004. Mr A subsequently joined and started 
making regular contributions to the replacement scheme that was being offered - a group 
stakeholder plan. 
There was a lot of uncertainty surrounding the future of Mr As employer, and also about the 
financial strength and future of the defined benefits OPS. The Trustees of the OPS wrote a 
letter to its members in March 2005.  They said there had been ongoing discussions about 
the future of the scheme. And that it wasnt clear at that point whether the scheme would 
qualify for entry into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF).
Mr A said that he and his colleagues went to three presentations at work where the options 
about the OPS were outlined. He said the first option was to leave his benefits in the 
scheme. However that it was stressed this was indicated to be the worst option given his 
long service. The second option was presented by a firm of Independent Financial Advisers 
(IFA) who recommended transferring the defined benefits to a personal pension plan with a 
particular pension provider. And the third option offered by Scottish Life (Royal London are 
responsible for complaints against it), who provided the group stakeholder plan.
The administrators of the OPS wrote to Mr A with a transfer value in October 2005. The 
guaranteed transfer value offered was £134,723. The letter said this was a reduced transfer 
value to reflect the underfunding of the scheme. It said that if there had been no reduction 
the transfer value would have been £186,092.
Scottish Life sent Mr A the relevant forms to transfer the OPS benefits into the group 
stakeholder plan in November 2005. He signed the application and his defined benefits were 
transferred to the plan in December 2005.
Mr A complained to Royal London about the transfer in 2021, and it was subsequently 
referred to us. 
The investigator acknowledged what Mr A had said about feeling under pressure to decide 
what he wanted to do with the defined benefits prior to transferring, and that hed only had 
limited time to make that decision. She said she didnt have any documentary evidence from 
the time of the presentation meetings. She had, however, reviewed the subsequent 
paperwork that was available, and in particular noted the request for pension transfer 
document provided by Scottish Life dated 5 November 2005 which opened with:
If you decide to proceed with the transfer into your Stakeholder Plan then this transaction 
will be dealt with on an Execution Only basis as no advice has been asked for or given. I 
am unable to provide financial advice in relation to pension transfers. If you require financial 
advice, or are in any doubt regarding the suitability of taking this action, then you should 
contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
The investigator said the forms that were enclosed with the letter that were required to 
proceed with the transfer did first require Mr As signature. So at that point the transfer could 
still have been stopped.
The letter went onto say: 
Whilst you will be given an opportunity to cancel the transaction for up to 30 days after the
transfer has been received by Scottish Life, because of the specific circumstances 
surrounding  the scheme that your benefits are being transferred from, it is possible that you 
will not be able to have the transfer value paid back into the [name of OPS].
The investigator thought that Scottish Life had made it clear in its correspondence that it 
wasnt acting in an advisory capacity. She said that even if Mr A had been unclear what the 
term execution only meant, it was otherwise explained that no advice had been provided. 
And if he had any doubts about proceeding with the transfer Scottish Life had recommended 
that he seek independent financial advice. A recommendation to seek financial advice had 
also been provided on the transfer value produced by the OPS Trustees.  
The investigator said Scottish Lifes role in the transaction was as the product provider, and 
not as an adviser. She said she was satisfied it had made this adequately clear in the 
paperwork provided to Mr A before he elected to proceed with the transfer. Mr A had 
confirmed to the investigator that he didnt take financial advice about transfer, and had 
indicated he didnt raise any further questions with Scottish Life after receiving the transfer 
application pack. The investigator said shed seen no evidence to suggest that Scottish Life 
had given advice to Mr A.
Overall, the investigator didnt think that Scottish Life had treated Mr A unfairly or acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said, in summary, that he thought 
Scottish Life had been negligent and misinforming in the presentation of the product he had 
signed up for. He said it hadnt explained the implications of the execution only clause. And it 
was also part of the pressure and stresses that hed been put through at the time.
Mr A also queried why the vast majority of his former colleagues who attended the 
presentation but transferred through the IFA received compensation through the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Theyd been compensated because of the poor 
information and advice theyd been given at the same meeting that Mr A had attended.
The Branch Secretary of the Union that had helped in arranging the presentation meetings 
and who had attended them provided evidence on Mr As behalf. In summary, he re-iterated 
what Mr A had said about the employer and pension scheme being in financial difficulty. He 
said the employer was in administration and the pension scheme had issues, so people 
were worried they could lose their job and their pensions. 
He said the employer had asked him if a representative from Scottish Life could attend the 
meeting as they were putting together a new pension scheme at the same time and wanted 
to be present to answer any questions. He said it was clear in the meetings that no one really understood what it would mean if the OPS went into the PPF. The PPF had only just 
been established and there was a lot of uncertainty about what it might provide - 90% or 
70% or less if the OPS went into it.
He said the IFA had said it was a no brainer on what to do, and to move out of the OPS  
so this showed why people did it. He said Mr A would have attended a meeting on 3 or 4 
November 2005 where the advisers were telling people to transfer. Although Mr A may have 
been given 30 days to get independent financial advice, he questioned why Mr A would do 
so after just sitting in a meeting hearing the scheme would close and go into the PPF where 
he could lose everything or get a small return. 
He also said he didnt understand the FSCS decision to refuse Mr As claim, as other 
members he had helped with claims against the IFA and with similar paperwork had 
received compensation. He thought this was unfair. Mr A also said that an ex-colleague had 
recently been successful in a claim with the FSCS made against Scottish Life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
Ultimately, in order to uphold Mr As complaint against Scottish Life Id need to decide that 
Scottish Life had done something wrong. In thinking about that, Im required to take into 
account, amongst other things, any relevant law and regulations, regulators rules guidance 
and standards and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice. 
As the investigator explained, legislation surrounding taking pensions advice has changed 
since 2005. This was largely due to the advent of Pension Freedoms in 2015. But since 
then, pension providers are required to obtain confirmation that appropriate financial advice 
has been taken from a qualified individual where benefits valued above a certain amount are 
transferred out of a defined benefits scheme. But this wasnt the case in 2005. And I have to 
consider the matter in light of the rules and requirements that were in force at that time.
So in 2005 there was no specific requirement for the pension provider to ensure financial 
advice was taken. The regulators Principles for Business required Scottish Life to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. And its Conduct of Business 
Rules required that where it communicated information to a customer, it needed to take 
reasonable steps to communicate in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading.
Scottish Life has said that it didnt give advice and the transfer was arranged on an 
execution only basis. This is consistent with the documentation from the time as outlined by 
the investigator. Mr A was sent a number of letters referring to him taking financial advice by 
both Scottish Life and the Trustees of the OPS. I note the Trustees letter dated 28 October 
2005 said the unusual and complex circumstances in which the Scheme finds itself mean 
that it is very important indeed that you obtain advice from an experienced advisor who is 
familiar with Pension Protection fund issues. And..
The Trustee is not able to advise on whether to take a transfer from the Scheme. The 
Trustee strongly recommends that you take independent financial advice to help you 
consider carefully the possible merits and risks associated with taking a transfer value. You 
should be satisfied that any advisor is familiar with PPF issues and can advise you 
accordingly.Both Mr A and the Branch Secretary of the Union have said Scottish Life was at the 
November 2005 meetings. Clearly its difficult to conclude with any reasonable degree of 
certainty exactly what was said. Although we have obtained a copy of the presentation that 
was given by Scottish Life when the group stakeholder pension plan was set up, it doesnt 
cover transfers to the stakeholder plan. Scottish Life has said this is when it gave its 
presentation.  Mr A has however acknowledged, that he didnt receive advice.
In all the circumstances, Ive seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that it was more likely 
than not that Scottish Life gave advice to Mr A. Or that it provided misleading information. 
Scottish Life didnt receive commission or any other kind of payment for the transfer which 
might be indicative of advice being given (although not determinate). 
I accept that the IFA may have given advice at that meeting or on a personal basis to other 
members. And the IFA may have said something that persuaded Mr A to transfer. However 
his complaint here is against Scottish Life  not the IFA. So in this decision I am only 
considering if Scottish Life did something wrong  not the IFA.
Ive thought about whether in meeting its obligations to pay due regard to Mr As interests 
and treat him fairly, Scottish Life ought to have insisted that Mr A take financial advice before 
he transferred. 
As mentioned earlier, there was no specific legislation or rules that required Scottish Life to 
require or insist that Mr A took financial advice at the time that he transferred. And the 
regulator allowed execution only transactions of this type without the necessity of taking 
financial advice. Scottish Life had alerted Mr A to taking financial advice as did the Trustees 
of the OPS. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to apply a higher standard on the firm 
than was required of it at the time. Taking all the circumstances into account, I dont think 
there was any obligation on Scottish Life to insist that Mr A take advice before it accepted 
the transfer. 
Mr A has said he doesnt think it was appropriate for Scottish Life to have offered to transfer 
the benefits out of the defined benefit scheme, as he didnt fully understand the risks to his 
retirement plans. Ive considered whether Scottish Life should have refused to accept a 
transfer. 
The future of the employer sponsoring the defined benefits scheme was clearly uncertain. 
Against that background, there was also considerable concern about the future viability of 
the OPS given it was significantly underfunded. This is consistent with what Mr A has said 
about his and other members concerns about losing their pensions and the other 
contemporaneous information and evidence that has been provided. For example an 
undated letter to scheme members from the Trustees said, amongst other things:
A number of questions have been raised by members of the Pension Scheme about what 
the likely outcome of current discussions with [the employer] will mean for their pension. I 
understand the concern members have about this. However it is difficult to provide firm 
information because the position is capable of changing and the Pension Scheme's position 
under the new Pension Protection Fund (PPF) is still not resolved.
.
Discussions with [the employer] and its creditors about a settlement of the Pension 
Scheme's claim have been continuing, Unfortunately there continues to be a substantial gap 
between the amount which I believe would be a fair settlement of the Pension Scheme's 
claim and the amount which [the employer] is prepared to pay. These discussions carry on.What would happen if the scheme does not qualify for the Pension Protection 
Fund?
If the Pension Scheme does not qualify for the PPF, in all probability it will have to be wound 
up and pensions would be secured with an insurance company. It is difficult to foresee 
circumstances in which the Pensions Regulator would be prepared to see the Pension 
Scheme continue running if it does not qualify for the PPF.
Approximate calculations which I have had carried out suggest that, if the Pension 
Scheme had to wind up after April 6, its assets would be sufficient to cover roughly 73% of 
the benefits of members who have reached normal pension age and roughly 65% of the 
benefits of members still under normal pension age
. Nothing is certain about the PPF at this stage, since its rules of operation have not yet 
been published. It appears that there is a good chance that the [name of scheme] will qualify 
for the PPF, but satisfying the conditions for entry which have been published so far is not 
within the control of the Trustees of the [name of scheme].
And as I have said above, the letter from the Trustees dated 28 October 2005 which was just 
prior to the transfer referred to the unusual and complex circumstances in which the 
Scheme finds itself. It went onto say:
The Schemes current circumstances are complex. The [employer and companies] which 
participate in the Scheme are in administration and there is no prospect of these companies 
paying the level of contributions required to enable the Scheme to continue in the long term. 
The Scheme is in discussions with the Pension Protection Fund (the PPF). If these 
discussions are successful, the PPF will accept responsibility for the Scheme and pay 
compensation at a level set out in legislation.
The letter went onto outline the levels of compensation payable through the PPF and then 
said:
If discussions regarding PPF entry are not successful, the most likely outcome will be that 
the Scheme has to wind up. In these circumstances benefits will be paid on the same basis 
as PPF compensation, as described above, but there would have to be a reduction because 
of lack of funds. 
My understanding is that ultimately the OPS didnt get wound up or go into the PPF. And that 
some of Mr As colleagues remained members of it, and so havent lost out by transferring. 
However the evidence from the time does show there were real concerns about the future of 
the scheme, and no guarantees regarding entry to the PPF. So at the time there appeared to 
be some risk with all of the options available. 
As Ive said, one of the options available to Mr A was to transfer to the group stakeholder 
plan that had been set up by Scottish Life. And that was on an execution only basis. I cant 
know exactly how execution only was explained at the time. However I think Scottish Life 
had made it clear it wasnt providing advice, and alerted Mr A to taking independent financial 
advice, as did the Trustees. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think there was an obligation on Scottish Life to 
refuse to accept the transfer. In my view it was entitled to accept the transfer on an 
execution only basis.
Mr A and the Branch Secretary of the Union have referred to other colleagues who were in 
the same situation, who transferred out of the OPS but have been compensated by the FSCS. Whilst I understand this might appear unfair, their circumstances were slightly 
different if they transferred on the advice of the IFA. The FSCS has its own rules on claims 
which are different to ours. But generally speaking, by giving advice the IFA was accepting 
responsibility for the suitability of that advice; in effect, if its advice was unsuitable then its 
client could make claims against it. If Mr A thinks the FSCS is also being inconsistent in 
accepting claims that dont involve the IFA he will need to contact the FSCS to discuss that 
matter. 
I appreciate that Mr A will be very disappointed with my decision; in particular in the context 
of whats happened with some of his colleagues and the fairness of how it all seems. 
However as I have explained above, this complaint is against Scottish Life, and I need to 
consider the matter in light of Scottish Lifes obligations at the time. For the reasons Ive set 
out, Im not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that it failed to meet its obligations. 
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman