DRN-1597636
The complaint
Mr H complains Motability Operations Limited (MO) acted unfairly when it suspended him 
from applying to the Motability scheme for twelve months.
What happened
Mr H has a number of disabilities and receives Disability Living Allowance (DLA).
Mr H has used his DLA over the years to apply for vehicles and a wheelchair through the 
Motability Scheme. MO is an integral part of the Motability Scheme in that it leases vehicles 
chosen by applicants and hires those vehicles to the applicants. The hire agreements that 
MO enters into typically last three years, but some last five years. Theyre regulated by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 meaning some complaints about MO can be referred to us.
In September 2019 MO told Mr H that it was going to suspend him from the Motability 
Scheme for twelve months given the number of times hed terminated agreements early. He 
complained to MO about this, and then to our service as he was unhappy with its response.
MO said that they didnt think we could look into Mr Hs complaint as there was no live 
agreement in place. Our investigator didnt agree, saying that we can look at complaints from 
potential customers as well as actual customers. MO didnt agree but was happy for our 
investigator to continue looking into Mr Hs complaint.
Our investigator looked into the merits of Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, they didnt think 
that MO had acted fairly as they didnt think it had applied its policy consistently nor had it 
considered Mr Hs individual circumstances. So our investigator recommended that MO give 
Mr H one further chance.
MO disagreed with our investigator saying that it had warned Mr H on a number of occasions 
that it was concerned about the number of times hed terminated his agreements early. MO 
also said that it, like any other commercial organisation, has the freedom to decide who it 
wants to contract with and that we would, in effect, be making it enter into an agreement 
under duress if we upheld Mr Hs complaint. MO said that such an agreement would be 
unenforceable. MO asked for a decision from an ombudsman. Ive spoken to both parties at 
length since then.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MO has told us that each time a customer terminates an agreement early this has significant 
cost implications for the Motability Scheme. So it has a policy on multiple early terminations 
which it applies to all of its customers. That policy says, according to MO, that a customer 
who terminates four agreements early will be suspended from the Motability Scheme for 
twelve months. The policy is an entirely sensible one.MO says it suspended Mr H from the Motability Scheme in September 2009 because of the 
number of times hed terminated agreements early. So our investigator asked MO if it could 
send us a copy of its multiple early terminations policy. MO told us that it doesnt have a 
standalone document, but it has shared an internal flowchart and it has explained how the 
policy works. I agree with our investigator, however, that the explanations weve been 
provided with havent always been consistent. Ill give a couple of examples:
1. MO has told us that before deciding whether or not to suspend a customer it looks at 
how many times theyve voluntarily terminated an agreement early during the 
previous seven years. The flowchart weve been sent, however, says nothing about 
looking back only seven years  its silent on this point. MO has also told us that it will 
suspend a customer if the agreement they terminate is the fourth one theyve 
terminated in the last seven years. The flowchart, however, suggests that customers 
who have only terminated early once or twice might not be offered a further car  and 
doesnt say what the consequences are if a customer has already terminated three 
times or more times; and
2. in its responses to our service, MO has mentioned several times that Mr H has 
terminated nine agreements early in a short space of time. This appears to be a 
reference to the entire time hes been hiring vehicles through the Motability Scheme 
 twenty-five years. I dont agree twenty-five years is a short space of time. 
Because of this our investigator asked why MO kept on referring to Mr H having 
terminated nine agreements if its only looked back seven years. MO told them that 
this was simply to provide a context. Im not convinced. I say this because Ive seen 
MOs internal notes for September 2019 and they mention several times that hed 
terminated six agreements early and so should be suspended from the scheme even 
though he terminated three of those agreements more than seven years earlier.
 
MO initially told us that it introduced its multiple early terminations policy in 2017. Im 
satisfied, however, that MO has had such a policy since at least 2012. That because I can 
see, amongst other things, that MO warned Mr H in June 2012 that hed already terminated 
three agreements early and that it would allow him to terminate early again. More recently 
MO has told us that it clarified and tightened up its multiple early terminations policy in 2017.
Mr Hs agreements with MO
Between 1994 and 2009 Mr H had an appointee who acted on his behalf. His appointee took 
out six agreements on his behalf  five of which ran their full term. Mr H terminated the sixth 
agreement early and between October 2010 and May 2018 he took out a further six 
agreements. He took out further agreements in July 2018, September 2018 and April 2019 
all of which he terminated early. In short, Mr H has had 15 agreements since 1994  nine of 
which MO says hes terminated early.
Im satisfied that the last three times Mr H terminated agreements early  namely in 
September 2018, April 2019 and September 2019  this meant hed terminated four 
agreements early in the previous seven years. In other words, MO was entitled, according to 
its multiple early terminations policy, to suspend Mr H in September 2018, April 2019 and 
September 2019. It wasnt until Mr H terminated his agreement in September 2019, 
however, that MO suspended from the scheme. At that stage, all four of the agreements that 
hed terminated early were agreements hed terminated after MO had tightened up its 
multiple early terminations policy.
Our investigator didnt think it would have been fair for MO to apply its multiple early 
terminations policy retrospectively. At that stage, MO had told us that it had introduced this 
policy in 2017. Id agree with our investigator if that was the case. But, as Ive mentioned above, it looks like MO had a multiple early terminations policy as far back as 2012. So I 
dont think this point carries as much weight.
I asked MO why it didnt suspend Mr H in September 2018 or April 2019 despite the fact that 
hed terminated four agreements early in the previous seven years on both occasions. MO 
said that it applies its multiple early terminations policy flexibly in order to be fair and 
reasonable to its customers. If thats why MO didnt suspend Mr H  I dont necessarily think 
it was  then thats not something that I think is wrong. Thats because I agree with MO that 
its important with policies like this to always retain flexibility as there may be cases where it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to suspend someone.
MOs internal notes show that it suspended Mr H from the scheme in September 2019 on 
the understanding that hed terminated six agreements early. Having looked at the history, 
Im satisfied that MO took into account the following agreements when coming to that 
conclusion:
1. the agreement he terminated in October 2010;
2. the agreement he terminated in December 2011;
3. the agreement he terminated in March 2012;
4. the agreement he terminated in May 2018;
5. the agreement he terminated in July 2018; and
6. the agreement he terminated in September 2018.
 
Three of those agreements, however, had been terminated more than seven years earlier  
October 2010, December 2011 and March 2012  and one of them had been terminated due 
to mechanical issues  December 2011. In other words, MO took into accounts agreements 
that, according to its own policy, it shouldnt have done when it suspended Mr H. I dont think 
that this was fair or reasonable.
Had MO taken the agreements its policy said it should take into account, it would have seen 
that Mr H had terminated four agreements early in the previous seven years. MO would, 
therefore, have been entitled to suspend him from the Motability Scheme. As MO has 
mentioned, however, its policy is a flexible one  so just because it could suspend Mr H 
doesnt mean it had to.
I can see that the suspension has had a really big impact on Mr Hs mental health. He also 
appears to recognise now that he cant simply keep on terminating agreements early, and 
even though a couple of the terminations were in part due to changes in his circumstances, 
that he needs to make sure that the vehicle he chooses is the right one before he takes out 
an agreement. That means, for example, that he shouldnt be taking out an agreement 
before hes been properly assessed and that he should also, for example, make sure he 
test-drives any vehicle before he makes his final decision. I asked MO, in light of this, 
whether it would be prepared to shorten Mr Hs period of suspension to six months. MO 
wasnt willing to do so, which in this case is, I think, unfortunate. That doesnt, however, 
necessarily mean that MO has acted in a way thats unfair or unreasonable. Thats important 
because I have to decide complaints based on whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
MO warned Mr H several times that he would be suspended if he terminated his last 
agreement early. MO had, however, said this before and not suspended Mr H. MO could 
have suspended Mr H previously too, but from the notes Ive seen there were times when it 
simply went ahead and allowed him to have another vehicle. Ive seen no evidence that MO 
decided not to suspend Mr H because it took a conscious decision to do so in line with the 
flexibility built into its policy. Instead the evidence suggests that MO applied its policy inconsistently and sometimes incorrectly. This has sent out mixed messages to Mr H. I dont 
think this is fair, and Im satisfied that it has caused Mr H unnecessary trouble and upset. In 
the circumstances, Im going to require MO to pay Mr H £500 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused but Im not going to require it to revoke Mr Hs suspension. That 
means he wont be able to take out another agreement until September 2020. I hope, when 
he does so, that he makes sure he chooses his next vehicle carefully, including getting 
assessed and having a test drive. I know that MO doesnt believe it has acted unfairly, and 
that it shouldnt have to pay Mr H compensation.
Putting things right
My final decision
My final decision is that Motability Operations Limited should pay Mr H £500 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset that hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman