DRN-2895495
The complaint
Mr G complains about the market value offered on his car after it was written off.
What happened
Mr G claimed on his car insurance after his car was damaged by water. His car was deemed 
a total loss, so Soteria agreed to pay a cash settlement. 
Mr G is happy that the claim was handled correctly up until this point, but he feels the offer 
made was too low. He says that, although Soteria have used a number of trade guides to 
calculate the value of his car, the amount offered isnt enough for him to replace it with a like 
for like vehicle. And he says that the trade guides can be disregarded if theres compelling 
evidence that their valuation isnt accurate.
Mr G provided a number of adverts for similar cars, which he said showed that he couldnt 
easily go into the market and replace his car with a like for like model, at the value he was 
being offered. He also said that his car had some additional features, including a 
communications pack, which he didnt think Soteria had taken into account.
Our investigator looked at the evidence Mr G provided and also what Soteria said. She 
agreed that Soteria hadnt included the communications pack in their valuation. But from 
looking at the trade guides, this wouldnt have increased the value anyway. And she said 
that Soteria had included all of the other features and had even increased their valuation due 
to the metallic paint on Mr Gs car, which the trade guides feel doesnt add value. 
So, she thought theyd been fair when considering the additional extras on Mr Gs car.
She also said that, although Mr G had provided adverts showing similar cars for sale at 
higher prices, there were some available in the price range Soteria had offered. And she felt 
that as Soteria had used the trade guides as wed expect them to, and had offered the 
highest amount the guides suggested, theyd acted fairly.
Soteria looked at our investigators view and acknowledged that they hadnt included the 
communications pack in their valuation. They said this was because it wasnt included in the 
HPI information for that car. They also said that, even though the pack didnt increase the 
valuation according to the guides, they were prepared to increase their offer from £7,226 to 
£7,954.
Our investigator put this offer to Mr G. He reluctantly agreed to accept it, but he still wasnt 
satisfied it reflected the true market value of his car. He also felt he should be paid interest 
for the time he was waiting for the increased offer. And he should be compensated for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and the extra costs hes incurred as he had to buy and 
run a temporary cheaper car that was large enough for his family.
Our investigator felt that the original offer Soteria made was fair. So although theyd 
increased it now, they shouldnt have to pay interest or compensation for any delays. 
Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to decide on the exact market value of Mr Gs car at the time of loss. Its to 
decide whether the offer made by Soteria was fair and reasonable.
As our investigator explained, we generally consider the trade guides to be the most reliable 
method for calculating the market value. This is because theyre based on extensive 
nationwide research of the likely selling prices of vehicles.
Mr G is correct to point out that our service can depart from the trade guides, if we feel 
theres evidence that suggests they arent accurate. In this case, Mr G has pointed to the 
fact that the majority of advertised prices are much higher than the amount he was offered.
Ive looked at the adverts Mr G provided. And Ive also carried out searches of similar cars 
currently for sale. I appreciate that these may have depreciated from the time of loss. But it 
does help create a consistent picture of the market for this type of vehicle, rather than just a 
single moment in time.
Upon reviewing all of the evidence, I feel that there were, and still are, similar cars 
advertised for less than the valuation offered by Soteria. I appreciate that these may have 
slightly different features. But theyre all of a similar condition and mileage, which tend to be 
the key factors in assessing the market value of a car. 
I also think its important to note that, based on the trade guides, the features Mr G has 
mentioned dont increase the market value.
Based on this, Im satisfied that Soteria acted fairly by offering Mr G the highest market value 
suggested by the trade guides. 
As theyve now agreed to increase their offer, I think this new figure should be the amount 
they pay. But Im not asking them to pay interest on top of this new amount, or any 
compensation. This is because their original offer was fair and it was Mr Gs choice not to 
accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
Soteria Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman