DRN-4262303
The complaint
Mr H complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has acted in a discriminatory way due to its 
fee structure. He considers that BUPA doesnt pay its specialist medical providers enough. 
Mr H says this meant that he was unable to see his preferred specialist when he made a 
claim on his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a personal private medical insurance policy. He made a claim for treatment, which 
BUPA authorised. Mr H wished to see a particular medical professional who specialised in a 
particular field. Ill call the provider Mr D. However, while Mr D was recognised by BUPA, it 
appears he told Mr H that he didnt take on BUPA patients because its fee contributions 
were too low.
So Mr H got in touch with BUPA because he said he was unable to find a medical 
professional who specialised in the field of care he was seeking. He felt that BUPA had 
failed to meet its obligations under the Equality Act 2010 and that it didnt pay its providers 
enough. He also considered that BUPA should ensure that policyholders with protected 
characteristics had access to treatment.
BUPA didnt consider it had discriminated against Mr H and it said that it could only cover 
treatment provided by BUPA-recognised specialists. It provided Mr H with a list of 
recognised specialists and it also directed Mr H to its BUPA finder  which enables 
policyholders to search for recognised specialists.
Mr H was unhappy with BUPAs response and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think BUPA had treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably. He felt the 
policy terms made it clear that BUPA would only cover treatment provided by specialists it 
recognised. He didnt think BUPA was responsible for Mr Ds decision not to treat BUPA 
policyholders. And he considered that BUPA had tried to take reasonable steps to help Mr H 
find an alternative specialist.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and Ill explain why.
First, its important I make the parameters of this decision clear. I appreciate Mr H would like 
us to direct BUPA to increase its fee contributions to its recognised specialists. It appears he 
believes that this would lead to policyholders with protected characteristics having better 
access to specialist medical providers. However, I have no power to tell a financial business 
to change its policies or procedures  or what fee agreements it should have in place. 
Neither can I tell a financial business what commercial agreements it must enter into with 
external providers. Thats because were not the industry regulator. My role is to look into 
complaints brought by individual consumers to assess whether theyve been treated fairly 
and reasonably by a financial business we cover, in the individual circumstances of their 
complaint.
So Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Hs 
contract with BUPA. The policy provides cover for eligible treatment. BUPA was satisfied 
that Mr H had claimed for eligible treatment and this had been pre-authorised. This is what 
Id reasonably expect BUPA to do. 
The policy says:
All Treatment must be carried out in a Recognised Facility in the UK and is provided by a 
Consultant, medical practitioner or healthcare professional who is recognised by us for the 
Treatment you need on the date you receive that Treatment.
This term is reiterated on the Insurance Product Information Document and also set out on 
Mr Hs policy certificate. Accordingly, Im satisfied that BUPAs policy documents make it 
sufficiently clear that it will only pay for specialists it recognises.
In this case, BUPA does recognise Mr D and it would be prepared to pay for Mr H to 
undergo treatment with Mr D in accordance with its fee schedule. This is in line with its 
obligations under the contract terms. Its unfortunate that Mr D wont take on Mr Hs care, 
because I appreciate that he is a specialist in a field which is important to Mr H. But I cant 
fairly hold BUPA responsible for Mr Ds decision not to take on BUPA patients. 
What I would expect BUPA to do in situations like these though is to help Mr H to try and find 
a specialist who can help him. And from what Ive seen, I think it did. BUPA has provided Mr 
H with a list of other recognised specialists, along with details of its BUPA finder. So, it 
seems it was possible for Mr H to speak to someone who had the relevant experience and 
background he was seeking. It just wasnt possible to pair him with his preferred specialist. I 
dont think I could fairly or reasonably hold BUPA responsible for any specialists waiting 
times or a professionals decision not to offer Mr H treatment. I think BUPAs taken 
appropriate and reasonable steps to try and help Mr H find a specialist who can treat him.
Overall then, I dont think BUPA has treated Mr H unfairly. Ive listened to calls between 
BUPA and Mr H and I think he was given accurate and clear information. I dont find that he 
was treated rudely or provided with poor customer service. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that BUPA has treated Mr H any differently to any of its other policyholders or 
singled him out unfairly in any way.
I appreciate Mr H has concerns that BUPA has breached its obligations under the Equality 
Act 2010. Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a 
matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not BUPA has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, 
amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
Its clear Mr H feels BUPA has discriminated against him, given the problems hes 
experienced. But having carefully considered all of the evidence, I dont think BUPA has done so. I say this because, although Mr H wasnt able to access his preferred specialists 
via BUPA, I do think it offered him reasonable alternatives. And I dont think the reason why 
Mr H was unable to work with his preferred therapist was the result of any unreasonable 
behaviour on the part of BUPA, but rather due to Mr D charging a higher rate than BUPA 
was prepared to pay. It isnt unusual, or specific to any one area of medicine or any specific 
group of people, and so I dont think BUPA has behaved unreasonably in how its fee 
structures apply in the circumstances of Mr Hs claim. I hope that it helps Mr H to know that 
someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman