DRN-2417750
The complaint
Mr E has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) wont repair his boiler and 
declare it safe because there is corrosion present.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint and received further 
submissions from Mr E to which Ill refer below.
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and has been summarised by our 
investigator in her view. I therefore wont repeat it in detail here. But I will just mention what I 
understand to be the main areas upon which Mr E and BG disagree.  
Mr Es boiler is 25 years old and BG has serviced it since 2009. At BGs service visit in 2014, 
corrosion was noted in the combustion chamber, but the engineers report at that time was 
that it was still sound and intact. 
At the service visit on 11 October 2019, corrosion was again noted in the internal casing and 
also in the flue. BG has explained that corrosion is caused by natural processes such as 
condensation, fatigue and age and isnt due to inadequate maintenance. BGs engineer 
classified Mr Es boiler as at risk. 
Mr E has referred to the gas safety certificate which was issued which states that his boiler is 
at risk. In response to the question is the appliance safe, the certificate says no. He 
argues that a repair therefore needs to be done to make it safe, and that BG is obliged to 
undertake a repair. Hes referred to his policy terms which say that it covers all repairs, and 
that repairs are defined as:
 to fix your boiler, appliance or system following an individual fault or breakdown 
but not repairs that are purely cosmetic (for example; mould, dents or scratches) or 
related to software which doesnt stop the main function of your boiler, appliance or 
system from working or make it unsafe.    
BG has said that Mr Es policy doesnt cover him for repairs where corrosion has been 
identified. Mr E doesnt agree that corrosion is excluded from his policy. He wants BG to 
make his boiler safe and serviceable.
BG has said that Mr Es boiler is currently still operational although corroded. It cant do 
anything about that. It cant replace the affected part[s] as these are no longer available. Its 
said that the combustion box, where corrosion was first identified in 2014, was never 
available as a standalone part and the boiler ceased production in the 1990s. Because of 
the corrosion, BG says it had no option but to categorise the boiler as at risk, and to issue a 
certificate with this advice.
BG has explained that if a boiler is classified as at risk, that doesnt make it unserviceable. 
It says that its entirely up to the customer to decide whether they wish to keep using it or to 
take the steps necessary to remove the risk, if there are steps that can be taken. In Mr Es 
case, BG says the only way to remove this risk would be to replace the boiler.
It says it continually advised Mr E that a replacement boiler would be the only way to remove 
the risk entirely. It says recommendations and paperwork would have been left with the 
responsible adult that Mr E arranges to be at the property at a service visit, but it would be 
between Mr E and his tenant to arrange communications regarding the service visit. Advice 
was also sent to Mr E in his annual renewal documents. Mr Es renewal notice for 2019 
gives an example of this. It states:
Our records show that your boiler is Baxi Heating Ltd SOLO WM 30/4 RS. Your 
boiler's manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while ago. 
They're still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts are 
becoming difficult to source. This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it 
breaks down, but we'll do our best to keep it running for as long as possible. In 
the unlikely event we can't fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back 
dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement - 
whichever's the most recent.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service. He didnt agree with the view of our investigator 
and has asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at Mr Es response to my provisional decision, and have gone back to 
look again at what BG has said. But what Mr E has said in his response doesnt persuade 
me that I should change my decision. So Im still not upholding his complaint.
Ultimately, Mr E wants BG to repair his boiler so that its safe and serviceable. His policy 
covers him for repairs.  He says The boiler should be made good as there is clearly a fault 
which renders the boiler unsafe as per their terms and conditions. If there is no fault it should 
be marked as safe.
The fault is corrosion. I dont consider that corrosion is an exclusion in Mr Es policy. But 
the presence of corrosion, which has caused BG to state that Mr Es boiler is at risk, isnt 
something it can do anything about. Its a consequence of the boilers age, as is the 
unavailability of parts that suffer from corrosion. BG says that:
Eventually the corrosion got to a point where the engineer classified it as At Risk due 
to the corrosion getting worse meaning we were highlighting the issue formally to the 
responsible person and were having to complete the Landlord CP12 paperwork 
accordingly. From what I can see, the boiler wasnt condemned and was still operational 
but we were putting the responsibility back into the hands of the end user or owner due 
to the increased corrosion.
BG is relying on the fact that no repair is needed to Mr Es boiler as it is still working, but 
some parts are corroded and can no longer be replaced. It cant continue to repair an old 
boiler if the parts required are no longer available from the manufacturer or another 
approved supplier. I think thats reasonable. Its why BG has recommended a new boiler as 
the only way to address the boiler now being at risk.  Mr E acknowledges that BG has issued a cautionary notice in its policy renewal letters 
advising that parts may cease to be available. BG says it will do its best to keep his boiler 
running for as long as possible. But until it breaks down, BG wont know what new parts 
might be required to repair it, and whether these are still available.
I think its reasonable for BG to allow a policy to continue in these circumstances on the 
basis that if it breaks down, and it cant be fixed because of the unavailability of parts, it will 
consider a refund of premium. A customer wont therefore have paid for a service that BG 
isnt able to provide.
Im satisfied that BG has given Mr E notice when his policy is due for renewal that parts 
needed in the future may no longer be available. He could therefore make a decision as to 
whether he would like to continue his cover in this knowledge. But if they are no longer 
available, BG cant do a repair.
Im satisfied that BG has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not to upholding Mr Es complaint against British Gas 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman