DRN-3649921
The complaint and what happened
Miss B complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse money she lost 
as a result of an investment scam. 
Miss B was looking for an investment opportunity to increase an inheritance she had recently 
received. She was contacted by a business  Invest Vault  which led her to believe it was 
regulated. She opened a trading account with them and deposited over £5,000 in one day. 
But whilst she was reviewing her deposits, she noticed money was leaving her trading 
account without her consent. Realising shed been scammed, she managed to immediately 
recoup just over £1,980, although the scammers got away with the rest. 
Miss B complained to NatWest. But it didnt uphold her complaint as she had made the 
payments via her own electronic money account with another provider. It therefore said it 
wasnt the point of loss. It did, however, pay her £50 for the service issues she experienced 
in trying to log her claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She didnt think the payments looked 
suspicious and noted they had been made to Miss Bs own account. Miss Bs representative 
has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman; it says the payments were 
unusual and payments being sent to another own account shouldnt be viewed any 
differently as payments to other places  such as a crypto-wallet.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have broadly come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Miss B  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Miss B authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I note NatWest declined reimbursement on the basis that it wasnt the point of loss. I 
dont necessarily agree with that. Just because a payment might be going to an 
account in a customers name, it doesnt mean its safe or that a customer isnt at risk 
of financial harm.  But I accept such payments are less likely to be of cause for 
concern.
Here, the representative has acknowledged that Miss B was making the payments to 
another account she held; one which she had specifically used previously to make 
investment transactions. Having looked at the operation of her account, Im not 
persuaded NatWest ought to have been on alert that Miss B might be at risk of 
financial harm. She had made similar sized transactions in the past. And Im mindful 
that only the month previous she had received a substantial sum into her account. 
Unsurprisingly that led to increased spending. In the weeks prior (and on the same 
day), it seems Miss B was also making payments to a crypto exchange. Furthermore, 
on the day in question it appears she spent a substantial sum - including these 
disputed transactions - across many different outlets, using various payment 
methods.  I accept some of those payments were for much smaller sums. But having 
considered the matter carefully, Im not persuaded the payments in dispute were so 
unusual or so uncharacteristic such that they were suspicious or that the bank ought 
to have been on alert that its customer was at risk of fraud or a scam. 
The bank was correct when it told Miss B it couldnt chargeback the payments  as 
they went directly to her account no chargeback rights exist. 
NatWest paid Miss B £50 compensation as she experienced problems getting 
through to report the scam. Neither Miss B nor her representative have made any 
comment about that when bringing the complaint to this office, so I assume they 
accept its fair compensation. For the sake of completeness, I find this a fair reflection 
of the impact not being able to get through had. Whilst the payments were pending at 
the time she reported the scam, NatWest wouldnt have been able to stop them even 
if she had got through sooner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman