DRN-3534536
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Albany Park Limited (Albany) mis-sold an income protection 
insurance policy to him.
What happened
Mr S spoke to Albany to review his income protection needs as his previous insurer had 
increased his premiums and he wasnt happy with the benefit level.
Albany recommended a policy which Mr S went ahead with. Mr S then made a claim for a 
hip replacement which the insurer declined because it said an exclusion relating to pre-
existing medical conditions applied. 
Unhappy, Mr S complained and said Albany had told him that any future hip replacement 
would be covered but this was incorrect. He had declared his replacement and osteoarthritis 
to Albany.
Albany looked into the complaint but didnt think it had mis-sold the policy as it had clearly 
explained the policy terms and conditions to Mr S during its sales call. And it had confirmed 
that cover was excluded for any condition which occurred within the last three years unless 
he hadnt had any treatment or advice for two years. 
Mr S disagreed and said the insurer had told him that his osteoarthritis would always be 
excluded because he was symptomatic. Unhappy with Albanys response, Mr S referred his 
complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that although the adviser had given Mr 
S incorrect information, he didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr S disagreed and in summary, he said the adviser had promised that his hip replacement 
would be covered and therefore his policy was mis-sold.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by our investigator.
When selling a policy on an advised basis, the seller must ensure the policy is suitable for 
the customers needs and circumstances. 
Ive listened to the sales calls between Mr S and Albany in which the adviser asked Mr S 
about his previous policy, the level of cover required and medical questions. 
Mr S said he needed a policy which would cover him for £1,200 per month if he was unable 
to work due to illness or an injury for up to 12 months. The adviser recommended a policy 
which was cheaper than his previous policy, provided a higher benefit and had the 
appropriate deferred period of 8 weeks as Mr S would be paid full sick pay for 8 weeks if he 
was absent from work due to illness or injury. 
Mr S told the adviser he had osteoarthritis in both hips and had had his left hip replaced four 
years ago. The adviser said that as this happened four years ago, this would now be 
covered.
The adviser asked if Mr S had consulted a doctor for a condition that had caused pain or 
restricted daily activities. Mr S responded no. 
The adviser also confirmed the following:
Cover was excluded for any specific medical condition that occurred in the three 
years prior to the start of the policy unless the policyholder had gone two years 
without symptoms, treatment or follow-up appointments. 
A medical condition was any disease, illness or injury for which the policyholder had 
symptoms, received treatment, medication or advice for.
Medical conditions that were likely to continue to need regular or periodic treatment, 
medication or medical advice would probably never be covered by the policy. 
Based on the above, even though Mr S subsequent hip replacement wasnt covered (and 
the adviser said that it would be), I think based on what the adviser knew about Mr S 
circumstances, he didnt mis-sell the policy. 
I agree that the adviser should not have categorically confirmed whether a condition would 
be covered or not as it would depend on the medical evidence and ultimately, it would be for 
the insurer to assess and decide whether something was covered. 
Additionally, the policy wasnt taken out by Mr S to solely cover his anticipated hip 
replacement. The policy was taken out to cover any illness or injury for up to 12 months, until 
retirement age. The adviser found a policy which would provide a higher benefit than his 
previous policy and which was cheaper. So overall, the policy was suitable for Mr S based 
on all of his circumstances and in line with what he wanted and needed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman