DRN-3644893
The complaint
Mr E complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) turned down his 
income protection claim and avoided his policy (cancelled from the start). 
What happened
Mr E held an income protection policy with L&G, the aim of which was to pay benefit if he 
couldnt work due to illness or injury. He took out the policy in January 2020.
In 2021, Mr E had an accident and stopped work for several months. He made a claim under 
the policy. L&G turned down the claim, as it said Mr E had misrepresented information about 
his health when taking out the policy. L&G said if it had known that information, it wouldnt 
have offered Mr E a policy. It therefore avoided his policy from the start and returned the 
premiums paid. Unhappy with this, Mr E brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought L&Gs decision to 
avoid the policy had been reasonable.
Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with 
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. 
L&G says that Mr E answered the below question incorrectly on the application form:
Health  Last 5 years

Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:

lupus, fibromyalgia, gout or any type of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint trouble, for 
example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
I agree with our investigator that this question was clear. Although the question referenced 
rheumatoid arthritis and sciatica, I think its clear that these were examples and the question 
wasnt only asking about these conditions. Mr E answered no to the question.
Ive considered Mr Es GP records. I see that in 2015 Mr E was signed off work for a few 
weeks due to lower back pain. In 2016, Mr E saw his GP regarding knee pain and was 
diagnosed with knee sprain. Then in 2018, Mr E was referred for physio after experiencing 
pain in his right hip for six to 12 months. Mr E reported gradual improvements in his hip pain 
up to October 2018. Though in 2019, he fell down and experienced right hip pain again and 
was signed off work for two weeks. 
I think its apparent from this that Mr E experienced joint trouble, as well as back trouble, in 
the five years before taking out the policy. Both his back pain and hip pain were significant 
enough to require him to take time off work. So I find it was reasonable for L&G to conclude 
that Mr E failed to take reasonable care when answering the question, as his answer ought 
to have been yes. 
L&G has shown this service that it wouldnt have offered Mr E cover if it had known the 
above information. That means the misrepresentation was qualifying for the purposes of 
CIDRA. 
L&G categorised the misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless. CIDRA says that a qualifying 
misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer: -
- knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
- knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer. 
Mr E says he didnt answer the relevant question correctly because he thought it was asking 
if he had rheumatoid arthritis or sciatica. Whilst I dont agree with Mr E that the question was 
unclear, Im not persuaded that L&G has shown that Mr E deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented information about his health. I therefore agree with our investigator that the 
misrepresentation was careless. 
However, I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome. I say that because 
L&G wouldnt have offered Mr E a policy if it had known the relevant information about his 
health. Therefore, the remedy to L&G under CIDRA for careless misrepresentation is that it 
may avoid the contract and refuse all claims, but must return the premiums paid. L&G has 
done this and so Im satisfied it has acted fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman