DRN-3289836
The complaint
Mr S complains about his bank, HSBC UK Bank Plc. He says the bank did not do enough 
to help him recover the financial losses caused by a fraudulent binary options company 
Tradefintech.com.
What happened
Mr S left his contact details on a webform as he was interested in trading in financial 
markets. He was contacted by a representative of Tradefintech.com and was persuaded 
to invest £250 (using his HSBC Visa debit card) in March 2018. He lost this money 
within one week.
An account manager for Tradefintech.com contacted him in May 2018 and advised that if 
he invested £1,000, he would be given a credit of £500 (which would recoup his previous 
losses). The account manager advised he would manage his investments and make Mr S 
money. Within one month, Mr S made £434 from his investment. In June 2018, the 
account manager called Mr S again and explained there was an up coming earnings 
season where he could make more money. Mr S was persuaded to invest and decided to 
use a credit card account held with another banking provider.
Mr S made profits and was persuaded (by the account manager) to invest a further £1,000 
on 26 June 2018. He did so using his HSBC Visa debit card. Mr S received a credit of 
£250 from Tradefintech.com on 2 July 2018. On 6 July 2018, Mr S account manager 
called him to advise that if he didnt invest more money, he would lose all of his funds as 
he had open trades. Feeling under pressure, Mr S deposited a further £1,000 using his 
HSBC Visa debit card. The account manager asked Mr S for more money and Mr S 
refused and ended the call. A couple of days later, Mr S noticed the funds in his trading 
account had been reduced to a zero balance.
Mr S tried to contact his account manager but did not hear anything further from him. Mr 
S approached a company that specialised in chargeback claims and was told that 
Tradefintech.com was not regulated and used trading platforms that could be 
manipulated. Mr S contacted HSBC for assistance with a chargeback claim.
HSBC attempted chargebacks on behalf of Mr S but when Tradefintech.coms bank 
defended the claims, it concluded it had no recourse to take the claims any further 
forward. Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators concluded first of all that Tradefintech.com was a scam 
investment company. He felt that HSBC could have presented the chargeback claim 
differently and in any event, it ought to have done more to protect Mr S from falling victim 
to a scam based on good practice. HSBC did not respond and the case has therefore 
been passed to me to decide.
On 19 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or 
losses. Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were not regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the timeusing sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly 
making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of 
making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of 
loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad 
bargains or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning 
would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 
consultation paper on investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether 
this particular retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Tradefintech.com were not carrying out legitimate cryptocurrency trades 
but were instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making 
trades/bets with the money received from clients but simply manipulating their online 
trading platform to show purported gains in order to induce further investments from 
victims such as Mr S. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this 
because:
a) On 26 April 2017, an alert about Tradefintech.com was published on the 
Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organiszation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO). The warning was published by Commissione 
Nazionale per le Societa e la Borsa in Italy about Fintech Technologies Limited 
trading as Tradefintech.com. This is a potential indicator of dishonest 
intentions.
b) On 23 May 2018, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a warning 
that Tradefintech.com were offering financial services in its jurisdiction without 
authority. This is a potential indicator of dishonest intentions.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome 
of the complaint:
a) Did HSBC deal with Mr S chargeback claim fairly?
b) Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mr S 
and/or his account that HSBC fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered 
some sort of intervention?
c) If triggered, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and 
prevented or reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mr S partly to blame for what happened such that it would be 
fair and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa (the scheme relevant to Mr S debit card 
transactions) whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant 
and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such 
arbitration is subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are limited grounds on 
which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas 
arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer 
(i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
Mr S is upset because HSBC refused to take his chargeback claims through Visa any 
further forward. I am mindful that the Visa chargeback rules did cover binary-options (or 
investment) trading from 14 October 2017, i.e. prior to the disputed transactions: see Visa 
Business News, 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out 
via the chargeback process.
However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required HSBC to present 
dated evidence that Mr S had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or 
confirmation from the merchant) and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, 
his available balances on the same day. Unfortunately, merchants like Tradefintech.com 
were aware of the specific requirements of the chargeback scheme and could manipulate 
the available balances. Ive noted this happened in Mr S case.
Our investigator felt that HSBC ought to have pursued chargeback claims using code: 
12.7. I dont think this would have been an option for HSBC because, from 1 December 
2018, Visas rules changed again to require binary-options merchants (and other high-
brand risk merchants) to be coded under Merchant Category Code (MCC) 7995
Betting, including Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, and Wagers 
at Race Tracks. Visa Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these 
merchants are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require 
licensing by the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason code 
12.7 (invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a much 
shorter timescale of 75 days from the transaction date for a claim to be processed. But 
this reason code would not have been applicable at the time Mr S requested his 
chargeback claims as merchants like Tradefintech.com were not yet required by Visa to 
re-code.
As the disputed transactions occurred in 2018 (after the changes to Visas chargeback 
reason codes were published), HSBC could only have successfully processed Mr S 
chargeback further than it did if he had the required evidence. And by the time Mr S 
realised hed fallen victim to a scam (after his final payment), he had no available balances left. So, declining to attempt a chargeback in accordance with the Visa 
chargeback process in circumstances where there were no reasonable prospects of 
success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of HSBCs discretion.
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with the chargeback claims at the time Mr S presented his 
case, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published 
many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules 
and regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr S for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the 
time. This is because they were made by Mr S using the legitimate security credentials 
provided to him by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though 
Mr S was the victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to 
go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank 
account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto 
counter various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing 
of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Mr S account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, 
and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet 
questions about the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victims that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of 
types of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed 
intelligence with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the 
regulator gave nospecific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to 
update its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an 
alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should 
automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending 
further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr S case, there was a warning about Tradefintech on IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal 
more than one month prior to Mr S initial payment. It is not unreasonable to expect a 
large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to include information 
about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without permission. I accept 
the warning would not have identified what type of investment was being sold; and it did 
not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that these were 
fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I do think HSBC 
ought to have automatically blocked it; as it had several months to update and 
communicate its watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee 
might not be a legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to 
have properly questioned Mr S before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself 
that all was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by contacting Mr S and asking suitably probing questions, 
there is no reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. In such 
circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have explained to him that there was a regulatory warning and 
invited him to look more closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in 
that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances and trading 
accounts could be manipulated. After all, at that time, there was information in the public 
domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the 
very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and 
Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation 
paper of December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning 
that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 
2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business 
News publication of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to 
cover binary options and investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed 
and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth).
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr S with any meaningful warnings or gave 
him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a 
missed opportunity to intervene.
causation
If HSBC had asked Mr S what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with his broker. HSBC did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr S was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are 
enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good 
practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated binary options.
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr S would have paused and looked more closely into Tradefintech.com before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing 
to
take high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more 
probable that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not Tradefintech.com 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the 
various regulatory warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). 
In other words, I am satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have 
exposed Tradefintech.coms smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing 
any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated 
high risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his 
supposed brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK 
investments but highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he 
is to win. So before Mr S payments were actually processed, he would probably have 
stopped in his tracks. But for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or 
financial harm, Mr S would probably have not lost any money.
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mr S was to blame for 
what happened; that he did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. I do not 
place too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons 
previously alluded to about the information imbalance between financial professionals and 
ordinary consumers.
Once Mr S lost his initial deposit, he was persuaded to invest more after Tradefintech.com 
agreed to pay back his losses. He then saw his trading account perform well with the help 
of an account manager. Mr S trusted who he believed to be experienced traders and had 
no cause to doubt their assurances. Unaware of the common deceptive tactics of 
scammers, as communicated by Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 2017, he unwittingly 
agreed to make a final deposit. When those funds were lost, he made no further deposits 
onto his platform as he realised it was a scam. I do not think he could earlier have 
foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was a scam and the trading 
account he was viewing was likely to be a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis 
that Mr S should share blame for what happened.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings and was happy with the 
outcome.
HSBC responded to say it didnt agree with everything I had said but would agree to the 
proposed resolution as a gesture of goodwill and without admission of liability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint, HSBC UK Bank plc 
should refund to Mr S all his stolen payments, less the amounts credited to him by 
Tradefintech.com. That would mean an award of £3,000.
This was a current account, so HSBC should add interest to that sum (less any tax 
properly deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the respective dates of 
loss. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman