DRN-1608043
The complaint
Mr Y complains Barclay Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for two transactions made
using his online banking facility. He wants Barclays to refund the payments.
Background
Mr Y holds a current account with Barclays. On 16 October 2019, two payments of £500
each left his account. They were paid to two different payees. Mr Y says he didnt make the
payments. He lost his mobile phone and thinks whoever found it was able to access his
online banking and defraud him.
Mr Y informed Barclays about the payments on 18 October 2019. He says he noticed them
when he checked his balance at an ATM. Barclays refused his claim, so Mr Y raised a
complaint, which was subsequently rejected.
Barclays say the payments were made using Mr Ys mobile phone, his access online
account is password protected, and the payments were made to new payees. To set up new
payees Mr Ys card details wouldve been needed. So, there isnt a reasonable explanation
of how someone couldve obtained these details at the same time.
Mr Y brought his complaint to our service. An investigator considered his complaint and
decided not to uphold it. In summary they found:
- The device used to make the transactions was the mobile phone Mr Y had used
before when online banking.
- Its possible someone else took his phone and made the transfers, but this was less
likely. That person wouldve needed to know Mr Ys mobile banking passcode and
the details from his debit card, which was still in Mr Ys possession and wasnt stolen.
Mr Y disagrees. He doesnt know how someone else knew his card details, but remembers
he caught a bus in the early evening and took his card out to check hed brought the right
one. So, he thinks his card details mustve been discreetly recorded at this time. Hes asked
for an ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint, so its been passed to me to
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Y says he didnt consent to the two payments that left his account. Under the Payment
Services Regulations 2017, a payment service provider  such as Barclays  is liable for
unauthorised transactions (those which its customer didnt agree to) subject to certain
exceptions.
So, I need to decide whether Mr Y consented to the payments that left his account in the
early hours of 16 October 2019. I cant know what did or did not happen  after all I wasnt
present when the payments were made. Instead, I need to determine what is more likely
than not to have happened based on the evidence Ive available.
Looking at the information and evidence Ive available, this is what Ive found:
- The device Mr Y used appears to have been the mobile phone he has used before
on the account. The unique information that is recorded when a payment from the
device matches previous records for genuine payments.
- To access the online banking facility, whoever used the phone mustve known Mr Ys
unique security information to log on to online banking.
- To set up a new payee Mr Ys card details were needed. This included the long card
number, the expiry date and the three-digit security code from the back of the card.
So, its likely whoever set up the payees had physical access to the card or was in
close proximity for a sufficient period of time to see both the front and back of the
card.
- Its unlikely someone had retained Mr Ys card information from a previous time,
prior to him losing his phone. Its never possible to predict with certainty how a
fraudster will behave. But its more likely that once a fraudster had obtained sufficient
card information, theyd attempt to use those details promptly, rather than waiting for
an opportunity to access Mr Ys online account via his phone.
- Mr Y says his card details couldve been observed when he was on a bus journey.
Its true, they couldve been discreetly observed or recorded. Mr Y says he caught
the bus in the early evening and checked his card to see whether hed brought the
right one. But I doubt this wouldve afforded enough time for someone to record all
the information they needed, and then to have discreetly taken Mr Ys phone.
On balance I find its less likely someone had the opportunity to observe Mr Ys card details
in the manner hes described. I find instead that the payments were likely authorised by Mr Y
due to the level of information someone else wouldve needed to make those payments.
I understand Mr Y thinks Barclays shouldve contacted the other banks who hold the
accounts to which the payments were made. But I find Barclays could fairly make the
decision it did without doing anything further.
Mr Y has gone to Action Fraud, who in turn wouldve passed his crime report to the National
Bureau of Fraud Investigation. It wouldve in turn passed the report to his local police force to
investigate.
Mr Y says he is the victim of a crime that presumably includes the theft of his mobile phone.
He may wish to contact his local police force using his crime reference number to ask what
the results of their investigation are. He may also want to provide them with the sort codes
and account numbers of the payees, if he has not already done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman