DRN-3352385
The complaint
Mr T complains that Citibank UK Limited sent a payment in the wrong currency.
What happened
On 11 June 2021, Mr T wanted to send some money in Euros  €40,000  from his account 
with Citibank to his sons account at a different bank. But when the transfer went through, 
Mr T saw that the money had been sent in Pounds instead. Mr T contacted Citibank and 
tried to stop the transfer going through, but that wasnt possible.
 
Mr T said hed input the necessary details correctly, but Citibanks online system wasnt 
responding properly when he made the transfer. Specifically, Mr T said that his screen was 
flickering when he was using the system. And he thought this caused the currency to change 
between Euros and Pounds. So, he complained to Citibank. 
  
To support his position, Mr T highlighted some press articles about past instances of issues 
with Citibanks system  and he also mentioned some previous issues hed personally 
experienced. Lastly, Mr T said hed also intended to use some of the money to buy a gift, but 
he was now unable to do so, because the price of the gift had risen by around €5,000.
 
As a resolution Mr T asked that Citibank; reimburse him anything that hed paid in charges 
and in converting the money between Euros and Pounds, pay him €5,000 to cover the 
increased price of the gift he intended to buy, and pay him €1,000 to cover the cost of phone 
calls hed had to make and the stress hed suffered.
 
In response, Citibank said it hadnt intervened in Mr Ts transfer. It had simply processed the 
payment in line with the instructions it had been given. Citibank also said its technical team 
hadnt identified any system issues, including those that Mr T had described. Additionally, 
Citibank also pointed out that the payment couldnt be processed without Mr T clicking the 
necessary button to confirm the payment details were correct  which it could see he had 
done.
 
Although Citibank didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, it said it did appreciate the error was likely 
the result of a genuine mistake. So, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund the 
€1,344.61 it had charged Mr T.
 
Mr T remained unhappy and he reiterated that Citibanks system was to blame. So, an 
investigator here looked at what had happened. 
In summary, the investigator said there was no evidence to suggest Citibank had done 
something wrong. He also set out that hed seen the online process Mr T wouldve followed, 
and Mr T wouldve had to input the necessary details of the transfer he wanted to make. The 
payment could only have been made if Mr T had approved the details  which hed done. 
Moreover, the investigator said there was no evidence of any technical issues which 
couldve affected Mr Ts payment  and that general historical issues with Citibanks systems 
werent evidence of this payment being adversely affected in any way. So, the investigator 
didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint be upheld.
 
Mr T disagreed, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
First, Ill say that I am aware Mr T has raised several issues with Citibank. The crux of this 
complaint, though, is the payment Mr T wanted to make in Euros. So, thats what Ive 
focussed on in this decision.
  
Turning to the matter at hand, this payment wasnt a transaction carried out with the 
assistance of Citibank staff. So, Ive looked at the online process Mr T would have followed. 
Citibank has provided some screenshots which show that, to make transfers, the process is 
entirely automated. The customer is ultimately responsible for inputting the details of who to 
pay and how much. I can also see the customer is required to select which currency theyd 
like the payment to be made in. So, Mr T wouldve had to provide that information when he 
attempted the payment in question. 
After providing the required details, Ive seen that Mr T wouldve been presented with a 
summary which sets everything out. Having reviewed Citibanks screenshots, I can see that 
all of the key payment information is present. Specifically, the payees name and account 
details, the destination country and bank address, the currency the payment will be made in 
and the amount to be sent is all visible. So, if any of those details on the summary screen 
werent correct, I think Mr T would have had enough available information to realise that 
something was wrong. And I also think the summary screen wouldve provided him with an 
opportunity to rectify it before the money was sent. 
For the payment to be made, Mr T wouldve had to click a button to confirm that all the 
details displayed in the transaction summary were correct. And Ive been provided with 
Citibanks internal notes which show that he did just that. If something didnt look right, then I 
wouldnt have expected to see that Mr T clicked the confirmation button. But he did, and in 
doing so Mr T gave an instruction to Citibank to proceed with the payment. 
Mr T has said there were some technical issues, specifically that his screen was flickering 
when he was inputting the payment details, which he thinks changed the currency between 
Euros and Pounds. Ive seen that Citibank followed this up with its technical team, who 
investigated, but didnt find that any such issue occurred. 
In any case, Mr T wouldve still had to press the confirmation button on the payment 
summary screen to agree that the payment details were correct  including the currency  
which he did. So, with that in mind, Im not persuaded there was any negligence on the part 
of Citibank. And Ive seen nothing to make me think it acted unreasonably by taking Mr Ts 
instructions in good faith.
I know Mr T has pointed out historical issues with Citibanks system, and he feels these 
instances support his belief that something outside of his control caused things to go wrong. But theres no evidence to show that those issues  or anything similar  had any bearing on 
what happened here. Ultimately, Ive not been provided with anything which would lead me 
to conclude that technical issues were the cause. So, overall, I cant fairly determine that 
Citibank did something wrong and is to blame for the transfer being sent in Pounds rather 
than Euros. It follows that I dont require it to pay Mr T the compensation that hes asked for. 
To resolve the complaint, Citibank has offered to refund Mr T the €1,344.61 that it charged 
him. It wasnt obliged to do that, so I think its a very fair offer and is more than Id deem to 
be reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr T now wishes to accept the offer, then he can 
contact Citibank directly.
 
I understand what Ive set out wont be the answer Mr T was hoping for, and I know how 
strongly he feels about the matter. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that 
Citibank has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, it follows that I dont require it to take 
any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman