DRN-2576929
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money it lost as the 
result of a scam. Mr and Mrs G, directors of C, represent it in bringing this complaint.
Lloyds says it is not liable for the loss because C authorised the payment  and it could not 
reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money from the payee bank.
  
What happened
It is common ground that C authorised the scam payment of £1,224.82. Mrs G was deceived 
by a fake advert on a legitimate international property rental website and entered into 
discussions with a scammer about a property in Spain. Mrs G was further deceived into 
making the payment from Cs account via a link the scammer provided in an email. This 
appeared to originate from a reputable and well-known travel website, but that website had 
in fact been cloned. 
The initial payment instruction failed, and Lloyds explains this was due to the instruction 
being submitted using the wrong method for an international payment to an account in 
Lithuania. Mrs G called Lloyds, and as a result of that discussion the payment was 
successfully sent. When the scam later came to light, no funds were recoverable from the 
destination account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this 
complaint, for the following reasons.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though C was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. Mrs G used her security credentials to request the payment on Cs 
behalf. So, although C did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of its account, C is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Lloyds disputes that fraud triggers existed here. It says the transaction was unremarkable  
it therefore had no reason for concern about the risk of financial harm.
However, Lloyds did speak to Mrs G about the transaction before the payment was 
ultimately sent. Mrs G recalls that when she spoke to Lloyds during that phone conversation, 
she told the call handler the purpose of the payment. Mrs G says she also clearly recalls 
asking the call handler if she should be concerned about the payment  particularly in light of 
it being seemingly blocked by Lloyds. Mrs G recalls the call handler reassured her that she 
neednt have concerns about the payment and that Lloyds would take the necessary steps to 
push the payment through.
Unfortunately, Lloyds says it has not retained a copy of that call or specifically what might 
have been discussed. 
As I cant know for certain what was discussed in the call, I have considered what seems 
most likely to me given the available evidence  including Mrs Gs recollections. I am 
persuaded by her testimony that the discussion she recalls about the nature of the 
transaction did take place. Her recollections seem to me consistent and plausible. Mrs G has 
provided contemporaneous records indicating the call duration was around thirty minutes  
a duration suggesting more than a momentary interaction. I see no compelling reason to 
doubt what she remembers here.
On balance I consider the key elements here were as follows. This payment was being 
made to a new payee, by means of an international payment, for a holiday rental in Spain 
yet being sent to a personal account in Lithuania. There had been an issue with the 
submission of the original payment instruction, and Mrs G was openly asking for advice 
about the legitimacy of the payment. Taken altogether, there was enough here for me to 
reasonably have expected Lloyds to do more to at least assure itself C wasnt at risk of 
financial harm before permitting the payment to be sent.
But none of the evidence I have seen persuades me that Lloyds did so. There is nothing to 
suggest that Lloyds staff asked Mrs G any appropriate questions about the transaction, or 
suggested steps to take to avoid the risk of fraud (specifically those steps it has 
subsequently said she was at fault for not taking).
This type of scam is sadly all too common and one with which Lloyds is familiar. If Lloyds 
staff had asked even some basic questions about the circumstances surrounding the 
payment e.g. asking how the payment information had been received (by following an 
email link) or why payment was being made by international bank transfer rather than by 
card payment through the travel websites own payment facility, I think enough concerns 
would have arisen to have caused Mrs G to at least check further into the matter before 
proceeding. Equally, in response to Mrs Gs query about whether the payment should cause 
her concern, rather than reassuring her, Lloyds should have suggested further steps she 
could take to validate it. And I think then she and/or Lloyds would have realised that 
something was amiss before it was too late. In other words, but for Lloyds failure to question 
or probeto an appropriate extentthe scam would probably not have succeeded. 
I have also considered whether C should bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
Mrs G acting on Cs behalf, was still totally in the dark and unaware of the deception. The 
scam unfolded in a convincing and persuasive manner  there was nothing specific about 
the information Mrs G had been sent that I consider should have caused her significant 
doubt  she believed she was making the transaction via well-known and reputable travel 
websites. Further, shed been reassured by a member of Lloyds staff during a call about the 
transaction. The bank here had a far greater level of knowledge and awareness of the scam 
risks involved.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied Lloyds should now fairly and reasonably reimburse C for 
the loss it suffered without any reduction. It is not clear how C would have used the money 
had it not been lost in this scam, but C has been deprived of any such use. I therefore find 
that Lloyds should also pay interest on the loss at 8% simple per annum, in compensation 
for being deprived of the use of these funds.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Lloyds Bank PLC  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay C £1224.82 within 28 days of receiving notification of its acceptance of my final 
decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of loss to 
the date of refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman