DRN-2308919
The complaint
Mr F has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr F complained to Nationwide his card details had been used for 
gambling transactions which hed not made. Nationwide contacted the gambling company 
involved (who Ill call B). They showed theyd got a copy of Mr Fs passport to open the 
account. Nationwide also note Mr F had a history of gambling with his card on this 
Nationwide account. They wouldnt agree to refund him.
Mr F brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. This included copies of online chats Mr F provided 
which he believed showed hed not made these transactions. He also told us the electricity 
bill used to verify one of the accounts was fake.
Our investigator noted Mr F didnt refer his concerns to Nationwide until more than 10 days 
after the fraud took place. Since a considerable amount of money had been taken from 
Mr Fs account and evidence showed Mr F had been checking his account status during this 
period, he found this surprising. He also noted subsequent gambling attempts a few days 
later were for the exact amount Mr F had in his account.
Overall he believed it was more than likely Mr F had made these transactions himself. He 
wasnt going to ask Nationwide to do anything further.
Mr F was unhappy with this outcome. He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for roughly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These primarily 
require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones 
fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
Im not going to cover all the points raised in the view in detail. The view of 1 September 
2020 explains the regulations which guide how we review these cases, as well as covering 
all the transactions involved in this complaint. Our investigators subsequent emails with 
Mr F also touch on other aspects and questions Mr F raised after seeing the initial view.
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters here and which impact the decision Im making. This simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ive covered the following issues in coming to my decision:
Mr F acknowledges he used his Nationwide account for regular gambling. Ive seen 
statements from 2019 and these clearly reflect this.
Mr F has told us the email address used to open some of the disputed gambling 
accounts isnt his. Its certainly true thats the case in terms of the email address Mr F 
has given to us. But its not unusual to see people using a number of different email 
addresses for different-related reasons. I also note the other email address uses 
common features comparable to the address Mr F has given us.
Mr F believes his passport details may have been compromised from one gambling 
website to enable them to be used with B. Im not sure I find this realistic although I 
havent ruled out a collusive member of staff.
Mr F has also given us evidence from a utility company to demonstrate he doesnt 
hold an account with them. He argues the bill used to set up the gambling account is 
therefore false. I note what Mr F has sent us about this. However I find it surprising 
that the electricity company would provide him with full name and address details for 
the customer who supposedly held this account. This surely would go against their 
data protection requirements.
Mr F didnt raise any concerns with Nationwide until 5 December after more than 
£10,000 worth of transactions debited his account 10 days or so earlier. However I 
can see from Nationwides records that Mr F was accessing his accounts almost 
daily around this period. I have to wonder why he didnt raise his concerns 
immediately particularly considering how much money was at stake. Mr F has told us 
he wouldnt have noticed the detail of the transactions but hed certainly have noticed 
the decline in his account balance.
Mr F also set up a new savings account with Nationwide on 28 November 2019 
which he arranged to fund. He also held another savings account with Nationwide 
which hed had for a number of years. A transfer of more than £3,300 was made on 
20 November 2019 from this account to his current account. This money allowed 
some of the disputed gambling transactions take place.
Mr F has told us one of the gambling companies involved (who Ill call S) 
acknowledged thered been fraud involved and refunded £1,400. In fact in 
correspondence with our investigator, S confirmed the deposits had been withdrawn 
and re-credited to their source before Mr F had contacted them. Theyd not made any 
judgement on whether fraud had been committed or not.
Subsequent attempts to spend money in Mr Fs current account were made on 
1 December 2019. These werent authorised by Nationwide. I note all these attempts 
were made only to spend the money available in the account. I see no reason why anyone other than Mr F would have been aware of this. As stated earlier, theres 
been no indication that there was other compromise of Mr Fs accounts.
Theres no dispute that gambling companies only credit the card accounts that 
gambling transactions were made with in the first place. This limits the chance of 
someone using another persons card details for gambling transactions unless they 
were able to access the account involved. Mr F hasnt suggested any other type of 
compromise has occurred.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr F in this case) authorised these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Fs card 
details, made these transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
accessed and manufactured Mr Fs details without his consent. This is difficult when I note 
any gambling winnings would always have credited Mr Fs account. Coupled with the 
information that whoever used Mr Fs card knew his balance to specifically attempt gambling 
transactions on 1 December that matched the available funds, this suggests to me its more 
likely Mr F authorised this use.
I appreciate Mr F is not going to agree with this outcome but overall I think this lays out the 
most likely scenario.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Mr F authorised these transactions. I 
wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman