DRN-1988199
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) recorded a default on his account. 
What happened
In October 2010, Mr Os credit card fell into arrears by a small amount. Mr O moved to 
Turkey between 2010 and 2014 and has explained he didnt use the card. The account 
balance attracted interest and fees. Halifax then defaulted the account in March 2014.
 
Mr O went to a mortgage advisor in December 2014. He says he wanted to purchase his 
housing association property. But he was informed his mortgage application would be 
unsuccessful because of the default. Mr O says he didnt know who had recorded the default 
because of the way it had been recorded.   
Halifax sold Mr Os account to a third party in June 2015 and they took over the debt.
Mr O says he only became aware that it was Halifax who had recorded the default in 2018. 
He complained to them and they removed the default in January 2019. They also paid £100 
to recognise that they had misspelt his address and he might not have received the default 
notice or final demand. 
Mr O also complained to Halifax in November 2019. Halifax issued their final response in 
February 2020. Mr O did not accept their response and contacted us. Our investigator felt 
that Halifax had resolved the complaint fairly and didnt ask them to do anything further. Mr 
O didnt agree, and the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken the relevant regulations into account. 
Halifax say they didnt default the account sooner because of a business decision not to 
default anyone with an outstanding balance of under £100. Mr O was in a small amount of 
arrears and most of the balance was made up of interest and charges. Three years had also 
passed between when the account fell into arrears and when it was defaulted. 
Halifax have accepted that the first line of Mr Os address was spelt incorrectly on his file 
and that this may have meant he did not receive the default notice or final demand letter. As 
a result, the account might have been unfairly defaulted.  
Mr O strongly believes if the account had not been defaulted, he would have been able to 
purchase the property in December 2014. He says the property value has since increased 
and he wants compensation to reflect this. 
Mr O also says he has been unfairly asked for supporting evidence because it wouldve 
been destroyed under data protection regulation. Ive taken this into consideration. Mr O has 
provided email correspondence with his mortgage advisor from December 2014. He has 
also explained a check was undertaken and he was told an application wouldnt be 
successful because of the default.
  
Whilst I agree that a default is something that a lender would consider, it is not the only 
factor. They will often consider a range of things when deciding whether to lend. From what I 
have seen, I cant say Mr Os application would have been successful had it not been for the 
default. 
Mr O says he didnt have time to sort the issue because he only had a small window of 
opportunity to purchase the property. But Mr O says he was told adverse information was 
affecting his mortgage application, and I would expect to see he had tried to resolve this at 
the time. Mr O says this wasnt possible because he had a lack of knowledge about who had 
recorded the default. He says it wasnt correctly recorded. 
I have reviewed the credit report which he requested in December 2014 and I cant see the 
default. Mr O says he has been informed that Halifax may not have reported to that 
particular credit reference agency at the time.
I can appreciate Mr Os frustration. However, under the legal principle of mitigation, Mr O 
should have taken reasonable steps to avoid or minimise any loss or harm arising from the 
default once he became aware of it. This doesnt change because the details werent 
showing on the credit report. For example, the details of who registered the default could 
have been obtained through reasonable enquiry. Mr O says the mortgage advisor told him 
that there was a default and he may also have got information from other credit reference 
agencies.
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Halifax should bear 
responsibility for Mr Os mortgage not proceeding, or any claim he seeks to bring the loss on 
a purchase that ultimately, he decided not to make.
 
Putting things right
Mr O has understandably been frustrated as he had adverse information on his credit file. In 
January 2019, Halifax bought back the account and wrote off the debt. They also deleted the 
record from Mr Os credit file and paid him £100. Im persuaded this sum appropriately 
recognises the trouble and upset. In my view this was a fair and reasonable response to Mr 
Os complaint.
 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has written off the debt, removed the default and 
paid Mr O £100. Ive decided this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I wont 
be asking them to do anything further.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman