DRN-2640517
The complaint
 Mr M complains Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) hasnt considered his pet insurance claim 
fairly
What happened
 
Mr M has a pet insurance policy for his dog  which Ill refer to as B. The policy is 
underwritten by Allianz. 
Mr M initially took out the policy in June 2015 and its been renewed each year since. In 
February 2018, B suffered injuries as a result of being attacked by another dog. At the time, 
sliding patella was noted as a potential problem but treatment was not necessary. 
Later in 2020, B was diagnosed with having suffered a cruciate ligament rupture in his left 
hind leg and surgery was needed to repair it. Initially, Allianz declined the claim. It said the 
cruciate ligament rupture was linked to the sliding patella, and that more than 12 months had 
passed since the first clinical signs were noticed and so, treatment wouldnt be covered. 
However, upon reviewing further information from Bs vet  which explained the cruciate 
ligament rupture was a separate condition and not linked to the sliding patella  Allianz 
agreed to cover the cost of treatment to repair the cruciate ligament. 
Allianz also offered £100 compensation to reflect the inconvenience itd caused by declining 
the claim entirely and not logging a complaint when it should have.
When B had surgery to repair the cruciate ligament, the vet also attended to the luxating 
patella. Allianz said it would only cover treatment costs related to the cruciate ligament, and 
not the luxating patella. It said this amounted to 50% of the treatment cost.  
The claim totalled £1,421.00. Allianz agreed to cover half the claim  amounting to £634.25 
after deducting excess. 
Mr M thinks this is unfair. He said Allianz should pay more as treating the patella luxation 
only added 10% more to the treatment cost of the total surgery. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She was satisfied Bs vet had suitably evidenced 
that a greater proportion of surgical time was attributable to repairing the cruciate ligament 
as opposed to the patella luxation. Bs vet said the cost to treat the cruciate ligament on its 
own would have been £1,171.34. So, she didnt think it was fair for Allianz to pay only 50% 
and instead said it needed to pay an additional £537.09  making the claim total £1,171.34.
Allianz disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the comments provided by the veterinarians for both parties to determine 
whether its fair to ask Allianz to cover more than half the treatment cost. 
Bs vet has said:
Correcting either the cruciate ligament rupture or luxating patella surgically in the 
absence of the other condition would cost significantly more than half of the surgery 
cost you incurred for having the combined surgeryHaving the cruciate repaired 
alone would likely have required 60 minutes of surgical time (instead of 80), with all 
other costs being the same as in your invoice. 
Bs vet has been able to provide specific details regarding the surgical times and how this 
was reflected in the treatment costs. And hes explained that had Bs surgery been solely to 
repair the cruciate ligament, it wouldve cost £1,171.34. 
Im satisfied the evidence provided by Bs veterinarian is credible and Im persuaded by it 
given the details he provided, that he carried out the surgery and his knowledge as Bs vet 
and clinical director with extensive qualifications. 
Ive looked at the invoice for Bs treatment, and from what Ive seen Im satisfied there arent 
any additional items or costs  aside from the additional surgical time to attend to the 
luxating patella  which wouldnt have been required had the surgery been solely to repair 
the cruciate ligament. 
Allianz argues that the luxating patella and cruciate ligament were of equal seriousness and 
so its not fair to ask it to pay more than half the treatment costs. It disagrees that the issue 
with Bs patella was one that didnt necessitate treatment -its pointed to Bs medical history 
which it considers shows that treatment had been recommended prior. Allianz also 
disagrees that surgery to the patella could be considered an add-on and disputes that a 
greater proportion of the surgical time should be attributed to repairing the cruciate ligament 
rupture. 
But Im persuaded from the evidence Ive seen, the primary reason for surgery was to fix the 
cruciate ligament, and that surgery for this condition presented an opportunity to have the 
luxating patella repaired at the same time.
Putting things right
Had the surgery been solely for the purpose of repairing the cruciate ligament, the cost of 
treatment would have been £1,171.34. And by asking Allianz to pay this Im not directing it to 
do more than what is required of it had the treatment been solely for the cruciate ligament 
repair under the terms of the policy.  
Allianz has already paid £634.25 and so it needs to pay an additional £537.09. I note Allianz 
has already offered £100 compensation and I think this fairly reflects the difficulties it caused 
by declining the entire claim in error and for not dealing with Mr Ms complaint as promptly as 
it should have. 
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc must:
- Pay £537.09 plus 8% simple interest* per year to be added to this from the date the 
claim was made to the date Allianz Insurance Plc makes payment. 
- Pay £100 compensation if its not already done so. 
* If Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman