DRN-2009800
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
In 1996, Mr M took out a mortgage with PPI. The policy protected his mortgage repayments 
and provided Mr M with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Mr M mainly said that PPI wasnt discussed when he applied for his mortgage and he wasnt 
aware it was optional and couldve been refused. He told us that he didnt ask for or need 
PPI and said it wasnt required as he was in a secure job and already covered financially in 
the event of sickness through his employer for at least 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Lloyds couldnt confirm how it sold the PPI, Mr M told us he recalled arranging his 
mortgage during a meeting when he spoke with a Lloyds advisor. So I think thats most 
likely what happened. 
I can see that theres a section on Mr Ms mortgage application where it asks him to tick yes 
or no boxes to say if he wants to apply for PPI. The yes box is ticked on the form Mr M 
signed. And hes answered questions on the form by completing various tick boxes to check 
that he was eligible for the cover hed said he wanted.
As this happened so long ago, its easy to understand how Mr M couldve forgotten some of 
these details now. And I cant be sure exactly what was discussed during his meeting at the 
bank or how PPI was explained to him. 
But the evidence isnt strong enough for me safely to say that Mr M wouldnt have known 
about or didnt ask for PPI, just based on what he remembers now. 
On balance, I think Lloyds made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to have 
it.
As Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr M, it said it would treat this as an advised 
sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to him. This means Lloyds not only had 
to give Mr M important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps 
to make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for him. So Ive looked at Mr Ms 
complaint with this in mind. 
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr M took out 
PPI. But it has provided details from a policy document which was in use shortly afterwards 
 so I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr M took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions. So I think the policy would likely have covered Mr M in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
It doesnt look to me as if the PPI was unsuitable for him based on what Mr M says about his 
circumstances at the time. 
I've taken into account what Mr M told us about his likely sick pay entitlement  and I can 
see that his employer appears to have offered good work benefits. PPI wouldve paid out in 
full for the whole 12 months on top of Mr Ms work benefits. So I think the policy offered him 
a valuable benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time, especially if he had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.
Also, the policy couldve paid a benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr M was 
unemployed. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. Redundancy benefits wouldnt have 
helped him if hed been off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any 
redundancy money Mr M mightve got if hed lost his job, giving Mr M some additional 
financial security in those circumstances.
I dont know if Mr M wouldve always had savings he couldve relied on if hed needed to 
make a claim. Its possible that he used money he had saved in the bank to help with moving 
costs. And if he didnt put all his savings towards keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think 
hed have valued the protection PPI offered if it meant he could keep his savings intact to 
provide financial security. 
So, I dont think that Mr Ms circumstances at the time meant the PPI was unsuitable. I think 
the policy provided him with a useful benefit. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mr Ms case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to have PPI.
Mr M was eligible for the policy. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr M at the time he bought the policy. But he 
took out PPI when he didnt have to so he seems to have wanted the cover and the policy 
appears to have been affordable for him. 
Mr Ms mortgage was a big financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided 
a dependable means of ensuring his monthly mortgage repayments were protected even if 
he couldnt work. So, I can see why Mr M mightve felt PPI was useful. Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided. On balance I think he wouldve still taken out the 
policy.  
I've taken into account everything Mr M mentioned in response to our adjudicators view and 
I can see that our adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Theres nothing more 
I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. In my decision I've concentrated 
on dealing with the main points raised that affect the outcome of this complaint. I appreciate 
that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
 Looked at overall, it doesnt look as if Mr M has lost out as a result of anything Lloyds did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman