DRN-2374510
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K insurance Limited (UKI) have unfairly handled a legal expenses 
claim he made under his commercial landlord insurance policy.
For the purposes of this decision, any reference to UKI includes that of its agents or 
representatives unless specified.
What happened
The events that surround this complaint are well known to both parties. For this reason Ive 
summarised whats happened below. 
Mr W owns a property and had let it to tenants for around ten years through a letting 
agency. At the end of the lease he visited the property and discovered it was in a 
state of disrepair. 
Mr W raised this with UKI in June 2019. Following some back and forth UKI 
appointed solicitors (Company A) to assess the claims in November 2019. This 
included one claim against the letting agent for breach of contract, and a separate 
claim against the tenants who Mr W says caused the damage.
In January 2019 Company A told Mr W that his claims didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success so it wouldnt proceed with the claim. 
Mr C complained, and UKI said Company A made its decision within a reasonable 
timeframe, and it was right for UKI to follow its solicitors advice.
UKI said its policy did not guarantee an outcome of litigation or provide cover for the 
debt owed, but it invited Mr W to provide a barristers opinion if he disagreed. It said if 
the opinion said the prospects of the case were 51% or above, it would reimburse 
him for the opinion.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said the outcome of the claim was 
unfair and that he had key video evidence that showed the extent of the damage and 
demonstrated the letting agent hadnt met their duties of regular inspections. He said 
as a result he had to sell the property at auction for a lower value.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said the legal expenses part of the policy would be provided if there were 
reasonable prospects of success  which it defined as 51% or greater. 
The investigator said there was no dispute about the condition or damage to the 
property, only whether the claim had reasonable prospects. He said UKI had 
reasonably provided a solicitors opinion to support its decisions. And UKIs offer to 
reconsider on receipt of a barristers opinion was fair. 
Mr W disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For this claim to be successful under Mr Ws policy  there must be reasonable 
prospects of success, which the policy terms define as a 51% chance that the 
Insured Person will recover losses or damages. 
UKI hasnt disputed that Mr Ws property was damaged in the way he has described 
 nor that his claims werent valid. Only that the chances of success on both claims 
are below the required 51% that the policy requires. 
UKI has provided legal opinion on Mr Ws claims, and its shared this with him. This 
advice is clear in saying the prospects of success for his claims were below 51% and 
sets out the reasons for this. So, Im satisfied UKI declined the claims fairly in light of 
the evidence available.
UKI has said it would reconsider the matter if Mr W were able to provide a barristers 
opinion that said the prospects of success were above 51%, and if he provided this it 
would cover associated costs of obtaining it. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman