DRN-3238137
The complaint
Mr H complained that Progressive Money Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided 
him with unaffordable lending.
What happened
Progressive provided a loan to Mr H as follows:
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentAmount 
repayableDate repaid
May 2017 £5,000 48 £243.99 £11,711.12 23/04/2019
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Progressive shouldnt 
have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was recommending that the 
complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating what Progressive should 
do to put things right. 
Progressive disagreed. It mainly said that using the loans for debt consolidation  in other 
words, to repay other debt  benefitted Mr H and improved his financial situation overall. It 
also said that his repayment record didnt suggest any affordability issues and Mr H 
benefitted from an interest rebate when he repaid the loan early.  
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Hs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also require the lender to 
find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information Progressive gathered when it agreed to provide the loans. 
Alongside asking Mr H about his income and regular monthly outgoings, and looking at 
information on bank statements, Progressive also carried out its own credit checks to 
understand his credit history and current credit commitments. Progressive relied on a payslip 
which showed that Mr Hs most recent  pay was around £1,493 and also noted that his total 
income was boosted by an extra £260 or so per month from a lodger. 
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks Progressive did were broadly proportionate. But 
I think Progressive should have been concerned to see that when Mr H applied for the loan, 
the credit report it obtained for him suggested he was in serious financial difficulty. He owed 
more than £7,500 on a number of credit cards that were all close to their limit and had been 
stuck around that level for the whole of the 12 months period reported on in the credit report 
Progressive obtained. He had outstanding unsecured loans, including one taken out just a 
couple of months earlier as well as a new credit card he had just acquired and had yet to 
use. He was substantially overdrawn at the bank and Mr H had only got back on top of his 
mortgage 6 months earlier after falling into arrears. There were other signs of payment 
problems on his record including a delinquent payday loan. It was apparent that Mr H had a 
long track record of reliance on taking out and using expensive credit. Not including his 
mortgage, Mr H owed £13,707. 
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think Progressive took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mr Hs overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
Progressives checks showed that Mr H needed to pay approximately £867 in total each 
month in order to run his active credit accounts effectively (not including any mortgage). 
So it was evident that his unsecured debt repayments cost Mr H around half of the total 
income Progressive thought Mr H could rely on.
Such a high level of debt relative to income is one of the hallmarks of someone in serious 
financial difficulty  and he still needed to pay £380 per month towards his mortgage, plus an 
extra £50 towards the arrears on this account. 
I also think the figures Progressive relied on reflected the best possible case scenario. I say 
this because I dont think it was reasonable for Progressive to rely on a higher income figure 
it saw for the most recent month as necessarily indicative of the income Mr H could expect to 
earn every month  especially bearing in mind that its own account scoring system used 
different measures to work out what would be a reliable indicator of earnings and recorded a 
figure of £1,245. 
Even with additional income from a lodger (which Im mindful also wasnt something that 
could be guaranteed over the loan term) this would mean that Mr Hs finances were most 
likely under even more stress than Progressives income and expenditure calculations 
suggested.
As well as this, I think Progressive shouldve taken into account that the gambling it saw on 
Mr Hs bank statements, bearing in mind his account was boosted by expensive credit and still stuck in overdraft, further pointed to the real risk that he wouldnt be able to pay this loan 
in a sustainable way. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for Progressive to make a fair decision to 
lend.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Mr H wasnt managing 
his money well and all the signs were that his finances were, in reality, under significant 
stress and his debt had become unmanageable. 
I dont think Progressive was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Mr H would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
I've taken into account that Progressive applied part of the loan towards debt consolidation 
and reduced Mr Hs credit balance by around £3,644. But I think the scale of Mr Hs overall 
debt compared to the much lesser value of the loan and the extent of his evident reliance on 
taking out expensive credit would suggest that he would remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. 
Also, bearing in mind that Mr H wasnt using all the loan for debt consolidation, the extra 
repayment hed need to make for this loan on top of the debt Progressive saw Mr H would 
still be responsible for paying (which it worked out would still cost £418) meant Mr H needed 
to pay a significant portion of his income towards credit. 
And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, Progressive shouldve realised that Mr H would 
likely struggle to repay this loan  especially bearing in mind the 48 month loan term.
The fact that Mr H repaid the loan early doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a way that 
was sustainably affordable for him. 
I've taken carefully into account everything Progressive said in response to our 
adjudicators view, but this makes no overall difference to the outcome. Thinking about all 
the information Progressive had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it made a fair 
lending decision based on the information in front of it when it provided this loan. 
I dont think Progressive was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr H so this is why Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr H shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
Progressive should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amountif this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
whilst its fair that Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about 
a loan that was unfairly provided. So Progressive should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to deduct tax from this interest. Progressive 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to take the steps I've set 
out above to put things right for Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman