DRN-1686973
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent his international payment to the wrong account 
number and processed it on the incorrect day. Hed like his funds repaid and compensation 
in recognition of the impact caused. 
What happened
Mr P has an account with Lloyds. 
In October 2019 Mr P visited his local branch to make an international transfer. He says on 
the 4 October 2019 he asked the Lloyds member of staff to make one international transfer 
for £480 to an account in Nigeria. But the payment was instead made to an account in Benin 
and wasnt transferred on the correct date  he expected the payment to be carried out on 
the 4 October 2019 but it wasnt made until the 7 October 2019. He also explained Lloyds 
had incorrectly sent him a letter advising his payment hadnt processed when he had 
evidence it did. Because of Lloyds not sending the payment correctly he says he also 
incurred a £370 charge. 
Lloyds investigated Mr Ps complaint but concluded they hadnt done anything wrong. The 
bank explained that Mr P asked to make two transfers on the 5 October 2019  but after 
initially agreeing to both transactions he asked for the first one to be cancelled. The Lloyds 
member requested this, but it wasnt possible. Lloyds said when Mr P contacted the bank to 
advise the payment had been sent to the wrong account they contacted the receiving bank, 
Ill call bank B. But as the money had been credited to the correct payee and account 
number bank B said they wouldnt return the funds. 
As Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint he contacted our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds 
needed to do anything further. In summary she thought that Lloyds had sent the money to 
the correct account and attempted to recover the funds, but because bank B confirmed they 
were credited to the correct payee and account there was nothing further they could do. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
Only one transaction was made and it was sent to the wrong account and country.
The payment should have been processed on the 4 October 2019.
 
As Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Mr P says that his visited a Lloyds branch on the 4 October 2019 to ask for one payment to 
be made to an account in Nigeria. Ive looked at the evidence Lloyds provided, and Im afraid 
I dont think this is the most likely thing to have happened here. Lloyds have shown that two 
international payments were set up on the 5 October 2019, the first at 10:27am to an 
account in Benin and one at 10:31am to one in Nigeria  both for £480. And Im satisfied that 
the first payment was successfully sent to the correct account on Monday 7 October. Lloyds 
have a responsibility under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps account to process a payment he authorises them to make  and Im 
satisfied the payment was authorised via Chip and PIN and they followed their terms here. 
Ive also looked at Lloyds rules regarding the sending of an international payment and they 
state internationals payments will be processed on the same business day if they are 
requested before 2pm. If it isnt a business day theyll be processed on the next working day. 
I appreciate that Mr P says he requested the payment on the 4 October 2019, but as Ive 
explained above the evidence indicates Mr P requested both transactions on the morning of 
the 5 October 2019  a Saturday and therefore not a business day  and these were both 
then attempted, with the first being successful, on the next working day. 
Mr P has also raised that Lloyds incorrectly sent him a letter telling him the payment hadnt 
been sent, and yet £480 had been debited from his account. Lloyds have argued this 
referred to the second payment to Nigeria, and because Mr P didnt have sufficient funds the 
payment wasnt sent. Ive looked at the evidence provided by Lloyds and Mr P  and I can 
see that letter sent to Mr P has the same reference number as the second payment. Looking 
at Mr Ps bank statement Im satisfied this makes sense  after the first payment was 
processed on the 7 October 2019 Mr P had less than £480 left in his account, meaning the 
second payment of £480 couldn't be processed.
Ive also thought about Mr Ps final point  about the recovery of the funds. Id expect Lloyds 
to make contact with bank B to confirm if the payee matches their records and whether the 
receiving bank has incorrectly received the funds. I can see Lloyds contacted bank B and 
received confirmation from them on the 17 October 2019 to say the payee matches the 
request and the funds were correctly credited on the 8 October 2019.
In conclusion Im satisfied that Lloyds sent Mr Ps transfer to the correct account  as per his 
payment instruction  and attempted to recover his funds. And I dont think they need to do 
anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman