DRN-1831814
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she didnt authorise the Direct Debit or ask for the Plumbing and 
Drainage policy with Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve). Although Mrs Bs son 
represented her in this matter, for ease Im just going to refer to Mrs B.
What happened
Homeserve set up a Plumbing and Drainage policy for Mrs B but she had no recollection of 
authorising Direct Debit payments for it or receiving any policy documentation. She 
cancelled the policy and asked Homeserve to refund all the payments.
Homeserve sent a cheque which refunded the part payment for the remainder of that year. It 
said Mrs B had taken out the policy 12 years earlier and rejected her request for a refund.
Mrs B asked Homeserve to prove shed agreed to the policy and authorised the Direct Debit 
payments. Homeserve was only able to provide promotional material from around that time. 
But it sent her a copy of her latest renewal letter and a print showing that renewal letters had 
been issued each year. Homeserve sent another cheque to Mrs B to cover the full years 
payment.
Mrs B says she didnt receive any correspondence from Homeserve throughout the term of 
the policy. She told Homeserve she would make an indemnity claim through her bank and 
she returned both cheques.
Our investigator said that the complaint would ordinarily fall outside jurisdiction because of 
the time that has passed, but Homeserve consented to this investigation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought it was more likely than not that Mrs 
B had agreed to the policy during a three-month promotion. He explained that the Direct 
Debit was set up three months after the policy started, which tied in with the promotion on at 
that time. Our investigator noted that the address on the policy documentation was correct 
and the annual Direct Debit payments wouldve appeared on Mrs Bs bank statements. 
While Homeserve couldnt prove that Mrs B took out the policy, our investigator didnt think 
that was unreasonable after 12 years.
Homeserve provided the cover, so our investigator didnt think it would be fair to return the 
payments to Mrs B. He explained that Mrs Bs indemnity claim was a separate matter 
between her and her bank.
Mrs B didnt agree. She thought that too much weight had been placed on what Homeserve 
said and that consideration hadnt been given to her account that she didnt receive any 
correspondence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs B, but Ill 
explain why.
Where theres a dispute about the set up of a policy, ordinarily I would expect the business 
to provide evidence that the policyholder agreed to it. Homeserve hasnt provided such 
evidence. But, as it set up the policy over 12 years ago, I dont think its surprising or 
unreasonable that it cant provide that evidence. 
What Homeserve has provided is a copy of the promotional material from that time. It shows 
that a three-month free offer of the policy was available. Mrs Bs Homeserve account shows 
that the Direct Debit was set up to collect payment three months after the policy start date. 
This suggests to me that she agreed to the three-month free offer. While Mrs B has no 
recollection of agreeing to it, Homeserve set up the policy using the correct details for her. 
On balance, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that Mrs B agreed to the policy and, 
therefore, the Direct Debit payment. 
Mrs B says she doesnt recall receiving any documentation from Homeserve and she thinks 
she wouldve noticed the prominent logo. I understand she is quite meticulous about keeping 
paperwork and I have no reason to doubt what Mrs B says. But I must look at whether 
Homeserve did anything wrong, and I dont think it did. 
Homeserve provided a print of its system showing the letters generated each year at policy 
renewal. The evidence shows the letters were printed and its reasonable to assume that 
they were also posted. The correspondence details are correct for Mrs B. Based on this 
information, it would be difficult for me to conclude that none of the renewal letters over 12 
years were sent to Mrs B. 
It may be that the logo on Homeserves letters was similar to another service Mrs B used, or 
the letters appeared to be junk mail and she discarded them. The fact of the matter is I dont 
know why Mrs B didnt receive the letters or, if she did receive them, why she didnt notice 
them.  I wish I could help further with that point. But, as Ive said, I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Homeserve did anything wrong.
Mrs B says she wouldve seen the Direct Debit payment leaving her bank account each 
year. It was directly after a payment for boiler cover so she says she assumed the two 
payments were linked. I think thats a reasonable explanation for why the policy continued, 
unnoticed, for so many years. But I cant hold Homeserve responsible for Mrs Bs 
assumptions about payments from her bank account. 
Homeserve refunded a part-year payment and then increased that payment to £120. I think 
that was fair given that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Im aware Mrs B returned 
both cheques because shes making an indemnity claim through her bank and thats a 
separate matter.  If Mrs B changes her mind and wishes to accept the payment now, she will 
need to contact Homeserve directly.
Im sorry that Mrs B feels we have placed more weight on Homeserves evidence. Id like to 
reassure her that if I thought Homeserve had done something wrong I wouldve asked it to 
put matters right. I also sympathise with Mrs B because its clear to me that she didnt realise she had a policy with Homeserve. But in the absence of any evidence to suggest 
Homeserve provided the service without her authority, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman