DRN-1447401
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) changed her fee-paying First 
Additions packaged bank account to an account with a fee-paying Tech pack, without her 
consent.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it changed Mrs Ps account. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong 
when it changed Mrs Ps account to a fee-free account with a Tech pack added. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision.
I should start by saying that Barclays didnt sell Mrs P a further packaged account in 
December 2015. It chose to withdraw the First Additions account at this stage. And Barclays 
was entitled to do this because choosing what products it wants to offer is a legitimate 
exercise of its commercial judgement. So I cant say that Barclays was wrong to have 
withdrawn the First Additions account or that it had to continue providing it to Mrs P.
When Barclays withdrew the First Additions account, it moved all account holders that had 
this account on to a fee-free account with a Tech pack. I understand this was because the 
benefits on the Tech pack most closely matched the ones that were on the First Additions 
account  so those who were relying on the insurance benefits continued to receive similar 
cover. As this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account Barclays didnt need to get Mrs 
Ps agreement before making this change. What Barclays did have to do was to notify Mrs P 
about the upcoming changes to her account, to provide her with the opportunity to opt out of 
the Tech Pack if she didnt want it to be added to her account.
Barclays says that in September 2015, it wrote to Mrs P to say that the First Additions 
account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Mrs Ps account 
would be changed to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech pack - for an increased monthly 
fee. Barclays says it sent a follow up letter to Mrs P in December 2015 to confirm that her 
account had changed.
Mrs P says that she didnt receive these letters. But Barclays has provided a copy of the 
letters it sent to Mrs P, and the letters appear to have been sent to the correct address for 
Mrs P. And Barclays has no returned mail recorded for Mrs P from 2015. 
As most correctly addressed mail is delivered, I think its more likely than not that the letters 
were delivered. Furthermore, Barclays says that as Mrs P had access to online banking, it 
says that all letters posted to her couldve also been accessed by Mrs P when using online 
banking as well.
Turning to the contents of the letters, they explained that Mrs Ps account will be changed 
from a packaged bank account to a fee-free account with a Tech pack added on. It explained 
the differences in cover on the insurance benefits between the existing First Additions 
account and the Tech pack. It also explained that the monthly fee will increase from £6.50 to 
£9.50 a month. The letters went on to explain the options available to Mrs P, including doing 
nothing if she was happy with the changes and what she should do if she wasnt happy with 
the changes being made to the account. 
Mrs P says that as Barclays accepted that the First Additions account had been mis-sold, 
then it should also refund the fees she paid to have the Tech pack. Ive carefully considered 
what Mrs P has said about this. But I think Barclays made it clear to Mrs P in 2015 that the 
Tech Pack wasnt compulsory and that she couldve chosen not to have it added to her 
account if she didnt want it. And I think Barclays gave Mrs P enough time to take action 
before the changes were due to take place. So although the First Additions mayve been 
mis-sold, I think Barclays provided Mrs P with enough information in 2015, to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether to continue with a Tech Pack or not.
So based on what both parties have said and provided, I think Barclays gave Mrs P sufficient 
notice that the Tech Pack was being added to her account and the option to continue without 
it. So I dont think it is appropriate to require Barclays to refund the Tech Pack fees in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman