DRN-4091020
The complaint
Mr K complains that Epayments Systems Ltd have unfairly prevented him from gaining 
access to his funds. Hed like the funds released to him and compensation.
What happened
The facts of this case arent in dispute  so Ill only briefly go over them here. Mr K held 
money in his Epayments account. In February 2020 Epayments were obliged by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to stop processing transactions. This meant Mr K couldnt 
access the money in the account.
Mr K complained about this to our service. One of our investigators thought it should 
succeed  saying that the restrictions were ultimately the responsibility of Epayments. He 
suggested the money be refunded, along with 8% simple interest from the point of the block 
to the date of settlement. He also asked Epayments to cover any charges involved and pay 
Mr K £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays.
This was accepted by Mr K, but Epayments declined. Instead, they offered to pay Mr K £750 
to resolve the complaint overall. Mr K declined this offer.
Epayments said that their terms allowed them to withhold funds. They said as an electronic 
money institution (EMI) they cannot pay interest. They felt to award 8% interest, our service 
would have to be satisfied that Mr K would not have put these funds either not with another 
EMI, or with an investment generating returns of that amount. They also felt such an award 
would interfere with the winding down of their business.
Currently Epayments have said they are working on sending Mr K his funds, after having 
received some Know Your Customer information from him. But as no agreement could be 
reached on the complaint it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The restrictions placed on Epayments by the FCA have been widely publicised, so I dont 
need to discuss them in detail here. I accept that Epayments were not allowed to process 
transactions from Mr Ks account since February 2020, but ultimately this is down to the 
failing in Epayments anti-money laundering controls.
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr K has done anything that would lead to his account being 
restricted, or that hes not entitled to the funds in his account. So, Im satisfied the reason he 
couldnt access his funds is down to the failings of Epayments, which I see as unfair.
Epayments have now said theyre working on returning his funds, but hes without the use of 
them for a considerable period. I dont see this as fair or reasonable, so its right that 
Epayments compensated him accordingly. The investigator suggested 8% interest  which is 
what our service usually awards when people have been unfairly denied access to their 
money.
Ive considered Epayments arguments against this. I accept theres no specific losses  
investment or otherwise  that Mr K has given us. If there were its likely I would award those 
losses. Instead, the 8% award in intended to reflect the loss of the use of the funds. Not 
having access to the considerable funds he held with Epayments will have affected his life 
and financial decisions over the several years its taken to resolve this situation. Its not going 
to be possible to go back and rework all these financial decisions.
The 8% interest award is intended to reflect the cost of being deprived these funds. Its also 
in line with the statutory interest awarded on judgement debts. So, Im satisfied its 
appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand Epayments are still working on sending the funds back to Mr K, and he should 
cooperate with them as best he can if they require information to return, he funds to him. 
When the funds are returned, Epayments must ensure that they or their partners do not 
charge any fees for conversion or transfer.
In terms of the non-financial impact on Mr K of not having access to his funds, I can 
understand it would be incredibly frustrating to not have access to his funds and no real 
timescale on having access to them again. Overall, Im satisfied this would be worth 
compensation and I see £150 as a fair amount.
Lastly, its not my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of their business  and 
thats not the role of our service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to 
resolve individual complaints between businesses and their customers, based on the 
individual facts of the complaint. Based on the facts of Mr Ks case, Im satisfied that it is fair 
for Epayments to redress him as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Epayments Systems Ltd must:
Refund the remaining funds in Mr Ks account.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the balance of his account from 
11 February 2020 to the date the funds are made available to Mr K.
Refund and currency conversion fees, or other fees and charges applied during the 
refund process
Pay him £150 compensation
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell them Mr K has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, at a rate of 8% simple 
interest per year.
If Epayments is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest award, they 
should tell Mr K how much has been deducted and provide a certificate showing so if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Thom BennettOmbudsman