DRN-1864757
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the settlement he received following a travel insurance claim he 
made to Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
(Mapfre).
What happened
Mr C was returning from a holiday abroad and lost a Tilley hat. The hat had pockets 
which he says contained reading glasses, sun glasses, sterling and foreign currency. He 
contacted Mapfre and completed a claim form. On the personal belongings section of the 
form Mr C said the hat and sunglasses were presents and cost £70 and £125 respectively. 
Mr C listed the reading glasses, but didnt provide a figure for how much they cost. In the lost 
money section Mr C recorded hed lost £100 and 400 Turkish lira.
Mapfre asked Mr C for evidence and later sent him a letter setting out the settlement 
figure. Mapfre accepted the claim for sunglasses and the hat, but deduced 20% for each. It 
said the policy allowed them to deduct 10% for wear and tear and a further 10% because Mr 
C was unable to provide receipts. Mapfre then deducted the relevant £100 excess. Mapfre 
didnt mention the reading glasses Mr C claimed for. In relation to the lost cash, Mapfre 
agreed to pay £100 and the foreign currency claimed, less the excess.
Mr C was unhappy with the settlement figure and called Mapfre. He discussed the fact 
no payment had been made for his reading glasses. The call handlers went through 
each aspect of Mr Cs claim with him. In the call Mr C gave different amounts of lost cash to 
the amounts stated on the claim form. As a result Mapfre said hed exaggerated his claim, 
so they wouldnt consider his claim for his lost reading glasses.
As Mr C was unhappy with the settlement he received he brought a complaint to this 
service. The investigator who considered it didnt uphold it. She said Mapfre calculated 
the settlement figure correctly and acted reasonably in not meeting Mr Cs claim for his 
lost reading glasses. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so 
his complaint was passed to me to review. I issued my provisional decision on 18 March 
2020. I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive provisionally 
decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I need to decide if I think Mapfre have correctly applied the terms of Mr Cs policy and 
acted reasonably in deciding how much to pay him for his claim. To do so, Ill look at Mr Cs 
claim under the sections of the policy that apply.
Personal money
Mapfre says Mr C has exaggerated his claim for money and as a result they wont 
consider his claim for reading glasses. They say this based on a call Mr C made after he 
received the settlement letter. Ive listened to the call, during which Mr C was transferred to different handlers. Mr C said he didnt understand how the settlement figure had been 
reached, and discussed the fact his glasses cost around £310 and hed lost other items. The 
call handler asked Mr C to go through each item he claimed for. Mr C said Mapfre had all of 
his documents and it was clear he was relying on his memory in giving figures. Mr C said 
hed lost £2/300 and 30/40,000 lira, which he thought was about £70. When talking to a 
different call handler later in the call he referred to £300 and 40,000 lira.
On his claim form Mr C recorded that he took £200 cash and 20,000 Turkish lira away 
with him. He also said he lost £100 cash and 400 Turkish lira. Im persuaded there was 
some confusion about the amount of money Mr C was claimed, but I dont believe he 
deliberately tried to claim for more than he was entitled to. In any event Mr Cs bronze policy 
has a personal money limit of £300, and within that a cash limit of £150. The personal 
money section also includes an excess of £100. So Mr C could never receive more than 
£150 for loss or theft of cash.
I believe its fair to conclude Mr C lost 40,000 Turkish lira, which Mapfre have 
calculated works out to be £52 at the relevant time. Mr C wrote on his claim form hed taken 
£200 away with him and lost £100. Im aware hes later used different figures, but Im more 
persuaded by those on the claim form, as they were written soon after the loss and Mr C had 
the opportunity to think about the figures. This means the total cash Mr C lost was £152, 
which is subject to an excess of £100. This is below the cash limit of £150. Mapfre have 
already paid Mr C this sum, so Im not asking them to do anything more.
Personal belongings
Under this section Mr C has claimed for a hat, reading glasses and sunglasses. The hat 
and sunglasses were gifts, but Mr C has provided a handwritten note from a store saying 
what it would cost to replace them. Although Mr C didnt add a figure for the reading glasses 
on the claim form, hes provided a receipt dated 30 May 2019 for glasses costing £310.
Mr Cs policy says that after taking in to account an amount for age, wear and tear and 
loss of value Mapfre will reimburse Mr C for personal items up to the limits set out in his 
policy. As Mr C has bronze cover he has a £1,000 limit for personal belongings, but theres a 
single article limit of £100. This means that the maximum Mapfre will pay for any one item is 
£100. Mr Cs policy goes on to say,
Please note: we reserve the right to apply an additional 10% deduction to any item 
claimed with a value over £100, following our standard deductions for age, wear and tear 
and loss of value, where you cannot prove you own it or provide proof of purchase (e.g. 
original receipts).
Having looked at the policy terms I consider Mapfre reasonably applied a 10% deduction 
for wear and tear to Mr Cs claim for his hat and sunglasses. I also believe Mapfre 
correctly applied an additional 10% deduction to Mr Cs claim for sunglasses, as these cost 
more than £100. But Mapfre also deducted an additional 10% to Mr Cs claim for a hat that 
cost less than £100. I dont think they acted reasonably in doing so. Ive provisionally 
decided Mapfre should pay Mr C an additional £7 (10% of £70) for his hat.
Given that I dont consider Mr C deliberately exaggerated his claim for cash I dont think
Mapfre acted reasonably in refusing to consider Mr Cs claim for lost reading glasses. 
Ive also taken in to account the fact Mr C claimed for them from his initial claim, so I 
believe Mapfre should have asked for more information about them before settling Mr Cs 
claim. Ive provisionally decided Mapfre should pay Mr C £100 for his reading glasses. 
Although Mr Cs glasses cost more than this, the single article limit applies.Policy excesses
Mr Cs policy says,
Excesses
Under most sections of this policy you have to pay the first part of any claim. This is 
called an excess. This will apply to each person claiming and to each incident and to each 
section of the policy you claim under. This amount is shown under each of the sections 
where it applies.
Given this wording Im satisfied Mapfre acted reasonably in deducting £100 excess 
under the personal money section of Mr Cs policy and a further £100 under the 
personal belongings section.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mapfre accepted my provisional decision but Mr C did not. He said:
He lost all his items together and so only one excess should apply to them all. 
Ive made deductions of 30% for each item, which is significant.
His hat and sunglasses were maybe a year old and hadnt been used before the trip.
Hes unsure where I got the figure of £70 from for his hat, as it cost more than this.
All of his lost item werent in the hat.
He thinks he may have lost more sterling than I set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to my provisional decision Mr C said his lost items were new and hed 
provided receipts, so there shouldnt be any deductions. Mapfre applied a 10% wear, tear 
and loss of value reduction to Mr Cs claim for lost hat and sunglasses, and I consider this to 
be reasonable. Mr Cs policy says:
After taking off an amount for age, wear and tear and loss of value, we will reimburse you 
for an item that you own that you have lost or that has been damaged or stolen. 
On his claim form Mr C said his hat and sunglasses were gifts in October 2018, so they 
werent new at the time of loss in May 2019. Although Mr C says he hadnt used them before 
the trip they would still have reduced in value, and the 10% deduction set out in the policy 
applies to wear, tear and loss of value. So Im satisfied the reduction has been applied 
reasonably. 
Mr Cs policy also provides for an additional 10% deduction for items valued at over £100. 
Mapfre applied this to his claim for his lost hat and sunglasses, but in my provisional 
decision I said they were wrong to apply the additional deduction to Mr Cs claim for his hat  
as its value was less than £100. I asked Mapfre to put things right by paying Mr C the £7 
deduction theyd incorrectly made. I used £70 as the value of Mr Cs hat, as the evidence Mr 
C provided said it would cost this amount to replace it. 
I still consider Mapfre acted reasonably in applying an additional 10% deduction to Mr Cs 
claim for his lost sunglasses though. This is because Mr C didnt provide Mapfre with proof 
of purchase, but with a handwritten note saying what it would cost to replace them. The note doesnt show Mr C bought the sunglasses from the shop in question, on a specific date for a 
certain cost, so is not proof of purchase as a receipt would be.
Mr C says Ive allowed Mapfre to make 30% decuctions from his lost items, but this isnt the 
case. Ive concluded that Mapfre correctly applied a 10% deduction to Mr Cs claim for his 
lost sunglasses and hat, and a further 10% to his sunglasses. 
Mr C said in his response to my provisional decision that the amounts of lira and sterling he 
lost may be different to the amounts I set out. I find the information Mr C provided at the time 
of the claim to be more persuasive, but in any event, there is a policy limit and so Im unable 
to consider a further award. 
In terms of policy excesses, I consider Mr Cs policy is clear that they apply to each person, 
incident and section of the policy. Mapfre have correctly applied their policy terms, so I cant 
say theyve acted unreasonably. Because the excess applies to each section of the policy it 
doesnt matter that Mr C lost all his items together. 
Im sorry that I said some missing items were in the pockets of Mr Cs hat when they werent. 
This point isnt material to the outcome though, as the policy covers loss irrespective of 
where the items were located prior to the loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. should:
Pay Mr C an additional £7 under the personal belongings section of his policy.
Pay Mr C £100 for his lost reading glasses.
Pay interest on the above two amounts at the standard of 8% simple* from the date 
of claim to the date of payment.
* If Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. considers 
they are required by HM Revenue and Customs to take off income tax from the 8% simple 
interest award, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr C 
a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman