DRN-3233786
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of how 
it handled a claim he made when he was involved in an accident. He believes its failure to 
gather relevant evidence in a timely manner has delayed the claim and limited the chance of 
a successful outcome, against the other driver, being achieved.
What happened
Mr L had an accident in his car, he says another driver came out of a side road and drove 
into him. The accident occurred in June 2021, and whilst he made his claim to UKI 
straightaway, and even though he told it CCTV footage was available, it didnt ask for a 
police report, or attempt to gain the CCTV footage, until late September 2021.
Mr L was injured in the accident. So that part of his claim, and liability for the accident as a 
whole, has been taken forwards by solicitors. UKI forwarded the police report to the solicitors 
But, due to the time which had passed since the accident, the CCTV footage was 
unavailable. UKI apologised to Mr L for delaying in obtaining that, said it would give updates 
every two weeks from the solicitors and paid him £250 to make up for the impact the poor 
service, to that point, had caused him. 
Mr L remained unhappy  he wanted UKI to settle his personal injury claim and assure him 
that his no claims bonus, as well as his claim record, would be protected if the liability of the 
other driver couldnt now be attained. He complained to us.
Our investigator felt that UKI had acted fairly and reasonably to make up for the upset, to the 
point of the complaint, its errors had caused Mr L. He explained he couldnt make any 
findings that related to the as yet undetermined liability issue. Overall he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr L said the solicitors are waiting to hear from UKI. He said he hasnt been able to work 
due to his injuries and hed told UKI at the outset that the other driver was likely to be 
uncooperative. He asked that an ombudsman considers his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's clear that UKI missed an opportunity here to gather evidence, and I can 
understand why its failure has frustrated Mr L. But at the time of Mr Ls complaint to UKI, the 
liability claim (at least partly due to the missing evidence) hadnt progressed or concluded. It 
still hasnt concluded. And we dont know why that is, or if its most likely it would have been 
resolved by now if the CCTV evidence had been gathered. Not least as we dont know if the 
CCTV would have captured the accident itself. And until liability has been decided and UKI 
has had a chance to consider for itself, in light of that outcome, what the overall impact of its 
failure regarding the CCTV footage is, it wouldn't be fair for this service to comment on it. 
But we can comment on what happened before the complaint came to us. At the time of the 
complaint UKI had recently provided the police report to the solicitors and determined the 
CCTV footage wasnt available. It noted that this would have only been available for about 
two weeks after the incident  but accepted Mr L had told it about the likelihood of CCTV 
evidence during his notification of the claim. It isnt unusual for CCTV footage to only be kept 
for a short period. So I think UKI should have acted on this quickly, and if it had the footage 
would likely have been obtained. Although I cant know what it would have shown. As it was 
the liability aspect of the claim only progressed in late September once it was known the 
footage wasnt available. That was a delay of around four months and would clearly have 
been frustrating for Mr L. I understand Mr L had needed to chase UKI a lot during this time 
too. And was upset when he finally learnt the footage hadnt been obtained. I think, given the 
situation at hand when the complaint was made, £250 fairly and reasonably makes up for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr L was caused to that point by UKIs failure. I cant fairly 
and reasonably require it to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman