DRN-3568982
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund two payments made from her 
account without her authority.
What happened
Miss P says that at the end of October 2020, she met a man on a night out. Ill refer to him 
as D. Miss P says she exchanged contact details with D for a social media app and that over 
the coming weeks they kept in touch.
On 6 November 2020, Miss P says she got a message from D saying hed like to give her 
£30 as a token of his affection so she could get her nails painted. Miss P says she sent D 
her sort code and account number. A credit of £30 was paid into Miss Ps Lloyds account.
Later that same day Miss P got another message from D, saying hed miscalculated how 
much money he had and asking her to send him back £5 so he could get some fuel. Miss P 
set up D as a new payee and sent him £5.
On 7 November 2020, two payments were made from Miss Ps account to D  using the 
payee Miss P had set up the prior day. At just after 1am the first payment of £700 was made, 
followed a couple of minutes later by a payment of £560. Both payments were made via 
online banking using Miss Ps security credentials.  Miss P says these payments werent 
made by her and were done while she was asleep. 
Miss P contacted Lloyds and reported the fraud. Lloyds looked into Miss Ps fraud claim but 
declined to refund her. They gave the following reasons:
Miss P had told them that no one had her security details or login information for her 
online banking  therefore they couldnt see how a fraudster couldve accessed her 
account in order to make the payments.
An overdraft facility of £1,250 had been applied for a month prior to these 
transactions, which was for almost the same amount as these transactions. That 
overdraft facility wasnt put in place, but another application was made just moments 
before the first payment on 7 November 2020 for the same amount of £1,250 which 
was approved and put in place. Without this overdraft facility being agreed, the 
disputed transactions couldnt have been made out of Miss Ps account.
Similar IP addresses were used for the two disputed transactions as Miss P had used 
for genuine logins to her online banking.
Miss P didnt agree with Lloyds decision saying:
Lloyds stated that the fraudster was known to her  but she only met him once.
Lloyds shouldve contacted the fraudster and interviewed him.
She never applied for an overdraft facility and asked for supporting evidence of the 
enquiry.
Lloyds should provide evidence regarding IP addresses they relied on.
Miss P also asked Lloyds to provide substantive evidence and paperwork in relation to her 
fraud claim, their internal notes and processes and policies. As she didnt agree with their 
response, she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, they couldnt 
see how a fraudster wouldve gained the information needed in order to successfully log into 
Miss Ps online banking and make the transactions. Therefore, they felt it was most likely 
that the transactions were made with Miss Ps authorisation.
As Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take in account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the 
same reasons. These are:
The two transactions Miss P is disputing were made using her online banking login. 
The person who made the transactions got all of the security and login details correct 
 with no errors or failed attempts. This persuades me that its more likely than not 
that they had Miss Ps login information. I say this because a fraudster guessing the 
login details would most likely get something wrong and not be able to answer 
everything correctly on their first go.
Miss P has told us that she didnt share any of her login or security information with 
anyone and that no one else knew it. She said she sent her sort code and account 
number to D, but nothing else. Miss P has also said that she didnt receive any links, 
malicious emails or unexpected contacts whereby she mightve clicked a link or 
downloaded software inadvertently to give a fraudster access. 
Considering purely the information that Miss P has given, I cant see how an unknown third 
party couldve accessed her account in order to make the two transactions via online 
banking without her permission or authorisation. 
I also think its highly unusual that there would be an enquiry about an overdraft facility a 
month before this happened  requesting a limit of £1,250. Then another enquiry was made 
minutes before the disputed transactions were made - again for a limit of £1,250. The 
second application process was completed and the £1,250 limit was added to Miss Ps 
account, which allowed the two disputed transactions to be made as there werent sufficient funds in the account without the overdraft facility. I havent relied on the overdraft facility 
enquiries or application in reaching my decision, however it does seem odd that the two 
enquiries are for the same amount as each other, as well as being for basically the same 
amount as the disputed transactions. Also, that the first overdraft enquiry was made a month 
prior to Miss P reporting the fraud so appears to predate the fraud.
Miss P raised with Lloyds that she should be refunded under the APP scam code. I believe 
Miss P is referring to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), however that 
only applies to authorised push payments (APPs). As Miss P is saying these payments 
arent authorised, they arent covered by the code and Miss P isnt entitled to a refund under 
the terms of the CRM Code.
Miss P is also unhappy with how Lloyds investigated her fraud claim and requested Lloyds to 
take additional actions like interviewing D. From what Ive seen Lloyds gathered enough 
information in order to decide whether they could fairly hold Miss P liable for the disputed 
transactions  which is what I would expect. In these circumstances, I wouldnt have 
expected them to contact or interview D  which is an action more appropriate to a police 
investigation.
Having considered everything, I cant see how an unknown third party couldve accessed 
Miss Ps account and made these payments without her authorisation or permission. So, I 
think its most likely that Miss P made the payments or authorised someone else to make 
them. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Lloyds to refund Miss P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman