DRN-2737651
The complaint
Mr K complains about Assurant Direct Limiteds (Assurant) decline of his claim under his 
mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
  Mr K was on holiday when he had an accident. This resulted in two of his devices falling 
over a cliff and another phone becoming damaged.  On the same day Mr K made a claim for 
all three devices. Two of the devices Assurant accepted but one of the phones, it declined. 
The reason Assurant gave for declining the claim was because it said that Mr K couldnt 
prove usage. 
Mr K said that he used the phone as a back-up phone predominately to take photos and if 
needed, to make calls from abroad. Mr K raised a complaint with Assurant. 
In its final response, Assurant said that the reason why his claim was declined was because 
Mr K couldnt prove that he had used the phone when the insurance was active. The last 
calls made on the phone were some months before Mr K had reported its loss. Assurant also 
relied on the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr K wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators considered his complaint and upheld it. She said that Mr K had 
proved that the phone that had been lost wasnt his primary phone and so was likely to have 
been used in the way that Mr K said it was, predominantly taking photos. Mr K had provided 
evidence in support of this and had provided evidence that his other phone had been used 
as his main phone. So, she recommended that Assurant reconsider the claim in line with the 
policy terms. 
Mr K accepted her decision, Assurant did not, and the matter was referred to an ombudsman 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I will be upholding Mr Ks complaint and I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
When an insurer declines a claim, our role is to see if we think its fairly declined the claim. In 
doing so Ive looked at the policy terms, circumstances and industry guidelines. The main 
issue here is whether Mr K could prove use of the phone.
Mr Ks policy provided for the loss of a mobile phone and as with such policies they are 
governed by terms and conditions of cover. Assurant has said that the relevant term here is 
that, it will only cover the loss of a phone if proof of usage is obtained.  From either the 
network provider or evidence that shows that the phone was used after the start of the 
policy. And if the evidence cant be validated, then it may decline a claim. 
Mr K argued that the phone that he lost was used, in that phones now had many functions 
(not just making calls) and he had used the phone mainly for taking photos. 
The reason I think Assurant asked for proof of usage, was to determine two things. First 
ownership of the phone and second, that Mr K had the phone in his possession after he took 
out the insurance. If it wasnt and had already been lost, then it wouldnt be covered under 
the policy. But with terms such as this, we would expect Assurant to apply the term 
reasonably and if there was further evidence to support proof of usage, then to consider this 
as well. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy, it seems that Assurant shouldve 
done just this as the policy states: We do understand that every claim can be quite different,
and we will make every effort to take this into consideration when we review a claim. And 
given the circumstances, I dont think it had and Ill explain why. 
Mr K supplied his proof of usage documentation from his network provider, that showed that 
the last calls made on the phone were some months before its loss. However, he also 
provided other evidence such as photos that he had taken shortly before the loss of the 
phone, that had been stored on the manufacturers cloud account. As well as evidence 
regarding his other phone that showed that he had used that phone (which was damaged in 
the accident) primarily for making calls. 
Consequently, I think that Assurant shouldve taken these additional pieces of evidence into 
consideration and not just refused Mr Ks claim as he wasnt able to show that he had made 
phone calls on that phone but was able to show that he had used the phone in other ways.  
Putting things right
 Overall, I do think that there is enough evidence to support Mr Ks claim under the policy 
and that Mr K has shown that he had the phone in his possession (and had used it) at the 
time of the loss. So, I dont think that Assurant fairly declined the claim. To put matters right, 
Assurant should reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. Assurant Direct Limited should reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman