DRN-3710161
The complaint
Mrs B, who was subject to a bankruptcy order in October, complains that First Holiday 
Finance Ltd (FHF) unfairly turned down her claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA).
What happened
In September 2011 Mrs B along with her late husband purchased a timeshare membership 
from a company I will call C. It cost £23,990 and was funded by a loan from FHF. I gather 
they had purchased a trial membership prior to this, but it is the September 2011 purchase 
which is the subject of this complaint. After the sad demise of her husband in September 
2012 the agreement and loan were transferred to Mrs B in her name alone. In October 2018 
Mrs B was declared bankrupt and the Insolvency Receiver was made part of this complaint.
According to FHF membership was suspended due to non-payment of annual fees in August 
2017. In September 2018 Mrs B notified FHF that she was seeking help from a debt charity 
and she was unwell. FHF was unable to contact her and in November 2018 wrote to say it 
was prepared to write off the debt. Mrs B had engaged a firm of professional representatives 
(PR) and they rejected this offer and sought a full refund and compensation. FHF wrote off 
the loan in December 2019.
Prior to this, on 25 July 2017, the PR had submitted a letter of claim. This was wide ranging 
and encompassed general points on the timeshare industry. PR said there had been 
misrepresentation and there had also been an unfair relationship between Mrs B and FHF. It 
said the misrepresentations were that she was told membership of C:
Would allow our client and her family to reduce their annual spend on holidays.
There was limited availability for this product as it was a popular choice amongst 
customers.
Membership in the CLC membership was exclusive to members.
It would allow them a gateway to secure luxurious accommodation at luxurious 
resorts all over the World.
The product would be a 'great investment for their children".
There was a one-off opportunity to acquire a reclaimed membership but It was only 
available on the day.
It said the unfair terms were:
The client and members of the Club have no meaningful control over maintenance 
fees.
The client and members have no meaningful control over the inventory introduced to 
the Club.
There is no provision in the Agreement with CLC for clients to reimburse capital 
investments. CLC are able to re-claim club memberships If a client defaults on 
paying maintenance fees. Alternatively If a client is unhappy or distressed, they are 
forced into a situation whereby they can leave the Club but receive no return of 
capital which can be used to repay the Loan.
FHF rejected the claim and said Mrs B had made use of her membership up until 2015. It 
said she had taken 10 holidays with C. It went on to address each point made by the PR and 
challenged much of what was in Mrs Bs personal statement.
The complaint was brought to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend that it be upheld. She initially though the s.75 claim was 
made out of time but later corrected this. She said there was insufficient evidence to allow 
her to conclude that there had been misrepresentation and she didnt consider there had 
been an unfair relationship. Nor could she say there had been irresponsible lending.
PR didnt agree and said there had not been any meaningful consideration of the documents 
or the rules and regulations. It argued that the wider issue of the operation of the timeshare 
industry should be considered and suggested a detailed response be given. With regard to 
the s.75 claim it believed that it was inappropriate to give undue weight to the 
documentation. The evidence of Mrs B and other complainants should be given adequate 
consideration.
It detailed some of the claims of misrepresentation made by Mrs B and others and 
concluded the claims made by C and its representatives were wrong and misleading.
It argued that there was an unfair relationship under s.140A and the onus was on FHF to 
prove otherwise. It went on to say that the Regulations had been breached by C in 
numerous ways and this resulted in an unfair relationship.
On the matter of affordability it said Mrs B had failed to take account of maintenance fees 
and no proper consideration had been made of FHFs evaluation of affordability.
The matter was passed to me to make a decision. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account 
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
However, firstly I will address the similar fact evidence which PR refers to. I have reviewed a 
bundle which runs to over 1,600 pages which is not, in the main, similar fact evidence. It is a 
collection of material including copies of legislation, court cases in the UK and elsewhere, 
articles, information about C and its operations plus over 100 statements from consumers.
Having done so I must explain that my role is to consider the complaint made by Mrs B and 
the relevant facts put forward on her behalf. It is not to decide on the wider issues relating to 
the timeshare industry.
Having read and considered all the available relevant evidence and arguments, I dont 
currently think this complaint should be upheld.
PR has sent us a considerable amount of information and submissions in an effort to explain 
what it thinks the outcome of this complaint should be. However, as this service is designed 
to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts, my role as an ombudsman isnt to 
address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides, I will 
continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to this 
complaint, when doing that.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
Section 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mrs B) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (FHF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under Section 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mrs B made like claims against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation period 
for those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in 
paragraph 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence 
that would have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation:
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation. The claim was made within six years and so there is no basis for 
concluding it is time barred.
Mrs B complains that the timeshare was misrepresented on a number of grounds as set out 
above. I have taken due note of the grounds set out by PR in the letter of claim and in 
subsequent letters to this service including that in response to the investigators view. I have 
also noted FHFs rebuttal of those claims.Ive considered the common law position, as well as the Misrepresentation Act 1967 when 
deciding whether a misrepresentation is most likely to have been made in the circumstances 
of this case. For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation on the part of the supplier in 
the way Mrs B has alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the 
available evidence, that the supplier made a false statement of fact when selling the holiday 
product in 2011. In other words, that they told Mrs B something that wasnt true in relation to 
one or more of the points she has raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentation was material in inducing Mrs B to enter the contract. This means I would 
need to be persuaded that Mrs B reasonably relied on the false statement when deciding to 
acquire membership.
The claim is based on what Mrs B has put in her witness statement though this also covers 
an earlier purchase. I am aware sales meetings can last for a number of hours and the 
agents for C can be very persuasive. I recognise they will emphasise the positive benefits of 
memberships and the access to accommodation. That of itself does not demonstrate that 
statements were made which might amount to misrepresentation.
The documentation I have seen clearly refers to the products not being investments and 
while they might be seen as investments in future holidays there is nothing I have seen that 
shows they were sold as financial investments. Nor does the paperwork refer to the ability to 
sell the membership points back. Nor does it indicate that Mrs B would own a property or a 
share in property. None of the documentation supports the claim of misrepresentation. In 
short we have Mrs Bs recollections of what was said and the rebuttal of that by FHF along 
with the documentary material. I also note that Mrs B was content to make use of her 
membership until 2015 and to take 10 holidays with C.
Quite simply, I do not consider I can reach the conclusion that the membership was 
misrepresented. Because of this I do not uphold this part of her complaint.
S. 140A claims
Under s.140A and s.140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to consider 
whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make appropriate 
orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the parties and 
refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any related agreement. Whilst the position is not entirely clear, its likely that the 
sale agreement was a related agreement here.
The Limitation Act applies to a claim under s.140A. Im satisfied the relevant limitation period 
is six years and time starts to run from the date the credit agreement ended - if it was not still 
running when the claim was made. I consider the claim under s.140A to be in date.
PR makes much of the alleged breach of Regulations. However, its the substance of the 
regulatory breach  and the impact on the consumer  that matters more than the breach 
itself. So, even if the provision of information by C fell short in some way, that doesnt 
automatically lead to an uphold on the basis that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair.
And the fact that the purchase agreement may have been unenforceable (which is different 
to voidable) under Regulation 15 of the 2010 Timeshare Regulations (in light of a breach of 
Regulation 12) is, in my view, unlikely to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair 
because I cant see why the unenforceability of the purchase agreement against the 
consumer would be to their disadvantage.To the extent that the contract is advantageous to the consumer and they want to continue 
with it, nothing changes even if the relevant section of Regulation 15 bites. It is only in the 
circumstance that the supplier takes enforcement steps against the consumer that the 
unenforceability becomes relevant, in which case it provides a helpful protection and 
advantage to the consumer.
Looking at other issues raised by PR I have seen nothing to indicate that the points were 
sold as an investment. The Members Declaration contains the following: We understand 
that the purchase of our membership in Vacation Club is for the primary purpose of holidays 
and is not for the purpose of real estate interest or an investment in real estate and, that 
CLC make no representation as to the future price or value of the Vacation Club product. It 
follows that I cannot conclude that the product was sold as an investment.
The agreement also set out the maintenance fees and detailed the sums chargeable in the 
current year. It makes no promise that these will be kept at the same level and explains that 
they are calculated in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
PR asserts that the Court decision in the Link Financial case applies to Mrs Bs complaint. It 
involved a term whereby the supplier of the timeshare will extinguish the consumers rights 
in the timeshare for non-payment of commission. The court in that case found the term to be 
unfair.
However, it must be noted that the judge said that: In considering the fairness of the 
relationship, it is necessary to consider all other relevant matters, and (amongst other 
things), these necessarily include how the clause has been operated in practice. As I 
understand it C has not sought to extinguish Mrs Bs rights and I dont see that in those 
circumstances I can conclude there was an unfair relationship.
The contract is not as clear cut as one might wish to see. However, I gather the position was 
clarified in December 2015, when Cs articles were amended. And as a result Im persuaded 
that a membership can be suspended but fees will not continue to accrue. That appears to 
be the position here, so I dont think, in the circumstances that its likely that a Court would 
find there to be an unfair debtor creditor relationship as a result of this.
Overall, I see no reason why I should conclude that FHF was wrong to reject the claim under 
s. 140.
The Lending Decision
While PR says that Mrs B suffered detriment because the right checks werent carried out 
before FHF lent to her, very little has been said about this particular allegation. And even if I 
were to find that FHF failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs B 
before also concluding that she lost out as a result.
I appreciate Mrs B became bankrupt some seven years later and for a sum that is far in 
excess of any debts she may have incurred with FHF. However, that doesnt show that 
inappropriate checks were carried out or that the lending was unaffordable at that time. As I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that was the case, I dont currently think this is a 
reason to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
The business accepted my decision and PR did not respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have been given no reasons or arguments that would allow me to change my 
provisional decision it stands as set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman