DRN-4518419
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). 
They are not happy that it turned down a subsidence claim under their commercial 
properties insurance policy and the delay in dealing with the claim.
For ease of reading any reference to RSA includes its agents and Ive mainly referred to Mrs 
S and Mr S in this decision as opposed to their representative.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S made a claim in relation to an ongoing subsidence issue at their rental 
property. But when they made a claim under their commercial properties insurance policy 
RSA turned down the claim and removed cover for subsidence from the policy. This was 
because RSA felt that Mrs S and Mr S hadnt made a fair representation of the risk posed as 
they didnt fully outline the previous subsidence problems at the property. And had they have 
done so RSA said it would not have provided cover for subsidence. 
As Mrs S and Mr S werent happy about this they complained to RSA. It maintained its 
position about the decline of the claim and the reasons why. But it did offer £50 by way of 
compensation in acknowledgement of its delays in dealing with their claim. 
However, Mrs S and Mr S remained unhappy, so they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S and Mr S but didnt uphold their complaint. She 
thought it was clear that they shouldve told RSA about their previous problems relating to 
possible subsidence at the property. And had Mrs S and Mr S have done this RSA wouldnt 
have provided cover for this. So she didnt think RSA had done anything wrong in turning 
down the subsidence claim and that its offer of £50 compensation for its delays was fair. 
As Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S and Mr S, but Ill explain why.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
Ive looked at all the arguments and information provided by both sides and the relevant law, 
which in this case is the Insurance Act 2015, and I dont feel the complaint should be upheld. 
I say this as I dont think Mrs S and Mr S made a fair presentation of the risk they posed and 
provided all the information that I would expect them to provide before the policy was taken 
out. 
The Act places a duty on them to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out 
insurance. And so Mrs S and Mr S shouldve looked to disclose everything they knew, or 
ought to have known, that would influence the insurers judgement to insure and on what 
terms or enough information to put RSA on notice that it needed to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances. 
Ive seen sufficient evidence to show that Mrs S and Mr S should have made RSA aware of 
previous issues at the property stemming back to the 1980s (when steps to underpin the 
property were undertaken) and other insurance claims have been raised since that time. The 
statement of fact stemmed from answers provided by Mrs S and Mr S and states that The 
Premises and adjacent property have not suffered any previous Damage caused by 
Subsidence, Landslip or Heave and show no signs of any Damage caused by Subsidence, 
Landslip or Heave.  Had the previous problems at the property stemming from possible 
subsidence issues been highlighted then RSA wouldve referred the risk to its underwriters. 
And it is clear from the information provided that RSA would have excluded subsidence from 
cover due to the previous history at the property. 
I know Mrs S and Mr S have suggested that the problems they have faced at the property 
are not subsidence. But even if that was the case I still think they had a duty, even more so 
as a commercial customer, to make RSA aware of the general issues they had faced at the 
property. And the fact that they had made claims, whether successful or not, in relation to 
subsidence previously. Had they have done so; RSA would have been on notice that it 
needed to make further enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
I note that Mrs S and Mr S has highlighted that they thought RSA shouldve checked the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) when the policy was taken out and I understand 
their position. However, insurers arent obliged to do this and often only check CUE at claim 
stage, so I dont think RSA have acted unreasonably.
Given all of this I cant say RSA havent acted fairly here. It is clear that had Mrs S and Mr S 
provided details about potential subsidence issues at their property that had been ongoing 
for a long time then RSA would have acted differently as there had been a qualifying breach 
of the Insurance Act. And I think RSA has treated Mrs S and Mr S fairly and in line with the 
Act by providing all remaining cover under the policy excluding subsidence as Mrs S and Mr 
S hadnt provided a fair presentation of the risk. Finally, I can see that RSA offered £50 
compensation in acknowledgement of delays which seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman