DRN-1954139
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) didnt pay the full medical 
costs they claimed for under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip select platinum travel insurance policy  underwritten 
IPA  to cover a city break abroad at the end of February 2019. 
Whilst abroad Mr M required hospital attention. IPA only agreed to cover a proportion of the 
medical costs incurred. It said, when taking out the policy, Mr M had failed to disclose all his 
medical conditions  in particular high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Had he done so, 
IPA says the policy wouldve been more expensive. So it proportionately settled the medical 
costs incurred in same proportion to the premium he paid. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to our Service. Our investigator upheld their complaint. 
He didnt think IPA had acted fairly and reasonably. He recommended IPA pay the medical 
costs in full together with £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. IPA disagreed 
so this complaint has now been passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so, Ive taken into account the law in the area  which sets out an insurers 
remedies where a consumer has deliberately, recklessly or carelessly misrepresented the 
situation about things like their pre-existing medical conditions when taking out the policy.
When a consumer takes out insurance, theyll be asked questions about themselves and the 
risks they want to insure. The insurer then uses that information to weigh up whether it 
wishes to cover that risk and how much it will charge for doing so. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a duty 
on consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when entering an 
insurance contract. They must provide the insurer with accurate information to allow it to 
assess the risk. If they dont, there are some circumstances where an insurer may be able to 
avoid the insurance contact or proportionately settle a claim. 
But thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. In the absence of this, and 
where the consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation then the 
insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided with the wrong information.
Under CIDRA, deciding whether Mr and Mrs M took reasonable care is to be done in the 
light of all the relevant circumstances. That can involve a number of things including whether 
the questions they were asked at the time of taking out the policy were sufficiently clear.
Mr and Mrs M initially visited a comparison website to search for a travel insurance policy. 
Ive been provided with part of the online sales journey. Mr and Mrs M were asked, amongst 
other questions:
-Does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition?
They answered: yes.
-Have you or anyone in your party been prescribed medication, received treatment or 
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical condition in the 
past 2 years?
They answered: yes.
-Have you or anyone in your party ever been diagnosed with or treated for any of the 
following:
Any heart or respiratory condition?
Any circulatory condition (problems with blood flow, including strokes, high 
blood pressure and cholesterol)?
Any liver condition?
Any cancerous condition?
They answered: yes.
After answering all questions asked of them, I understand Mr and Mrs M were transferred to 
the website of the company whose branding appears on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M are asked to declare each pre-existing medical condition for each passenger 
(the medical declaration question).
Mr M disclosed diabetes and is asked to answer some additional questions including:
-Have you been advised to take medication for high blood pressure?
The answer given is already declared. 
-Have you been advised to take medication to lower your cholesterol? 
The answer given is already declared.
Mr M then also separately declares another medical condition.
IPA says Mr and Mrs M shouldve also separately declared that Mr M had high cholesterol 
and high blood pressure. If those conditions had been separately declared it says they 
wouldve still been offered the policy, but the premium wouldve been significantly higher  
and Mr and Mrs M paid around 37% of the premium that shouldve been charged. Thats 
why IPA says its paid around 37% of the claim made for medical costs on the policy.
Mr M says he believed he had declared all his pre-existing medical conditions before taking 
out the policy. He says that he had declared having a circulatory condition (high cholesterol 
and high blood pressure) when going through the sales process of the comparison website. And stated that hed selected the option given to him of already declared when answering 
additional questions about taking medication for high blood pressure and to lower his 
cholesterol after declaring that he had diabetes. 
Im persuaded by what Mr M says. Given the way in which the questions were asked during 
the sales journey before taking out the policy, I can see why he reasonably believed that he 
had declared having high cholesterol and high blood pressure as well as diabetes and his 
other pre-existing condition. And thats why he didnt separately disclose them when 
answering the medical declaration question, instead opting to choose from the drop-down 
box already declared.
IPA may have meant that option to be used for another purpose, but Im not persuaded Mr M 
shouldve been aware of that, or that by answering the questions in this way, still required 
him separately disclose high blood pressure and cholesterol again. 
And I dont think anything he and Mrs M received after buying the policy  including the 
schedule of insurance  would make them think otherwise. The schedule simply repeats the 
answers given to the medical declaration question and the answer that Mr M had already 
declared taking medication for high blood pressure and to lower his cholesterol. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M took reasonable care when answering the 
questions relating to pre-existing medical conditions and as such, Im not persuaded they 
made a qualifying misrepresentation when taking out the policy. 
Im not therefore satisfied IPA acted fairly and reasonably by proportionately settling Mr Ms 
medical costs in the way that it did. 
Putting things right
I direct IPA to pay:
- the medical costs claimed in full - together with any interest due on the outstanding 
amount and any collection fees Mr and Mrs M are liable for;
- Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience for the worry of 
being faced with such large medical bills as a result of IPA not paying the medical 
costs in full.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should put things right by 
doing what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman