DRN-3802887
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Insurance (UKI) 
mishandled his legal expenses claim.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to UKI I mean both the underwriter and any agent acting 
on its behalf. 
Background
Mr Q was involved in a road traffic incident in 2017 which resulted in him making a claim 
under his legal expenses policy with UKI. Mr Q has said it took from June 2017 when the 
incident occurred, until October 2021 for the claim to be resolved. He believes this is a result 
of the poor service he received from the solicitors firm appointed by UKI to represent him. 
He is unhappy that when he brought his complaint to UKI it was referred back to the legal 
agents to be dealt with. Mr Q believes because UKI appointed the legal agents to act on its 
behalf, it should be responsible for looking into his complaint. 
UKI has explained that it appointed legal agents to manage Mr Qs legal expenses claim 
because its staff arent legally trained and so dont have the requisite legal knowledge or 
qualifications to manage claims such as Mr Qs. It has said that when Mr Q complained 
about the service he had received it lodged his complaint with the legal agents to be 
considered. After doing so those agents agreed Mr Qs case couldve been better managed 
and apologised offering £250 compensation. 
Mr Q refused the compensation and wanted to escalate his complaint further. He was 
advised to take it to the Legal Ombudsman but brought it to this service instead as he felt 
that ultimately it was still UKI who were at fault for the poor service he had received. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Qs complaint already. He confirmed that UKI were 
entitled to outsource legal expenses claims in this way to solicitors firms to deal with. He felt 
UKI had acted reasonably when it referred Mr Qs complaint back to the legal agents to 
consider. He also agreed that if Mr Q wanted to bring his complaint further the correct way to 
do so was via the Legal Ombudsman, who are qualified to consider how the claim was 
managed and whether the legal advice hed received was correct.
Mr Q didnt accept the investigators findings and requested a final decision and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to consider.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im going to come to the same outcome as our investigator did and for much 
the same reasons. I know this will frustrate Mr Q and so Ive tried to explain clearly who is 
responsible for what in regard to his legal expenses claim.
Mr Q has repeatedly pointed out that he pays his premiums to UKI, and its responsible for 
appointing the solicitors who dealt with his complaint and so should be responsible for any 
complaint he may have about how that claim was managed. 
I completely understand why Mr Q believes this to be the case and can see the logic in the 
approach he has taken. However, the issue here is the nature of Mr Qs claim, which is 
different from the other sorts of claims UKI deals with, in that it is based around legal advice 
and the running of a legal case. 
As an underwriter and insurer UKI offers legal expenses cover to its customers. However, 
when it comes to the running of these claims, which will invariably involve legal 
considerations and likely court hearings, UKI appoints solicitors firms to run these claims 
and represent its policy holders in courts. This is because underwriters and insurers arent 
solicitors or barristers and dont have the necessary legal qualifications or knowledge to be 
able to represent their policy holders directly. 
Therefore, it follows that if a policy holder complains to UKI, as Mr Q did, that the way in 
which their legal claim was run, or the advice they were given was incorrect, UKI wont be 
able to consider these complaints directly. This is because UKI doesnt have the level of 
understanding necessary to be able to tell if any delays were avoidable, if the advice given 
was poor, or if the claim couldve been handled better. So, it refers these complaints back to 
the solicitor firm to consider. And if the policy holder is unhappy with the outcome of that 
investigation they can refer the complaint to the Legal Ombudsman, who will look at how the 
legal claim was managed and whether the solicitors made any mistakes in the time they took 
to resolve the claim or the advice they gave. 
The only thing this service can consider is whether or not UKI acted reasonably when Mr Q 
made his initial complaint in June 2021 about the length of time it was taking for his claim to 
be resolved. At that point UKI called Mr Q the day after he logged his complaint to discuss 
what had happened and explained it would be escalated to the legal agents to review. Which 
is exactly what I would expect UKI to do in that situation. 
After the complaint had been reviewed by the legal agent and an offer of compensation 
made, Mr Q could either accept that offer or bring his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman to 
consider. There was nothing further that UKI could do at that point in regard to this sort of 
complaint.  
Mr Q has argued that his policy documents from UKI state they will appoint a competent 
legal representative for him, and he believes that the solicitor firm appointed was 
incompetent and so UKI should accept his complaint on that basis. But again, UKI were 
entitled to appoint a qualified solicitor firm to deal with Mr Qs complaint. Which is what it did. 
If Mr Q believes that firm didnt manage his claim competently, then he should bring the 
matter to the Legal Ombudsman whose staff have the qualifications and understanding to 
look into the actions of the solicitors and decide if any errors were made. 
In regard to his complaint against UKI, I cant say the underwriter has acted unreasonably. 
Its entitled to appoint a qualified solicitors firm to manage its legal expenses claims, which 
is what it did. And when Mr Q complained about how his claim was being managed, it 
escalated that complaint quickly and appropriately. So, for those reasons I cant say UKI 
have done anything wrong and I cant uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint against UK Insurance Limited 
trading as Direct Line Insurance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman