DRN-3841364
The complaint
Mrs K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc irresponsibly gave her a loan that 
she couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout as RBS. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mrs K applied for a loan with RBS. She was given a loan of £7,500 and 
the monthly repayment was £189. 
In 2022, Mrs K complained to RBS to say that the account shouldnt have been opened 
for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint not be upheld. Mrs K didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach 
to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ks complaint is that RBS made credit available that was unaffordable. RBS has 
explained that it carried out some checks to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer at the time of the lending. And it relied on information provided by Mrs K in support of 
her application. Its possible that RBS failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Mrs K with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
RBS to think the initial credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mrs K told RBS at the point of sale that she was working and in receipt 
of income. It transpired that Mrs K was also in receipt of other income. Mrs K told RBS 
that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation (refinancing). And I can see that 
nearly 90% of the loan was used shortly after the funds were released to pay off three 
credit accounts and an overdraft. The loan that RBS agreed for Mrs K provided enough to 
pay off the loans Mrs K discussed with RBS, provided a structured way of repaying those 
credit sources that had no such repayment plan in place (the credit cards) and would have 
cost Mrs K, most likely, less than the cost of maintaining the existing arrangements. 
So, I dont see the lending decision of RBS to provide the loan for debt consolidation, as 
evidence solely of new credit being provided by RBS, adding to an already large amount 
of personal borrowing. Instead, it looks like Mrs K was taking steps, that could be termed 
sensible, to manage her existing debt by taking out this loan and using it to secure more 
favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mrs K would have been saving 
money on interest she would have been paying elsewhere and paying less for her debt 
than she was already paying. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for RBS to 
have facilitated that.
Mrs K was relying on earned income and monies from other sources at the time. Having 
considered all the details that have been provided about incomes and expenditures in this 
case, Ive seen insufficient evidence that this loan represented unaffordable lending at the 
time it was provided.  
I know that Mrs K will be disappointed with my decision as she has put time and energy 
into her complaint. But I want Mrs K to know that I considered all the submissions made in 
this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman