DRN-2915575
The complaint
Mr O complains Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE (Aioi) have cancelled 
his motor insurance policy unfairly. 
What happened
Mr O took out motor insurance with Aioi which started on 6 December 2019. He was 
involved in an accident in December 2019 and his car was written off.
Mr O asked Aioi for a number of quotes for different replacement vehicles in the following 
weeks. So on 16 April 2020 Aioi e-mailed Mr O to ask for various documents to be provided, 
including a copy of the V5 document. At the same time, they also sent a text message 
informing him that theyd written to him by post and e-mail and the matter required 
immediate attention.
The request was for the required documentation to be provided within seven days. The letter 
explained that if it wasnt received by 23 April 2020 the policy would be cancelled the 
following day. But the request had the wrong car registration number on it. 
As Mr O didnt send the requested information by the required time, the policy was cancelled 
on 24 April 2020. 
On 25 April 2020, Mr O called Aioi and explained that he couldnt get one of the documents 
theyd requested. He also told them the registration number on the letter was incorrect. The 
agent incorrectly told him that he could still provide the information and his policy wouldnt be 
cancelled. 
Mr O called Aioi again on 28 April 2020 and was told the policy had already been cancelled 
and there was nothing further he could do. 
Mr O didnt think that was fair. During the time hed been asked to provide the 
documentation, his family had been impacted by Covid-19. He complained to Aioi. But they 
didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said Mr O had acknowledged to the agent 
hed spoken to on 25 April 2020 that hed received the document request but had forgotten 
to act on it. They said if hed contacted them before the cancellation date of 24 April 2020, 
they mightve been able to offer an extension for him to send the documents in.
They apologised for the incorrect registration number being on the document request letter. 
But said that this wouldve only affected one of the documents requested. They said that If 
any of the other documents had been received in time, or if hed queried this before the 
cancellation date, it couldve been addressed. So Mr O brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded Aioi hadnt treated Mr O fairly. She 
felt they hadnt given him enough time to get the documentation to them. Aioi didnt agree. 
So this complaint has come to me for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 June 2021. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I know this will be extremely 
disappointing to Mr O. Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr O feels very strongly about this matter. And although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to reassure Mr O and Aioi 
that I considered everything that has been said and provided. 
Aioi cancelled Mr Os policy after they didnt receive the information they requested in time. I 
can only ask Aioi to do something in relation to that if I find theyd done something wrong. 
Aioi has said that they normally allow seven days for documents to be provided as per the 
terms of the policy. But they also said that if a customer needs longer to provide the 
documents they look at this on a case by case basis but usually allow more time. So Im 
satisfied that they treated Mr O the same as their other customers when they gave him 
seven days to provide the information.
From what Ive seen Aioi decided they needed to see the requested documents after Mr O 
had requested a number of quotations for different vehicles. The call notes Ive seen say that 
the documentation was requested because the value of the car Mr O had asked for a quote 
on was different from a previous value hed given. So Im not persuaded that Aiois request 
for the information was unfair or unreasonable.
I acknowledge that Covid-19 was impacting Mr O and his family. But Im not persuaded that 
it prevented him from contacting Aioi between 16 April 2020 when he first received the 
document request, and 23 April 2020. And I can see that Aioi was open to extending the 
period of time theyd given Mr O if hed contacted them in the relevant timeframe to explain 
he was having difficulties accessing some of the requested information. 
Aioi wrote to Mr O on 16 April 2020 asking for the listed documents to be sent within seven 
days. They also warned Mr O that if they didnt receive the requested information they would 
cancel the policy on 23 April 2020. They sent a letter and an e-mail requesting the same 
information and giving the same warning. Mr O didnt say he didnt receive the request when 
it was sent.  
The letter gave Mr O seven days. As e-mails are received almost instantaneously Im 
satisfied he had the full seven days in which to comply with the request. As the letter 
wouldnt have arrived immediately Im persuaded Mr O wouldve had a reminder of the 
information request when he received it. 
Aioi used three different communication methods to request the information they needed 
from Mr O. Those communications were sent to the correct contact details provided by Mr O 
when he took out the policy. The request did refer to the incorrect registration number. But 
Im not persuaded that this error was enough to stop Mr O responding to the request. Im 
satisfied that Aioi provided sufficient warning of what would happen if the request wasnt 
fulfilled. So Im not persuaded that Aioi did anything wrong when they cancelled Mr Os 
policy when they said they would. And I dont intend to ask them to do anything else.
Response to provisional decision
Aioi accepted my provisional decision.
Mr O didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman