DRN-2921643
The complaint
Mr R complains that a tax deduction was incorrectly applied to a distribution he received in 
relation to a US fund held within his trading account with Interactive Investor Services 
Limited (II).
What happened
Mr R owned shares in a US fund held within his II trading account. In April 2018, this US 
fund was merged with a several other funds to create a new emerging markets equity 
income fund. As part of the merger process it was announced that a special distribution 
comprised of net realised capital gains would be paid to investors. This was paid on 28 June 
2018.
Mr R contacted II in July 2018 as he felt tax had been incorrectly deducted from his 
distribution. II responded in November 2018 to explain that the distribution had been 
classified as a dividend payment and so it was subject to US income tax. II informed Mr R 
that its custodian would review US income payments at the end of the US tax year, and it 
may potentially reclassify his distribution. II said it may not have this information until March 
or April 2019. 
Mr R chased II for a response from February through to June 2019 when II advised him that 
its custodian wouldnt be able to adjust the tax on his distribution as the custodian had 
already submitted their tax records for that year. II explained that Mr R could contact the US 
Inland Revenue Service (IRS) to reclaim the tax and provided him with the necessary 
forms to do so. 
Mr R raised a complaint with II in December 2019. II looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt 
uphold it. II said the information that its custodian received from its sub-custodian was that 
the payment was made as a dividend and not a capital payment. Therefore, the tax was 
applied correctly. II explained that neither it nor its custodian was able to claim back this tax 
on his behalf and that it had already provided him with the necessary forms to contact the 
IRS. II also pointed to its terms and conditions which explained he was responsible for all 
taxes due.
Mr R was unhappy with IIs response and so he brought his complaint to our service. Whilst 
he was grateful for II chasing its custodian and for providing the tax documents, he felt the 
fault lied with IIs custodian for which II were responsible for. He said hed been telling II 
about the issue since July 2018 and so its custodian ought to have resolved this before the 
end of the US tax year. 
An investigator at our service considered Mr Rs complaint but she didnt think II had done 
anything wrong. In summary she said:
II hold shares on their platform in nominee, which means it holds investments on 
investors behalf and carries out administrative tasks related to the investments. But 
as II doesnt have direct market access, it in turn holds the shares in nominee with a 
custodian, who places trades and receives dividends and stock credits from the stock 
registrars. II then passes these onto its customers.
She was satisfied tax was deducted prior to II receiving Mr Rs distribution and so 
she didnt think it would be fair to hold II responsible for this. 
She also felt IIs terms and conditions made it clear that Mr R would be responsible 
for any tax resulting from his investments.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion. In response he said:
Hed contacted the fund provider who confirmed tax deductions are made at 
custodial level and so his distribution wasnt taxed at source by the provider. So its 
clear the error lies with IIs custodian.
Although it was pointed out to the custodian in good time by II that the payment was 
not a dividend, the custodian either failed to review whether the distribution was a 
dividend or conducted that review so badly that it failed to recognise that a capital 
distribution was not a taxable dividend.
IIs terms and conditions around tax are irrelevant as there shouldnt have be a tax 
liability. 
II had helped resolve a previous tax issue so it should be able to help in this case.
Our investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion and so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
IIs terms and conditions which Mr R agreed to when opening his trading account explained:
You will at all times be fully responsible for payment of all other taxes due, for 
making all claims, for filing any tax returns and for providing any relevant tax 
authorities with information in relation to the Services we carry out for you or any 
money and investments in your Account(s).
Therefore, Mr R was responsible for paying any taxes that were due on his investments. Mr 
R feels that tax should not have been due on the distribution and so the above terms is 
irrelevant. Whilst I appreciate Mr R thinks the distribution should be classified as a non-
taxable capital payment rather than a taxable dividend payment, its not my role to determine 
this. Instead my role is to look at the actions II has taken and to determine whether it has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint. 
Ultimately, II didnt make the classification of the distribution. Neither did it determine tax was 
payable and it didnt make the deduction. This was all done prior to II receiving Mr Rs 
distribution. I understand Mr R feels strongly that the distribution shouldnt have been taxable 
and has provided an email from the fund provider confirming that it didnt deduct the tax. 
However, this email doesnt prove that there was any error in the classification of the 
distribution. Rather the fund provider explained in the email that tax deductions are made at 
a custodial level and not at source. The fund provider also said:I am unsure what you mean when you say it is not a dividend, but I can confirm that 
from a tax basis it was classified as long term capital gains. So while the tax rates 
may vary, it is in fact a taxable event.
This comment from the fund provider strongly suggests Mr Rs distribution was subject to US 
tax. The announcement details issued by the fund provider is silent on whether tax is 
deductible, so I still think its unclear whether tax has fairly been deducted from Mr Rs 
distribution.
Regardless, I dont think it was unfair for II to rely upon the information it was provided from 
its custodian, especially considering at no point has it been established that the custodian or 
even sub-custodians has made an error. Even if it was established than an error had been 
made by IIs custodian or a sub-custodian, I dont necessarily think it would be fair to hold II 
responsible for this as II had no control over whether the deduction should be made or not. It 
could only take action afterwards which Im satisfied it did. And having done so, I understand 
II is of the opinion that the distribution was correctly classified as a dividend, by which tax 
would be due unless Mr Rs own personal circumstances made him eligible for a reclaim 
which he would need to take up directly with the IRS. II has provided Mr R with the relevant 
paperwork to contact the IRS and so I think its Mr Rs responsibility to make enquiries with 
the IRS if he wants to pursue this further. 
I also understand that II had previously been able to sort out another tax issue Mr R had 
regarding one of his investments. In his submission to our service he explained:
On 20 July 2018 I received $39,196.45 from the tender offer which was 15% short of 
the amount due because the custodian had withheld dividend tax. I pointed this 
error out. On 21 March 2019 I received the wrongfully withheld $6,917.02 as a tax 
adjustment.
Just because II had been able to help Mr R with a previous tax issue doesnt necessarily 
mean it should be able to help in this instance. II has explained that the previous issue 
wasnt in regard to a dividend payment or a capital distribution. Instead it was regarding IIs 
custodian issuing a payment classified as a tender offer which was a taxable event as 
standard and subject to tax. However, II has explained that Mr R was eligible for a tax 
reclaim based on his tax circumstances and so he completed the necessary form to reclaim 
the tax paid. He submitted this to II and it in turn passed this on through its custodian chain. 
Clearly this previous issue differs from the one Mr R has complained about. The payment in 
his previous issue was not reclassified by the company, but it was his own personal 
circumstances that made him eligible for the tax reclaim. As a tender offer can be reclaimed, 
II were able to assist with this  whereas a dividend payment cannot be reclaimed in the 
same way as they are different types of event. Regardless, as Ive explained above, its only 
Mr Rs opinion that this dividend payment should never have been taxed, nothing issued by 
IIs custodian or in any the documentation that Ive seen or from any information provided by 
a tax authority supports this opinion. Therefore I think Mr Rs only recourse is to raise a 
dispute directly to the IRS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Interactive Investor Services 
Limited.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman