DRN-3989076
The complaint
Mr K complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled a claim he made to it in respect of a 
purchase made on his credit card.
What happened
The background facts of this complaint are well known to the parties so I am covering them 
briefly here and focusing on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr K made two transactions on his credit card to a retailer (the supplier) for home 
improvement items. The transactions were in November and December 2019 respectively.
Mr K says what he bought is faulty/of poor quality and he wants a refund along with 
consequential losses. He contacted HSBC around May 2021 to raise a claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
HSBC looked into his claim but didnt uphold it and told Mr K in July 2021. Mr K complained 
about the way HSBC had handled things and it responded. Mr K then sent in further 
information. HSBC looked at things again but didnt uphold the claim.
In summary, HSBC concluded that Mr K didnt follow the retailer instructions so there werent 
grounds for upholding his Section 75 claim. It did acknowledge some customer service 
failings of its own though and paid Mr K £100 in compensation.
Mr K referred his complaint about the handling of the Section 75 claim to this service in 
November 2022. Our investigator concluded:
HSBC had not made an error in not upholding the claim because the requirements 
for a valid Section 75 claim (specifically the financial limits in respect of the cash 
price of an item) had not been met; 
she was only able to look at some of Mr Ks concerns with HSBCs handling of the 
claim as he had referred others to this service too late; and 
considering what this service was able to look into the £100 compensation which 
HSBC has paid is fair and reasonable.
Mr K disagrees. In summary, he says:
his purchase is within the financial limits for a valid claim as he didnt buy a few items 
for decorative purposes but many for use over the same large area and all of these 
are faulty;
his time and money spent on evidence gathering was wasted by HSBC and amounts 
to more than £100 compensation; and
he is within his rights for all aspects of his case to be considered as he went back to 
HSBC to contest its reasoning and shouldnt be penalised for trying to resolve things 
amicably.
The matter has come to me to make a decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but I wont be commenting on all of 
it  only what I consider to be particularly relevant. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but 
reflects my role resolving disputes informally.
I also note that Mr K has raised some things which are in respect of wider regulatory issues 
such as HSBCs customer grievance processes. While I have considered the requirement for 
HSBC to treat Mr K fairly, and the circumstances around his particular complaint I will not be 
commenting on the wider regulatory issues he has raised here because this service is not a 
regulator.
What I am considering here
Our investigator has explained this service is only able to consider some aspects of the 
handling of the Section 75 claim which Mr K is unhappy about. It is because some were 
dealt with by HSBC previously and Mr K didnt refer them to this service in time. Namely the 
complaint dealt with in HSBCs Final Response dated 24 November 2021 and as reiterated 
in the follow up (which reminded Mr K of his referral rights) on 5 January 2022. The 
complaint in this instance is essentially about HSBCs initial claim handling and the intial 
outcome which it gave (not upholding the claim and saying that in order to do so it would 
require further information).  
I have considered this jurisdiction matter and agree that because Mr K referred his complaint 
about the issues covered in the Final Response dated 24 November 2021 to this service on 
7 November 2022 it is too late to consider it under our DISP rules (as set out in the FCA 
Handbook) which give him 6 months to refer his complaint to us unless exceptional 
circumstances apply. I also note HSBC has not consented to this service considering this 
complaint either.
Mr K thinks this service should be looking at these matters because he maintained a 
dialogue with HSBC throughout. While I understand his reason for not referring the matter to 
us sooner (i.e. he wanted to sort things out with HSBC and sent it further information so it 
could reconsider his Section 75 claim) he was on notice of the timescale he had to refer his 
complaint to us. Nothing in HSBCs correspondence following the Final Response letter in 
November 2021 indicates that it was extending the time for Mr Ks complaint to be referred 
to this service. Overall, looking at what Mr K has said I dont think exceptional circumstances apply for him referring his initial complaint about the claim handling to this service late. So I 
am unable to consider it here.
For clarity  in this decision I will be covering the later complaint points as dealt with in 
HSBCs subsequent Final Response letters from 11 May 2022 and 8 June 2022 (and 
reiterated in its follow up letters) namely:
HSBCs customer service in respect of the additional information Mr K sent it from 
early 2022 so it could then re-consider the Section 75 claim; and
the claim outcome following HSBCs re-consideration of the claim.
Does Mr K have a valid Section 75 claim?
It is important to note that HSBC is not the supplier of goods in this case. So when deciding 
what it should do in respect of the quality of those goods I am considering its role as a 
provider of financial services only.
I note Mr K has not made any submissions around chargeback. However, for completeness I 
note it is quite clear to me that when Mr K got in touch with HSBC he was too late to raise a 
chargeback under the relevant rules. So this was not a viable option.
In this case, HSBC was potentially liable for wrongdoing of the retailer through a Section 75 
claim which is a legal right. I note that this is the claim Mr K made to it.
If Section 75 applies then HSBC are legally responsible for a like claim which Mr K has 
against the supplier for breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of an agreement 
for goods financed by the credit card. However, for Section 75 to apply certain legal 
requirements need to be met as set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. One of those is in 
respect of the cash price of the goods.
The law says that Section 75 does not apply:
so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price 
not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000 
In this case I am not persuaded what Mr K bought here can reasonably be taken as a single 
item which the supplier attached a cash price exceeding £100. From the evidence I have 
seen including the invoices and the suppliers website I am persuaded that:
Mr K purchased 117 separate items (9 on one occasion and 108 on another) and 
was free to purchase the amount he wanted vs having to purchase a set quantity 
together; and
for the purposes of Section 75 the supplier attached an individual cash price to each 
item Mr K purchased (not exceeding £100) rather than selling and pricing these as a 
package.
I acknowledge Mr K has said he was using all the items together so they should essentially 
be considered one item  but I dont think that means he has a valid Section 75 claim. 
Ultimately each of the 117 items was sold separately as discrete units and not as a total 
package (each with a cash price attached on the website) which could be used together (or 
not) in varying quantities. For the purposes of the relevant law I consider the single item 
here to be each individually priced item - not the collective of all the items taken together 
even if putting these together on a shopping list means the total transaction might exceed £100.
In conclusion I dont consider that the requirements are met for a valid Section 75 claim 
here. So even though HSBC agreed to look into the claim for Mr K, and consider if the 
supplier was in breach of contract it wasnt obliged to do so here. Therefore, it went further 
than it would have been expected to. So even though it didnt uphold his claim for other 
reasons, in light of the fact that Mr K doesnt actually have a valid Section 75 claim against 
HSBC, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to now say that HSBC made a mistake here 
in not upholding his claim.
Customer service
I know Mr K is unhappy with the customer service he received from HSBC. For the reasons 
outlined above I am only looking at the more recent customer service he got as a result of 
sending HSBC more information in the first part of 2022. From this I can see that HSBC 
were not as responsive as they should have been to emails Mr K had sent in  and did not 
return a call. This would no doubt have been frustrating for him. I have thought about this but 
I also think his overall frustration is largely because HSBC did not uphold his claim and how 
he didnt think it looked into things enough or give him detailed enough reasons for declining. 
I think HSBC did explain sufficiently why it was declining the claim, and I dont think it is fair 
to award Mr K for disappointment in receiving a declined claim  nor the time he has spent 
putting together his case. I also take into account that HSBC did apologise to Mr K about the 
customer service issues he encountered. So overall I think the £100 it has paid him is fair.
I note Mr K has recently said HSBC should have told him that the Section 75 claim was 
outside the financial limits. And by not doing so it has caused him to waste time and get 
evidence like expert information. I have thought about this but I think it is unreasonable to 
penalise HSBC for looking into the alleged breach of contract when it wasnt obliged to do 
so. I know Mr K now believes he has wasted his time in gathering evidence but:
I dont think HSBC would have likely been in a position to comment on financial limits 
until much later on in any event (around the time Mr K sent in extra information 
around February 2022) and by which time Mr K had already got his evidence 
together;
he could have referred this matter to this service after HSBCs initial outcome on the 
claim in July 2021 but chose to pursue the matter with HSBC (where there was still a 
reasonable possibility his claim could have been upheld); and
had HSBC declined to look into things from the start Mr K would likely have needed 
to gather similar evidence for any dispute in any event (Mr K appeared to be willing to 
take the supplier to court as he had sent it a letter before action).
So I dont think any further compensation is due here. I can understand Mr K feels strongly 
about this case. I am sorry to hear about the impact he has described on him and his family. 
But my decision in respect of HSBC doesnt mean he cannot consider alternative ways of 
pursuing his dispute such as court action against the supplier. If he wishes to consider this 
he should get appropriate legal advice.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman