DRN-3617234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has 
handled their claim following an escape of water. 
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a third party but I will refer to Mr and Mrs W throughout.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their home insurance following an escape 
of water. Mr and Mrs W instructed a plumber who identified a leaking pipe under the 
concrete floor. Water had leaked into a number of downstairs rooms causing extensive 
damage to the flooring. 
Admiral accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim on their behalf. 
Mr and Mrs W instructed a loss assessor to act for them. The loss assessor requested a 
building surveyor to oversee the work due to the extent of the damage.  Admiral didnt think 
this was necessary and arranged for a restoration company to strip out the affected rooms 
and begin drying out the property. 
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint to Admiral. They said that a surveyor should be appointed 
to oversee the work before any work commences  and that this is covered under the policy. 
Admirals position is that they have never said they wont instruct a surveyor simply that its 
not necessary at this stage. They said it may be of benefit later in order to agree the 
reinstatement schedule. They said they were guided by the restoration company who had 
consulted their own surveyor before agreeing the strip out and drying works. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought it was for Admiral to decide how to 
deal with the claim and didnt think It was unreasonable for Admiral not to appoint a surveyor 
at this early stage. Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for this service to tell insurers how to run their claims. We can, however, consider 
whether an insurer has acted reasonably and fairly when dealing with a claim. Admiral have 
accepted Mr and Mrs Ws claim under the policy so what Im looking at is whether it was 
reasonable for Admiral to refuse to appoint a surveyor at an early stage of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs W say that its not the insurers decision to set out when a surveyor can be used. 
If a claim warrants it, they say that Admiral should support the policyholders decision to 
appoint a surveyor. Whether it is warranted is key  and there is disagreement between the 
parties about whether it is. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy. Whilst the policy doesnt set 
out when a surveyor should be used, it does say that Admiral can decide how to handle the 
claim. Section 1 says that Admiral will decide how to settle your claim. The policy goes on 
to say We are entitled to: .. appoint loss adjusters or other experts, inspect damage, and 
arrange for repairs or replacements. Its also states that costs incurred by the policyholder 
will not be covered if they are not agreed with Admiral first. So I think its clear from the 
policy that its Admirals decision how to handle and settle a claim  and what experts to 
appoint. 
Mr and Mrs W say that professional fees are covered under the policy, and I agree. The 
policy says When dealing with a claim for loss or damage due to a buildings insured risk, 
we will pay the following: Architects, surveyors and consulting engineers fees  However, 
it doesnt say that such experts must be instructed. I think this is a decision for Admiral in the 
individual circumstances of each claim  and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
their decision not to appoint a surveyor was unreasonable.  Not all claims will require the 
appointment of experts and I would expect Admiral to keep this under review throughout the 
claim  something which they said they would do. 
It is suggested by Mr and Mrs W that not having a qualified chartered surveyor assess the 
damage could affect the sale of their property in future and that they might have to provide 
some form of indemnity to potential purchasers. Ive not seen any evidence that this would 
be an issue  but in any event Admiral havent said that they wont instruct a surveyor at a 
later stage. 
Mr and Mrs W say they are not suitably qualified to oversee the claim. Whilst I understand 
their concerns, Admiral have appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim and a 
restoration company to handle the stripping out work and drying. The restoration company 
also consulted their own surveyor when considering what work was required. Whilst these 
experts might not have the same scope as a building surveyor who oversees the whole 
claim, I think Admiral have taken reasonable steps to manage the claim at this stage. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs W went on to instruct their own building surveyor and say that 
Admiral have denied the use of a surveyor throughout their claim. However, Im only dealing 
with the complaint not to appoint a surveyor at the strip out and drying stage. This is the 
complaint that was made to Admiral and I dont think it fair for me to consider wider issues 
which Admiral have not had an opportunity to comment on. If Mr and Mrs W feel there is an 
ongoing complaint, this is something they can raise separately with Admiral  and bring to 
this service if theyre not happy with Admirals response.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I dont think that Admiral have acted unreasonably 
in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman