DRN-4296006
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled the renewal of his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
For several years, Mr M had motor insurance with UKI. For the year from 12 May 2022, he 
had a UKI policy.
Mr M was suffering a relationship breakdown and medical issues. 
Mr M didnt receive a renewal invitation. 
On about 12 May 2023, UKI renewed the policy and took payment of about £366.00 from the  
payment card of Mr Ms building society account, over-drawing it.
He contacted UKI to complain and he cancelled the renewed policy.
Mr M contacted UKI again and asked to get reinstated as a customer. But he says UKI 
quoted over £850.00.
By a final response dated late May 2023, UKI said that it had failed to generate the renewal 
invitation. It said it was sending Mr M £100.00.
Mr M brought his complaint to us without delay. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
there had been no financial impact. He thought that the compensation was fair for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
When he contacted UKI, it offered to reduce the cost to £315.00. But he rejected it 
through anger and frustration. He hit back by cancelling the policy.
He looked elsewhere. Because of these events, the best cover price he could find is 
over £500.00.
That is not a one- off situation, it's a cross he has to bear for years to come, all 
because of UKIs error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI made an omission with the renewal letter, and I dont condone that. It came at a bad 
time for Mr M. 
He didnt get a reminder to contact UKI to discuss renewal and the cost for the next year. 
Instead, UKI had increased his premium and taken payment without warning, at a time when 
Mr M didnt have enough money in his account to cover it, so he incurred charges on the 
account. So I can see why Mr M was upset.
However, Mr M chose to cancel the policy. And he has shown us that his building society 
refunded its charges. 
Different insurers assess and price risk in different ways at different times. As it was Mr M, 
rather than UKI , who initiated the cancellation, I see no reason to think that UKI affected the 
prices quoted by other insurers.
Although he changed his mind about cancelling with UKI, I dont find that UKI treated Mr M 
unfairly by saying that it couldnt reinstate the policy (at a similar premium or at all).
UKI has shown us evidence that the new price it quoted Mr M was based on different 
information to the renewal. I accept that the price wouldve applied equally to any other 
consumer presenting the same information. So I cant say that UKIs pricing treated Mr M 
unfairly. And of course, he didnt pay the price UKI quoted.
I see no reason to think that UKIs error will affect the prices that UKI or other insurers may 
quote for future years.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr M compensation for any financial 
loss. 
I dont under-estimate the extra distress and inconvenience UKIs mistake caused Mr M at 
an already difficult time for him. However, I consider that the impact of the mistake was quite 
short-lived. Im satisfied that UKIs payment of £100.00 was fair and reasonable for Mr Ms  
extra distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman