DRN-3500040
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Corgi Homeplan Ltd (Corgi) arranged his home emergency 
policy. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr P bought a home emergency policy from Corgi. 
During March-June 2021 Mr P made claims under this policy, some of which have been the 
subject of a separate complaint against the insurance company because Mr P wasnt happy 
with the way theyd been dealt with. That complaint was resolved earlier in 2022.
This complaint only relates to how Mr P bought the policy. In his complaint, Mr P said they 
shouldnt have taken my contract if they werent going to do that sort of thing. which I take to 
mean Mr P thinks Corgi mis-sold him the policy because it didnt resolve all of the claims 
hed made.
When Mr P complained to Corgi, Corgi didnt uphold it. Corgi said itd provided the policy on 
a non-advised basis, which means Mr P had chosen to buy the policy. Corgi werent able to 
listen to the call when Mr P had taken out the policy because it had been deleted due to the 
passage of time, but it did say in its normal sales calls it would provide a customer with the 
main terms and conditions over the phone. 
Corgi said itd then sent him his policy documents and given him a cooling-off period during 
which time he could have cancelled without penalty.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. He said hed only expect Corgi to tell Mr P about the most 
important terms and conditions, not all of them. The reason for the cooling-off period was so 
Mr P could check the policy for himself and judge whether he thought it suitable. 
He also said he thought the terms and conditions of Corgis policy were fair and reasonable 
and in line with the rest of the market.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, and Ill explain why.
Ive not been able to listen to Mr Ps call when he originally bought his policy from Corgi 
because Corgi have told this service it routinely deletes the recordings when they are 12 
months old.
What Corgi have done is provide evidence of how its call handlers handle a call, and I can 
see from this evidence that the agent would have given Mr P a limited summary of the key 
features and exclusions of the policy. The agent would then explain that policy documents 
would be sent outlining the full cover.
Mr P would have indicated he was happy to proceed on this basis and the policy would then 
be set up.
Its then for Mr P to read his cover and satisfy himself that the cover he has bought is 
suitable for his needs, which is why Corgi include a cooling-off period in case it isnt. 
This is a standard way of setting up a policy like this in the insurance industry and I am 
happy that Corgi have acted fairly and reasonably in setting up Mr Ps policy in this way. 
Its also Mr Ps contention that Corgis policy didnt provide him with the service that hed 
expected. From the evidence I have, its my understanding that one of Mr Ps particular 
areas for complaint is that the construction of his home meant that people working on it 
might have to work in an underfloor void. Having attended his home in the claims mentioned 
above, Corgis engineers declined to enter the void to locate and fix a leak. 
In Corgis policy, there is an exclusion saying:
Difficult or Dangerous Repair
If the CORGI HomePlan engineer cannot gain access or considers that the 
circumstances to carry out the work are potentially difficult or dangerous or where 
there is a risk to health or safety, (e.g. where work is required in a loft space and 
permanent boards, railings, lighting or ladders are not in place) the CORGI 
HomePlan engineer may at their discretion discontinue the repair.
Mr P has pointed out that he was able to find a third-party supplier to locate and fix this 
particular leak. But I cant say its unreasonable for Corgi to have this exclusion in its policy 
and have applied it to the relevant claims, and as Ive already said, its for Mr P to decide 
whether he thinks the policy is suitable for himself. 
Mr P is, of course, free to change to another provider in the marketplace if hes not happy 
with the cover and service he gets from one particular provider, but I cant say Corgi have 
acted unfairly by mis-selling this policy to Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman