DRN-4050831
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plcs irresponsibly gave her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 7 March 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 21 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plcs irresponsibly gave her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss G called Santander as she thought she might be able to consolidate
her debt by securing a £25000 loan with a 3% APR and a monthly repayment figure of £448
over 5 years.
When Miss G spoke to a Santander agent, she was offered a loan for the same amount and
period but with a higher APR of 11.9%.
Miss G took out this loan but, in April 2022, she complained to Santander about irresponsible
lending. Miss G said Santander should never have given her the loan as the high monthly
payments have pushed her further into debt. Miss G explained she had to borrow more to be
able to make the payments from her salary.
Miss G also complained that the APR wasnt the rate initially promoted and asked Santander
to refund the interest and any charges paid. In addition, for Santander to pay interest and
delete any negative information from her credit record.
Santander didnt agree. They said their agent had confirmed the APR and Miss G had
agreed the loan was affordable. Also, they had relied on the income and expenditure details
she had stated being factually correct.
Miss G complained to our service and our investigators view was that Santanders lending
decision was unfair. He said Miss G should only have to repay the money she borrowed and
had the use of, and Santander should refund all of the interest and charges. Also, they
should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Gs credit file.
As Santander disagree this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable irresponsible lending
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice on our website.
I first looked at whether Santander completed reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Miss G would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
I found that Santander did complete checks to see if the loan was affordable. On the 17
January 2020 call, their agent asked Miss G for income and expenditure information and
Santander completed verification checks before it approved the loan.
Miss G stated her net income was £3100, her outgoings were £2000 which included rent and
all other expenditure. Also, regarding consolidation, when Miss G realised the APR would
make the loan £547.26 per month (£99.29 per month higher than the promotion she saw),
when accepting, she said her consolidated loans were £666 per month which works out
cheaper.
So, based on what Miss G told Santander about her income and expenditure, as well as her
plans to use the loan to consolidate her existing credit (a loan and credit cards), the
Santander representative calculated she would still have monthly disposable income of
£552.74.
I think it was reasonable for the agent to be satisfied that Miss G had enough disposable
income and could pay the loan off in a sustainable way. Although I cant see that Santander
subsequently requested detailed information from Miss G on her income expenditure, I found
that as part of their affordability assessment they considered credit reports and compared
Miss Gs stated expenditure with data reports. I think this was reasonable and although there
was an anomaly, as Santander didnt have mortgage guarantor information, Im satisfied with
their creditor calculations and expenditure verification steps.
I then looked at Miss Gs actual income and expenditure information and with the exception
of her income, which was £271 less than the amount she stated, I couldnt see any
significant difference to Santanders affordability assessment. So, I cant say that Santander
have acted either unfairly or unreasonably here.
I considered whether Santander shouldve checked Miss Gs income. However, Im satisfied
the figure was accepted in good faith and, even with this income anomaly, I found Miss G
wouldve still had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
Finally, I considered Miss Gs request to have a refund of the interest and any charges paid
because the APR wasnt the amount initially promoted when signing up.
From listening to the 17 January 2020 call, although Miss G did enquire about a lower APR
of 3%, she said she wasnt sure she would be able to get this. In response Santanders
agent stated that the APR may vary and, when he later offered a much higher APR of 11.9%
which meant the loan was £99.29 per month higher than Miss G hoped for, she clearly
accepted this. So, whilst I appreciate the lower APR wouldve made a big difference to Miss
Gs monthly outgoings, Im satisfied Santander didnt make any error here.
Whilst I appreciate Miss G will be disappointed, when considering all the above, Im satisfied
Santander acted reasonably in performing the checks it did and that they made a made a fairdecision to lend. So, Im not upholding this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, it's my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 21 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
I received a response from both parties.
Santander said they had nothing further to add.
Miss G responded with a number of points, including the following:
She explained the hardship, distress and health issues that had been caused by her 
debt 
She stated that she was technically £119 better off a month after using the 
Santander loan to pay off my loan and other cards, but I was still in the same 
situation where I did not have enough money left from my salary to survive. Also, 
Santander should have refused the loan on the basis that that £119 difference was 
not substantial enough for me not to have to rely on credit cards in order to live day 
to day. They should have carried out more due diligence, asking to see my pay slips 
in order to be sure my monthly income matched what they had on their systems. 
She feels Santander shouldve recognised a pattern of behaviour clearly laid out in 
my credit report and that they had an opportunity to stop this cycle but instead they 
used me as a way to generate over £7,000 of interest. 
She commented that people with an average to good credit rating are given 
extortionate rates rather than the advertised ones are testament to how they see 
people like me - everyday people struggling to survive - as an easy mark.
She requested I look beyond the numbers provided by Santander to see the story 
behind them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by thanking Miss G for her response. Also, I would like to point out that whilst I have 
empathy for Miss Gs situation, my role here is to be impartial  that is, to be objective and to 
be fair to both parties.
With regards to Miss Gs income and her comments that Santander should have carried out 
more due diligence checks, as mentioned in my provisional decision, I think it was 
reasonable for Santander to accept the information supplied by Miss G in good faith. Also, 
even with the income anomaly, I found that Miss G wouldve still had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan. 
Miss G says that she was relying on credit cards in order to live day to day. However, when 
she applied for the loan, she said it was affordable and that she had enough disposable 
income. Also, when accepting the higher APR, she said the loan was to consolidate her 
debts and would improve her financial position.
I looked again at all the information on file including the credit report and Santanders affordability assessment and I remain satisfied that their checks and lending decision were 
proportionate and reasonable. 
So, having considered everything again including Miss Gs response, although I empathise 
with her difficult situation, I cant see that Santander acted unfairly here so Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman