DRN-2495960
The complaint
 Mr D complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours Student Loans 
(HSL) went back on an agreement to settle his student loan debt. He wants it to write off all 
his remaining debts on the loans. 
Mr D tell us that he agreed with HSL that he would repay arrears on a student loan in order 
to enable the remaining balance on the loan to be cancelled upon his 50th birthday. And that 
he later received a letter from HSL saying he didnt owe anything further. Mr D explains that 
he later received another letter from HSL indicating that he still had an outstanding debt of 
more than £2,700 which it required him to pay. He says that when he received the first letter, 
and thought his debts had been cancelled, by way of celebration he posted on social media 
that he was free of his student debt. He says he would lose reputation if he now announced 
that this wasnt correct.
HSL told us that Mr D had four student loans. But due to the accounts being registered 
under different addresses they hadnt been identified as belonging to the same person, Mr 
D. And it explained that the terms and conditions had required Mr D to advise of any change 
of address. It said that when it had agreed a payment arrangement with Mr D it had done so 
only in respect of one loan held under account reference xxx713. And that it was only later 
that it had identified that Mr D also had three loans held under a different account reference. 
It said the arrears had been incurred when the accounts were not subject to a period of 
deferment. And that as Mr D still had arrears, hed benefitted from account xxx713 being 
written off when it should not have been.
HSL also explained that it had offered to retrospectively apply a deferment period to account 
xxx710 which would reduce the arrears from around £2,740 to just over £1,437. And that it 
had extended the maturity date (which would potentially allow for a further period of 
deferment). It said that if Mr D agreed to pay off the arrears (£1,437) within a reasonable 
period of time it would write off the remaining balance even though it was entitled to the full 
amount (£2,740).
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 December 2020. I said that I intended 
to uphold Mr Ds complaint but only to a limited extent. I said I felt that HSLs revised offer to 
reduce the arrears figure had been fair and reasonable.
Both parties have now replied and I thank them for their responses. Mr D confirmed his 
acceptance of the provisional decision. HSL acknowledged that it had broadly reflected its 
revised offer.
In the light of the responses of the parties, I see no reason to change my provisional view 
which is largely repeated in my final decision set out below. 
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it would come as a disappointment to Mr D to be advised that he still had 
an outstanding debt to repay from his student loans when he thought these wouldve been 
written off once hed turned 50 year of age.
Summarised, Mr Ds complaint is that he was misled by HSL into believing that all his 
student debt loans would be treated as settled upon his 50th birthday. And having received 
this assurance he doesnt think it fair that HSL should still be chasing him for payments.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Student loans contain provisions that dont apply to many other types of loan. Briefly 
summarised, they allow for payments to be deferred if the borrowers annual income is 
below a certain level. Applications for deferment have to be made each year. And, 
dependent upon when the loans were made and the borrowers age, they can, in limited 
circumstances, be written off. Put simply, in Mr Ds case he wouldve been entitled to have 
the remaining balances on the loans written off if there were no arrears when he attained 50 
years of age.
From the information with which Ive been supplied, it seems that Link took over the 
administration of these accounts - whilst retaining the HSL name - in 2016. And it appears 
that the information with which it was provided didnt enable it to initially identify all of Mr Ds 
accounts as belonging to him. Its this which probably led to the misunderstandings about 
the status of the accounts. Not only were the addresses on the accounts different there 
seems to have been an issue over the date of birth and Mr Ds first name was recorded in a 
slightly different form. But its not disputed that Mr D took out all the four loans which are 
covered within these account references.
In 2017 Mr D applied for and was granted a deferment in respect of loan xxx713. And its not 
unreasonable to think that hed be aware that when making that application he would know 
hed only completed one application form as opposed to the usual two.
Its also not in dispute that in order to have the remaining debt written off from the account 
reference xxx713, Mr D entered into a payment arrangement which saw him pay off just over 
£500 arrears from the account. And the remaining balance was then cancelled.
HSL has explained that at the time the payment arrangement was made it hadnt identified 
that Mr D was liable for the other loans. And that if it had been aware of this, the loan under 
account xxx713 wouldnt have been written off. And the letter dated 6 April 2018 which 
indicated that Mr Ds loan has been written off clearly referenced one account only. Which 
was the account held under reference xxx713.
Looking at the overall circumstances, I find that Mr D knew or ought reasonably to have 
known, that he still had arrears on account xxx710. Hed previously successfully applied for 
periods of deferment relating to that account - as well as account xxx713 - over many years.This involved completing separate deferment applications. It seems improbable that he 
wouldnt have realised there were other accounts on which balances were owed. And I 
conclude that he had no reasonable expectation that the loans under account reference 
xxx710 would be written off.
Following our investigators view, HSL responded with an offer which - if Mr D had accepted -
was actually in excess of what our investigator had recommended. 
As he was entitled to do, Mr D didnt accept the investigators view or HSLs revised offer 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. Having read the complaint file and 
prior to writing this decision I also sent my initial thoughts to Mr D. 
I explained that once a case had been referred to an ombudsman that - as an ombudsmans 
decision involves an independent review - there was no guarantee that a decision would 
result in an award to match or better the offer that HSL had made.
I dont think that any social media posting is something that I should consider to be material 
in determining the outcome of this complaint. What an individual chooses to make public 
about what would otherwise be private information is a personal choice. In my opinion, it 
cant properly be considered to be relevant to the issue of whether or not a debt is 
repayable. And Ive not seen the content of the actual post or a screen shot. So Im unable to 
say why Mr D feels he would suffer a loss of reputation if he posted notice of the change. Or 
why he should feel the need to do so if it risked such an outcome.
HSLs offer was conditional upon Mr D supplying information about the social media posting 
 and I cant see thats been supplied - so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold HSL to 
that offer.
As Mr D wouldve been entitled to deferment for the three remaining loans if hed applied for 
it, I think its fair and reasonable that the applicable reduction should be allowed. But I shant 
require HSL to make any further reduction in relation to the debt owed by Mr D. HSL 
confirms this is £1,437.32.
Whilst HSL accepted that it didnt identify that all the accounts belonged to Mr D, I think its 
provided a plausible explanation as to why this occurred. So any error was relatively minor.
I think what amounts to applying the period of deferment retrospectively is sufficient to reflect 
this. And no further compensation is required.
Although I dont have complete details of Mr Ds financial situation, I dont think its likely he 
will be able to pay off the arrears in one lump sum. So Id hope the parties can reach an 
affordable and sustainable agreement for repayments of the arrears. HSL has indicated its 
happy to assist with this process.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr D repaying arrears relating to account xxx710, Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited trading as Honours Student Loans should write off the remaining balance on this 
account.  
My final decision
 Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Honours Student Loans made an offer which I think was fair and reasonable. I now require it to take the following action.
Upon repayment of the total arrears on agreement ending xxx710 - £1,437.32 - it should 
write off the remaining balance of the loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman