DRN-3847859
The complaint
Miss W complains about the time it took for Domestic & General Insurance Plc to deal with 
her claim when her mobile phone was stolen. Shes also unhappy about the level of 
customer service she received.
What happened
Miss W has insurance cover for her phone with D&G. She called D&G on 26 June 2022 to 
make a claim as her phone had been stolen. The circumstances of the theft were quite 
traumatic for Miss W as the phone was grabbed from her hand by a passing motorcyclist, as 
she was making a call. When she first spoke to D&G Miss W was told that their Claims team 
would contact her within two hours.
Miss W called D&G back as she hadnt heard from the claims team within two hours. She 
was then told she should have been told the Claims team wouldnt call her before Monday, 
as they didnt work weekends, and shed reported the theft on a Sunday. A complaint was 
raised as Miss W wasnt happy that no one had contacted her about her claim.
Miss W called D&G again on 29 June as she hadnt heard from the Claims team. Her claim 
was accepted on D&Gs system and she paid her £75 policy excess. D&G apologised for the 
delay, but Miss W wasnt given any timeframe for processing her claim. She told them shed 
bought a cheap replacement phone, as she needed a phone for work.
The call was transferred through to the Complaints team and Miss W told them their advisors 
had provided inconsistent and incorrect information. D&G apologised for this and agreed to 
refund the policy excess Miss W had just paid.
Miss W called D&G again on 6 July 2022 as she was still waiting for her replacement phone. 
D&G agreed to chase this for her.
She called D&G again on 8 July 2022. The advisor she spoke to checked with their suppliers 
and told Miss W they didnt have a replacement phone in stock. She was told theyd normally 
allow seven days to provide a replacement, and as this hadnt been possible, theyd be 
looking to provide a cash settlement. Miss W told them she had the phone on a contract, and 
shed have to check with her provider to see if a cash settlement was acceptable. She was 
told the product replacement team would contact her, this would normally be within 24 hours, 
but as it was Friday, this was likely to be the following Monday. D&Gs records show that 
their agent contacted their suppliers on 8 July 2022 and chased them on 11 July 2022.
Miss W called D&G for an update on 13 July 2022 as she hadnt heard further about the 
cash settlement. The first call was unproductive as she wanted to talk about her claim and 
the advisor was asking questions about her complaint. Miss W wanted to be transferred to 
someone else as she said the advisor was rude to her. She was told if she wanted to speak 
to someone else, shed need to call back. She said she was going to raise a complaint about 
the call.
Miss W called back as shed been told to and spoke to a different advisor. They told her they 
couldnt provide an update on her cash settlement and she needed to speak to the product 
replacement team. She couldnt be transferred to them as the department was closed, but 
she was given their direct number to call them the following morning.
Miss W raised a further complaint on 15 July 2022 about the delay in providing a 
replacement phone and about how one of D&Gs advisors had spoken to her on 13 July 
2022. A cash settlement of £1,049 was agreed with Miss W. She was offered £19 on 19 July 
2022 for distress and inconvenience, which was the cost of one months premium on her 
policy.
D&G accept that Miss Ws claim took longer to process than theyd expect but say the policy 
doesnt include a timeframe for repair or replacement. Theyve also said that Miss W wasnt 
without a phone, as she told them shed purchased a replacement.
Miss W wasnt happy with D&Gs response to her complaint and complained to our service. 
Our investigator considered the case but didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said he 
understood her frustration about the delay in settling her claim, which had taken 19 days, but 
he felt the £94 compensation shed received was reasonable.
Miss W wasnt happy with our investigators opinion so the case came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 November 2022 and in it I said: -
Miss W first contacted D&G about her claim on 26 June 2022. Its clear from what shes said 
about the theft of her phone, that this was a traumatic experience. And she wanted a 
replacement phone as quickly as possible. While she told D&G shed bought a pay-as-you- 
go phone, as she needed a phone for work, shed also told them this wasnt reliable, and she 
provided her mothers number for them to contact her on.
D&G have accepted that there was a delay in dealing with Miss Ws claim. Her policy is 
silent about the timescale for providing a replacement phone, but D&G told her theyd 
normally expect this to take about seven days.
I appreciate that there was some delay when D&Gs suppliers couldnt source a replacement 
phone. But registering Miss Ws claim took too long and she had to keep calling them for 
updates when D&G or their suppliers should have been updating her.
Miss Ws claim was registered on 29 June 2022, three days after she first called D&G. The 
advisor she spoke to took a payment for her £75 policy excess. They apologised for the 
delay in processing her claim and put her through to the complaints team. The advisor from 
the complaints team agreed to refund her £75 policy excess as compensation for the delays 
to date.
After 29 June 2022 the delays continued, Miss W had to continue to chase D&G and little 
happened unless she did this. She was told that D&Gs suppliers should have contacted her 
when they werent able to source a replacement phone for her, but this didnt happen.
Miss W called D&G on 13 July 2022 for an update on her claim. She told the advisor that 
shed been promised an email update by 5pm on Friday, she didnt receive this, it was now 
Wednesday, and she still hadnt heard anything. The advisor asked her about her complaint, 
and she said she just wanted an update on her claim.
Miss W says the advisor was rude to her and I agree that he was. Firstly, he wouldnt speak 
as he was waiting for her answer about her complaint, then he spoke over her. And when 
she asked to speak to someone else, he said shed need to hang up and call back. He made no attempt to help her or update her on her claim.
She called back and spoke to another advisor who gave her the contact number for the 
product replacement team and suggested she call them in the morning, as they were 
currently closed. I cant see any reason why the first advisor Miss W spoke to couldnt have 
provided this information.
When D&G provided their final response to Miss Ws claim they upheld her complaint and 
offered a refund of one months premium, which was £19, for the delays and the 
unprofessional manner in which their agent dealt with her call.
I understand that part of the delay in this case was that D&Gs suppliers didnt have the 
replacement phone she needed in stock. But she wasnt kept updated, as D&G have 
acknowledged she should have been, she had to chase before any progress was made and 
the call on 13 July 2022 was handled very poorly.
D&G made it clear in their conversation with Miss W on 29 June 2022 that the refund of her 
policy excess was compensation for delays up to that date. So theyve offered her £19 for 
the further delays, the lack of communication and the unprofessional call on 13 July 2022.
I dont think this properly compensates Miss W. Its clear that shes suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of how her claim has been handled by D&G and I think the 
appropriate level of compensation is £150. This is in addition to the £94 D&G have already 
refunded.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Ws complaint.
D&G have responded to my provisional decision saying that they think nearly £250 for a 
mobile theft claim lasting 19 days is excessive, but if that is my decision they accept it. 
Miss W hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out details of the £94 compensation D&G had offered Miss 
W. £75 of this was for delays up until 29 June 2022. After this date there were further delays, 
the unprofessional call on 13 July 2022 and there was a lack of communication throughout 
the claim, which D&G have acknowledged. D&G only offered Miss W a further £19 
compensation for this. Which Ive said I dont think properly compensates Miss W for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered.
While Ive considered what D&G have said I still think that the compensation D&G have 
offered doesnt take into account the distress and inconvenience Miss W experienced as a 
result of how they handled her claim. And taking into account the ongoing delays after 29 
June 2022, the lack of updates throughout her claim and D&Gs handling of the call on 13 
July 2022 my opinion remains that they should pay her a further £150. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Ws complaint about Domestic & General Insurance Plc.And to put things right I require them to pay her £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced as a result of their poor handling of her claim. This is in addition to the 
£94 theyve already offered her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman