DRN-3475292
The complaint
Miss M complained about advice she received in 1996 to take out a free-standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Miss M says she wanted to increase her pension provision and the recommendations she 
received werent suitable. She implies if shed been given the right information about her 
options, she would have acted differently, including using additional voluntary contributions 
(AVCs) linked to her employers in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS). Miss M 
therefore says she has lost out financially because of this.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has accepted responsibility for answering this complaint. 
Miss M is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. So, to 
keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Aviva and Miss M.
What happened
I issued a second provisional decision (PD) about this case in April 2022 in which I said I 
was still intending to uphold Miss Ms complaint. That PD should be read in conjunction with 
this final decision.
Broadly, I said in the PD that had Miss M been given a fair explanation of the generic 
benefits of her in-house AVC option she would have opted for an in-house alternative as 
this would have given her more valuable benefits than the FSAVC she was sold instead.
I then gave the parties involved a further month to think about what I was intending to do and 
to reply with any further evidence or information they wanted me to consider.
I am grateful for the replies provided in the course of looking at this complaint and I 
apologise its taken a while to reach this stage. However, ultimately none of what has been 
said is new information, but rather, more emphasis on what Aviva had already provided us 
with. Accordingly I am now ready to issue a final decision  I am upholding the complaint, for 
the same reasons I set out in my second PD of April 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M had been employed in the teaching profession since 1990 and had been a member 
of her employers OPS - a large public sector scheme - since starting. It seems that in 
October 1996, she met with an adviser who recommended that she start contributing to an 
FSAVC plan in addition to the OPS she was already a member of. Miss M was 28 years old 
at the time.
As the name suggests, FSAVCs are free standing, which means they are not tied to the 
employer, but typically run alongside the OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with Miss M 
making a monthly contribution of £35.40 (gross). 
Ive considered what was expected of the adviser as they were a tied appointed 
representative of the company at the time. A tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 
1988  called LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The 
LAUTRO Code said advisers should have maintained high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take 
proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question. 
So, this means tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most 
likely be available to consumers like Miss M. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of 
the FSAVC, mention of the generic benefits of the in-house options should have been 
made, including that:
Money purchase in-house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs
Added years might have been available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option
Mentioning these things  to the extent that they applied  was therefore consistent, in my 
view, with having regard to Miss Ms right to contribute to other in-house arrangements and 
also dealing fairly with her.
As a consequence of the meeting that took place between the Aviva adviser and Miss M, a 
Financial Planning Summary was drawn up to formalise and clarify the issues which had 
been discussed; so this was basically a summary of the advice provided. 
In fact, Miss M was advised about a range of other financial areas too, but the part in the 
summary relating to her retirement provision contained only four short paragraphs. In my 
view, this would have been an ideal opportunity to set out the differences involved in the 
options and the charges relating to in-house and / or other options (such as the FSAVC 
plan she was eventually sold). However, I note the only reference to these areas in the 
summary said, you are proceeding with this plan after receiving an explanation of the 
comparative benefits of in-house AVC and FSAVC Plans, and you have received written 
material summarising these.
The question is therefore is was sufficient information given to Miss M to enable her attention 
to be drawn to the other options she had at the time, such as in-house AVCs and their 
benefits? As Ive said, the summary contained very little in this regard so Ive therefore gone 
on to look at the FSAVC brochure (Helping you plan towards a comfortable retirement) 
Miss M was given to read. And whilst I accept there was mention of there being in-house 
alternatives, I think the issues above about her options were given insufficient prominence 
both in the brochure she was given to read and also in the Financial Planning Summary. 
So, while I think the overall information contained in the brochure can be said to be clear and 
it does set out the there are different options available, I dont think simply giving Miss M a 
brochure is enough for me to fairly say that Avivas adviser complied with the regulators 
requirements in this case. The guidance requires a discussion  not just the provision of 
information. And as Ive found, theres simply no evidence to show or imply that the contents 
of the brochure were discussed with her. In my view, the generic differences of the in-house 
AVC option within her teachers OPS - and the FSAVC option - were most likely well known 
to the Aviva adviser and should have been explained to Miss M. I also think the evidence in 
this case strongly implies the adviser would have regularly dealt with those in a very similar 
situation to Miss M, so I think it was known to the adviser the charges under the in-house 
AVCs were likely to be cheaper. It should therefore have been explained that the charges for those AVCs would have 
probably been lower, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission rates or as a result 
of contributions to administration expenses by the employer. In short, I would have expected 
to see reference to charges in the Financial Planning Summary. The summary doesnt 
confirm that such a discussion took place and the brochure gives only a general sense that 
other options might exist without these being put into context for Miss M.
I now need to consider the second question and decide if Miss M has potentially lost out as 
result of the failing identified  i.e. would she have likely acted differently had everything 
happened as it should have and directed her additional pension contribution to her in-house 
scheme instead? I can see that Miss M expected to retire at age 60  but earlier if possible. 
Im also mindful that she was still some way away from her preferred retirement age (it was 
preferred and perhaps not a set intention) and her plans might change.
On the other hand, given the regulators view that a critical factor driving choice between 
FSAVCs and AVCs was the typically lower charges, I that Miss M would have chosen to 
contribute to her in-house AVC scheme had she been properly advised and informed. She 
was a teacher and in my view likely to remain within its employment. So it is for these 
reasons that I think she has lost out because I think she would have more likely contributed 
to her in-house AVC scheme.
Added years
Ive gone on to consider the added years option. Again, no mention at all is made in the 
summary Miss M was given but there is reference to it in the brochure she was given to 
read. Nevertheless, the added years option was quite a different one to the other two 
(FSAVC and AVC) in that it provided certain guaranteed benefits. Typically, with this option, 
the employee commits to pay either a lump sum or a percentage of their future salary into 
the OPS to buy more years. If it is a percentage, the amount paid will increase as the salary 
increases  the percentage remains the same. 
We now know Miss M remained in her occupation and would have no-doubt enjoyed some 
salary increases, but this doesnt necessarily mean she would have purchased added 
years. As a starting point it should be remembered that she only wanted to contribute a 
relatively small amount. And in 1996, when projected investment returns were much higher, 
added years would have seemed expensive compared to AVC-type projected returns. I 
think there is solid evidence here that the flexibility, or otherwise, of this option would have 
also been an important consideration for Miss M as she stated early retirement was 
something she was interested in, although a long way off. Overall, I think this option would 
have seemed less attractive given her particular circumstances of that time. In coming to that 
judgement, Ive also taken account of her age, circumstances and budget.
Summary
Miss M was clear she was on a relatively tight budget and wanted only to contribute a 
moderate amount to her additional pension provision. She had a cautious approach to 
investing and despite being a member of a large OPS, the details of which would have been 
known to the adviser, the benefits of in-house options within that scheme were not made 
clear enough.
So, I consider had Miss M been given a fair explanation of the generic benefits of her in-
house option she would have opted for AVCs as these would have given her more valuable 
benefits than the FSAVC.
I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The compensation for Miss M should be calculated in line with our general approach to 
complaints of this type. Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below, to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be paid 
into Miss Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible, 
or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Miss M as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a 
notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Miss M should 
confirm her tax rate to us 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to use the FCAs FSAVC guidance as I have set out in the section Putting things 
right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman