DRN-2734786
The complaint
Miss D complains about what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put things right 
following her complaint that it mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold PPI alongside three loans she had with RBS 
between 2003 and 2010:
a loan of £17,000 that began in January 2003 and ended in August 2003,
a loan of £12,000 that began in October 2003 and ended in March 2004, and
a loan of £10,000 that began in October 2004 and remained open until August 2010.
RBS investigated Miss Ds complaints, and said they should be upheld. It made offers to 
settle the complaints. After deducting tax, it said the redress would be:
£1,760.20 in respect of the first loan
£1,585.61 in respect of the second loan, and
£484.33 in respect of the final loan.
Miss D says she was advised by a third party claims advisor to accept these offers. She 
signed and returned settlement forms agreeing to them in full and final settlement of her 
complaints.
But Miss D had previously been in a protected trust deed. This is a less formal alternative to 
bankruptcy under Scots law  and meant Miss D didnt need to repay everything she owed 
RBS. RBS says that Miss D hasnt repaid £13,701.58. It proposes to use its offer to reduce 
the amount Miss D hadnt repaid.
Miss D didnt agree with this, and referred the complaint to this service.
An adjudicator looked the complaint, but thought what RBS had done was fair.
Miss D doesnt agree for the following reasons:
She doesnt understand the basis on which the adjudicator reached his view of her 
complaint; she doesnt think this outcome reflects the law or the individual 
circumstances of her complaint.
She thinks her circumstances are similar to those of the debtor in the judgment of the 
Inner House of the Court of Session in Donnelly v. Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] 
CSIH 56, which was upheld following the involvement of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
She doesnt think its fair for RBS to offset the PPI compensation, as the PPI wasnt 
part of her trust deed. Moreover, she says that her debt should have been written off 
on the discharge of the trust deed  and given the time that has passed the debt is 
statute-barred and the debt no longer exists.
She refers me to section 145 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016, which provides 
for the debts and obligations of the debtor to be discharged at the date of 
sequestration.
She also refers me to a paper by the Scottish Government explaining that on 
completion of the trust deed the remaining unpaid debt is written off.
She complaints that this is a violation of her right to property under Article 1 of 
Protocol No. 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights.
She doesnt think the approach the adjudicator has taken is consistent with the 
ombudsman services role as an informal alternative to the courts.
She feels the approach the adjudicator has taken is heavily weighted in favour of 
financial institutions.
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve matters informally, the complaint has been passed 
to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My power to consider this complaint comes from Part XVI of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. Section 225 of that Act provides for a scheme under which certain 
disputes may be resolved quickly and within minimum formality by an independent person. 
Section 228(2) provides that a complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the 
opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And 
where I uphold a complaint, section 229 says I may include, among other things, an award 
against the respondent of such amount as the ombudsman considers fair compensation for 
loss or damage [] suffered by the complainant. 
The basis on which I make decisions is set out in Chapter 3 of the Dispute Resolution rules, 
which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. DISP 3.6.4 states 
that, in considering what is fair and reasonable, the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
RBS has already agreed that the complaint that it mis-sold PPI should be upheld. And 
Miss D hasnt raised any objections to the amounts RBS worked out. So I dont need to look 
at this further in this decision. In this decision, Im looking at whether its fair for RBS to pay 
Miss Ds compensation towards the amount Miss D didnt need to repay following her trust 
deed.
In this case, the relevant law is Scots law. There have been a number of recent court 
judgments looking at what happens to PPI compensation following a trust deed. 
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court 
held that following the completion of that trust deed, the debtor was discharged from his 
debts. In that case, PPI compensation was paid to the consumer rather than to the 
discharged former trustee of the estate for the benefit of the other creditors.And following this judgment, the Inner House of the Court of Session concluded  in 
Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2019] CSIH 56  that a business couldnt use the 
consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged when the 
trust deed came to an end: there was no debt to set-off.
However, afterwards the business sought instead to set aside the discharge of the debtors 
trust deed. In Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106, the Outer House of 
the Court of Session said that if the trustee made a mistake (a material or substantial 
error), then the court could set aside the consumers discharge. And the failure by the 
trustee to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the consumers creditors was clearly a 
mistake: if the trustee had known about the PPI claims, it was inconceivable that the 
trustee would have granted the debtors discharge until that claim was realised as an asset 
for the benefit of the debtors creditors. And as such, the remedy sought by the business 
would normally be granted by the court as a matter of course.
That said, reduction is a discretionary remedy. The court may withhold the remedy in 
exceptional circumstances, when there is some very cogent reason for doing so which 
would make it inconvenient and unjust to grant reduction. In that particular case, the court 
concluded it would be unduly harsh on the consumer to set aside the discharge. This took 
into account a number of factors  including the time since the discharge, the impact the 
litigation had had on the debtor, and the size of the compensation compared to the legal fees 
likely to have been incurred.
Miss D has also referred me to the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016, and a note prepared by 
the Scottish Government during the preparation of the Protected Trust Deed (Scotland) 
Amendment Regulations 2010. Miss Ds trust deed in fact began in 2005 and, I understand, 
ended in 2010. So the relevant statute would have been the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 1985.
Ive thought about all this when looking at Miss Ds complaint.
Assuming the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as in this case, a 
court wouldnt allow RBS to set the PPI compensation against the amount left unpaid 
following the trust deed unless the court first set aside Miss Ds discharge from her trust 
deed. The court might decide not to grant this.
But while I have taken into account the law, I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen, Miss D owed RBS £13,708.58 following the completion of her trust 
deed. This is money that Miss D will never now need to pay RBS, and RBS cannot chase 
Miss D for this money.
But RBS has worked out the compensation for mis-selling PPI would be £3,887.21. This 
amount is a lot less than the amount Miss D didnt need to repay following the trust deed.
Simply put, Miss D owed RBS money, and RBS now owes Miss D money. The trust deed 
was intended to draw a line under matters and allow Miss D to go forward debt free. I dont 
think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Miss D this money directly when, following the trust 
deed, Miss D didnt need to repay a much greater amount of money.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint that a PPI policy was mis-sold should 
be upheld, the compensation I award is intended to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in if they hadnt bought the policy. If Miss D hadnt bought the PPI, I think its likely shed 
still have entered the trust deed. But shed have owed less. And thats the position RBSs 
offer puts her in. Similarly, if her trustee had pursued these complaints while Miss D was in her trust deed, RBS would have been entitled to use the compensation to reduce the amount 
it claimed as part of the arrangement. Either way, Miss D would not have received this 
money directly. Im also mindful that at least some of the cost of the PPI was borrowed as 
part of the one of the loans that Miss D didnt have to repay following her trust deed.
Ive considered Miss Ds comments in response to the adjudicator. I note her comments 
about Donnelly and what she says about the similarities to her own complaint. I decide every 
complaint based on the individual circumstances of that complaint, and no two complaints 
are entirely alike. I cant comment on other complaints brought by other consumers. That 
said, I highlight paragraph 34 of the judgment in Donnelly, where the debtor told the court 
that the bank hadnt told the ombudsman it intended to set off the unpaid balance against the 
PPI compensation  that didnt happen until afterwards. In Miss Ds case, by contrast, thats 
the very thing Ive been asked to decide.
Ive taken into account Miss Ds comments that she was discharged from all her debts when 
she was discharged from the trust deed  and that the debts in any case will be statute 
barred and so will no longer exist. But given that these PPI policies were all taken out 
before Miss D entered the trust deed Im satisfied that, regardless of whether this debt 
technically still exists, its fair for RBS to take it into account when deciding what it needs to 
do to put things right  particularly given that RBS cannot now chase Miss D for this debt.
Similarly, I note what Miss D has said about Article 1 of Protocol No. 1 to the European 
Convention on Human Rights (the right to property), as incorporated into domestic law by 
the Human Rights Act 1998. Miss D is concerned in particular that, if we treat the debt as still 
live, that this also implies that RBS might now take action to recover the debt. I confirm that 
in this decision Im solely looking at whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
complaint about the sale of PPI. I make no broader findings about the discharge of her trust 
deed  that would be a matter for the court.
For all these reasons, I think it would be fair for RBS to use the compensation for mis-selling 
PPI to pay down the amount Miss D didnt repay following her trust deed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc may use the compensation for mis-
selling PPI to repay the amount Miss D didnt repay following her trust deed. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman