DRN-3614356
The complaint
Mrs M (helped by her partner) is bringing a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late
father, Mr W.
Mr W was a customer of National Westminster Bank Plc until his death in late 2017. Mrs M
complains that a number of unauthorised payments were made from Mr Ws account.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was outlined in 
the provisional decision I issued on 7 November 2022.
In summary, after the late Mr Ws death, Mrs M was contacted by NatWests bereavement 
services. She discovered that a large amount of money had left Mr Ws account on the day 
that he died. Once she had obtained authority to act on behalf of the estate, Mrs M 
discovered that just over £40,000 of transactions had been made from Mr Ws account in the 
days leading up to his death. Mrs M explained that it would not have been possible for Mr W 
to have made these transactions himself as he was in hospital receiving palliative care. She 
suspected that one of the payments had debited Mr Ws account after his death. She asked 
the bank to investigate the transactions and either evidence they were authorised or recover 
the funds if they were not.
NatWest concluded this was a civil matter between Mrs M and her brother. It said it was not 
possible to reach a decision on whether the money had been transferred without the late 
Mr Ws permission. The bank acknowledged that the level of service it had provided in 
relation to this matter had fallen short and offered £300 compensation to acknowledge this.
Our Investigator looked into matters but did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought the two larger payments in dispute were unusual activity for the account. She 
thought NatWest should have contacted Mr W to confirm that the payments were genuine 
but explained NatWest had told us that her brother held Power of Attorney for Mr W at the 
time, which would mean he was authorised to make these transactions regardless.
She noted the transaction that was debited from the account in the hours immediately after
Mr Ws death was set up online before he died.
Mrs M asked if we could provide a copy of the Power of Attorney as her late fathers 
solicitors had no record of any such document. NatWest searched its records but was 
unable to locate it. Mrs M said that if NatWest was unable to prove the existence of the 
document, it should be held liable as it has no evidence to support its argument. We 
suggested that Mrs M should contact the Office of the Public Guardian to establish whether 
there was ever a Power of Attorney registered. The Office of the Public Guardian concluded 
there was no match to the information Mrs M provided.
Mrs M explained she was struggling to process how NatWest had treated her. She pointed
out that from the start it had refused to talk to her, then it has implied that there was a Power
of Attorney in place when there was not. She wanted NatWest to refund the estate in full and
pay for her time as executor, along with compensation to acknowledge its dishonesty.
I considered the matter afresh. An extract from my provisional decision that explains the 
reasons why I was not minded to uphold this complaint is included below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gathering evidence in this complaint is particularly challenging. It concerns activity that took
place on the late Mr Ws bank account close to when he died. I have to determine, on
balance, what the wider circumstances surrounding those disputed payments were. I am
mindful that there is no way for me to ever know what Mr W may have thought and felt about
these transactions at the time they were made. There is no debate that the money was
transferred to Mrs Ms brother and it seems more likely than not that he also made the cash
machine withdrawals. But he is not a party to this complaint, and I cannot compel him to
provide evidence to assist me in my consideration of matters here. But I have taken into
account everything Mrs M has said and described, as well as considering evidence provided
by the bank, such as copies of Mr Ws bank statements and online banking records.
Of particular importance to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 which applied
at the time the disputed payments were made. The regulations explain that a payment
transaction can only be regarded as being authorised if the payer has given their consent to
the execution of the payment transaction.
This means that if Mr W made the disputed transactions himself or agreed they could be
made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask NatWest to refund them. Mrs M has explained
that Mr W was taken to hospital in an emergency ambulance and so couldnt have made
these transactions himself. But what shes said doesnt automatically mean the transactions
are unauthorised and they should be refunded to the estate.
The late Mr Ws card and PIN were used to make the cash machine withdrawals and his
long-standing online banking security information was used to set up the bank transfers. If
Mr W had given his son authority to use his bank account, or shared his payment tools such
as his card, PIN and online banking information, NatWest is entitled to treat the resulting
account activity as being authorised by Mr W, even if Mr W didnt physically make the 
transactions himself or give his explicit permission for them. If it looks to the bank like the
payment transaction has been authorised by the payer, the payments made can be
considered authorised. This is the case even if the third party goes on to spend more than
was agreed and in circumstances that the account holder had not discussed.
Mrs M has said her late father would not have agreed to her brother using his account. Its
extremely difficult for me to know now if the disputed transactions took place with or without
Mr Ws knowledge and consent. Its possible that Mr W willingly gave Mrs Ms brother the
information he needed to make the transactions. I am mindful that the transactions were
made using the correct PIN and passwords and it is unclear how any third party, including
Mrs Ms brother, could have obtained this information that was personal to Mr W unless hed
shared it. I am never going to know the full extent of the relationship or any agreement that
may have been in place between them. Mrs M has said Mr W gave her brother an allowance
because he did not work. Its possible that Mr W was providing more support to her brother
than this.
Our Investigator indicated that the two larger transfers were out of character for Mr Ws
account. I acknowledge and accept the potential for unusual or uncharacteristic spending to
have a detrimental impact on the estate. If the bank had intervened at the time to find out
more information about what they were for, it wouldnt have been able to reach Mr W to beable to speak with him. Even though I accept that Mr W wouldnt have been able to verify
these specific larger payments if they had been challenged, it doesnt flow from that that he
also did not consent to them being made. It remains the case that there is no way for me or
Mrs M to establish what Mr W would have thought about the payments at that time.
The estate has raised the fact that funds were technically withdrawn after Mr Ws death. But
given that NatWest wasnt notified of the death at the time these funds were debited, I cant
fairly hold it responsible for these transactions.
I have no doubt that Mrs M feels her brother has a case to answer. But Im only able to look
at whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to hold NatWest responsible for what
happened. On the face of it, I cant rule out the possibility that there was some sort of
agreement in place between the late Mr W and his son. Mrs Ms brother did not try to
conceal where the funds were going to, and they appear to be in connection to buying an
apartment. Mrs Ms brother did not utilise all of the available funds in Mr Ws account, which
does not fit with the behaviour I might have otherwise expected to see if someone was
looking to obtain a benefit they knew they were not entitled to. It is not possible for Mrs M or
this service to now establish what her late fathers intentions really were. Given this
uncertainty, I dont think I can fairly ask NatWest to refund the disputed spending.
Its clear this situation has been very difficult for Mrs M. Ive heard the emotion in her voice in
the most recent conversation that she had with our Investigator. I do acknowledge her
concerns about how she was dealt with by NatWest, but I dont think it was inappropriate for
the bank to not give her any more than the basic details about the situation. NatWest can
only release the information that Mrs M was looking for to appropriately authorised persons
and I dont think it was wrong for the bank to wait until Mrs M had obtained that status before
engaging in more depth. I do recognise that having to get this authority during the pandemic
was a protracted affair.
This has not been an easy time for Mrs M. The bank made a mistake by saying there was a
Power of Attorney in place when there was not. This has caused a lot of distress to Mrs M.
But I am unable to award compensation for inconvenience to executors of an estate. This is
because the complaint is brought on behalf of the estate itself, not on behalf of the executor
as an individual. So even though I acknowledge that Mrs M has been caused considerable
upset by NatWest, I am unable to make an award of compensation specifically for the impact
the banks actions have had on her. NatWest should, however, pay the estate the £300
compensation it has previously offered if it has not already done so.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mrs M. I know this isnt the outcome she was hoping for. It
has taken a long time to reach this point and Mrs M has indicated that she would consider
further litigation if we are unable to assist. This is a very difficult situation and I do not
underestimate the emotional burden she has carried. I appreciate that Mrs M feels strongly
that her brother has undertaken actions which are against her fathers wishes, resulting in a
loss to the estate. But my role is to decide whether I can fairly and reasonably hold NatWest
responsible for refunding the money thats in dispute to the estate. For the reasons Ive
explained, Im not currently persuaded that I can.
NatWest did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs M did not agree and highlighted a number of issues she wanted to be considered 
further. In summary, she explained that:
Her decision to pursue executor powers for her fathers estate was solely and directly 
as a result of NatWest contacting her and indicating their belief fraudulent activity had 
taken place. When she obtained legal authority to discuss it further, NatWest had not responded appropriately. 
Mrs M said there were clear indications of her father being subject to financial abuse. 
She referred to BSI:PS 17271 and suggested that NatWest had ignored this code of 
practice. She highlighted examples of suspicious activity on Mr Ws account. 
She pointed out that NatWest had accepted what her brother had said about Mr Ws 
death without asking for a copy of the death certificate or will. She said that NatWest 
never saw a will, a death certificate or a probate certificate and neither Mr W nor her 
brother had ever purchased an apartment. 
Mrs M said if the bank had tried to call Mr W to discuss the out of character 
transactions, it would not have been able to reach him, which would have resulted in 
the transactions being cancelled. 
She considered that NatWests reference to the existence of a Power of Attorney was 
key in the bank not answering many questions and avoiding being held accountable. 
She wanted to understand how the bank could make such a sweeping statement that 
the document existed without any evidence. She thought I had given NatWest the 
benefit of the doubt by indicating that it had made a mistake. She felt the bank should 
be held accountable. She concluded by saying NatWest had constantly failed to 
proactively protect her father. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mrs M has said and described in response to my 
provisional decision. Theres no doubt that this situation is stressful and upsetting and I do 
not dispute that the way NatWest has handled this matter has compounded matters.
But for me to conclude that NatWest should have to refund the transactions in dispute, 
I would first need to be satisfied that Mr W didnt authorise them. Mrs M says that he would 
not have done. Shes explained the reasons why she considers that her brothers actions are 
highly questionable and in response to my provisional decision, suggested that it was 
possible that Mr W was being taken advantage of financially. 
Mrs M asked me to confirm that I have specifically taken the BSI Code PAS 17271:2017 into 
account. I agree that the bank does have responsibilities to protect their customers  
especially older and vulnerable customers  from financial harm. The code of practice Mrs M 
referred to built upon and codified standards and practices banks were already using. But 
even if I were to agree that NatWest ought to have been concerned and should have 
intervened to ask Mr W questions about the transactions being initiated from his account, Id 
still need to satisfy myself that Mr W hadnt consented to those transactions.
The bank has provided evidence to show the payments were made using credentials linked 
to Mr W. From the banks perspective, transactions made with payment tools issued to Mr W 
such as his bank card, his PIN and his log in details would have appeared as if Mr W was 
making them, on the face of it. 
I accept Mrs Ms position that it would not have been possible for Mr W to have made these 
transactions as he was in hospital. But it is still possible for Mr W to have given someone 
else authority to carry out transactions on his behalf, so that he would be responsible for 
them, even if he didnt physically make the transactions himself or give his explicit permission for them. NatWest can hold Mr W responsible for any spending that happened 
because he gave someone his permission to act on his behalf. I accept that Mr W had not 
set up a Power of Attorney. But this is not the only way that someone can be given access to 
a bank account. If Mr W had an informal arrangement with his son and agreed that he could 
use his payment tools, the payments that his son went on to make can be considered 
authorised for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations, even if his son spent 
more than Mr W had agreed he could and in circumstances they had not discussed.
To be clear, I am not saying this is definitely what happened here. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I can never fully know Mr Ws intentions about the payments and any 
wider circumstances surrounding them. I do not have investigatory powers to compel 
evidence or information from third parties in the way a court of law or the police could in 
order to determine what really happened when these payments were made. Indeed, that is 
not my role as an ombudsman. As I am not able to speak to Mrs Ms brother and obtain his 
perspective on events, it is inherently difficult for me to draw fair conclusions on this matter 
given the limited evidence and information available to me. I have not seen any persuasive 
evidence to show that Mr W was being exploited or coerced into agreeing his son could use 
his account when he didnt really want this to happen. It remains the case that I cant be as 
sure as I would need to be what went on or that Mr W did not consent to these payments. 
Mrs M wants NatWest to be held accountable and I recognise her strength of feeling. I fully 
appreciate that it was contact from the bank that initially flagged the situation to Mrs Ms 
attention and there is no doubt that the way NatWest has handled things has impacted 
Mrs M and her family. But I am not a regulator and I cannot fine or punish NatWest for its 
conduct. In bringing a complaint to this service, Mrs M is doing so in her capacity as a 
representative of her late father because shes the executrix of his estate. Its the late Mr W 
who is the eligible complainant under our rules. I do not have the power to make awards for 
distress and upset caused to executors so I am unable to award compensation to Mrs M 
personally for the impact NatWests actions have had on her when representing the estate. 
All I can say is that NatWest should still pay the £300 compensation it offered in its final 
response letter if it hasnt already done so.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs M. I recognise that she has been through so much already in 
the years since her father sadly passed away. But for the reasons I have explained here 
(and in my provisional decision which is summarised above and forms part of this final 
decision), I am unable to fairly say that NatWest should refund the disputed payments or pay 
further compensation to the late Mr Ws estate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman