DRN-3636337
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not fairly compensate him after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 1997, Mr B took out a mortgage with Lloyds for £45,500. Mr B then took out further 
advances to the mortgage in 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2004. All of the borrowing was repaid in 
2006 and Mr Bs mortgage accounts were then closed. 
In August 2019, through his representative, Mr B complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold 
PPI to him. Lloyds agreed PPI had been sold alongside the borrowing taken out in 2002, 
2003 and 2004. But it did not uphold the complaint and so Mr B complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator agreed with Mr B that PPI had been mis-sold and that the complaint should 
be upheld. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and it made an offer to compensate Mr B for the mis-
sale. It reiterated its view that PPI had not been sold alongside the borrowing Mr B had taken 
out in 1997 and 2000. It accepted PPI had been sold alongside the further advances taken 
out in 2002, 2003 and 2004. It calculated the offer on that basis. 
Through his representative, Mr B did not accept the offer Lloyds made. Our adjudicator 
thought Lloyds offer was fair. Mr B disagreed. A number of arguments in dispute were made 
including (but not limited to): 
PPI had been sold to Mr B alongside all of the borrowing, including taken out in 1997 
and 2000; 
Lloyds would not have allowed Mr B to take a mortgage without PPI and he could not 
have cancelled the PPI policy until he had repaid at least 20% of his mortgage, so he 
must have had PPI in 1997 and 2000; 
The PPI sold to Mr B was paid for by way of a single premium, which had not been 
reflected in Lloyds calculation of compensation; 
Lloyds had not disclosed the correct figures in respect of commission and profit share 
for each loan; 
Lloyds should refund what Mr B paid for the PPI, and also make a further payment to 
Mr B to represent the commission it received which was more than 50% of his 
premium. 
The representative put forward an alternative method to calculate the compensation due to 
Mr B. 
As Mr B did not accept our adjudicators view, the matter was passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
Looking through the file, I was very sorry to see that Mr Bs representative was recently 
bereaved. I can see that she is also coping with health issues herself. I am grateful to her for 
the time and effort she has put into pursuing this complaint on behalf of Mr B in what must 
no doubt be very difficult circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont have to consider the mis-sale complaint 
again. Im looking at whether Lloyds fairly compensated Mr B for that mis-sale. 
I am very sorry to disappoint Mr B. But after considering all of the arguments put forward on 
his behalf at some length, I am satisfied Lloyds offer of compensation is fair. Ill explain why 
below. 
Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I must apply the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, I have to decide whats most likely to have happened based on 
the evidence thats before me. I want to assure the parties that I have considered all the 
information we have on file, even if I have not made reference to every document Ive seen 
in this decision. 
Which borrowing was covered by PPI? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold alongside the borrowing in 2002, 2003 and 20004. 
However, Mr B strongly believes the PPI was also sold in 1997 and 2000. Lloyds says it was 
not. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing the mortgage application form Mr B completed in respect of the 
1997 borrowing. I can see that some information was completed about home and buildings 
insurance. However, PPI is not offered as an option on that document. However, I can see 
that Mr B was asked to tick if hed received information about this type of policy, but that 
space has been left blank. Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage agreement. This document 
does not mention a PPI policy, which I would generally expect if a PPI policy had been sold 
at that point. 
Ive seen a copy of the 2000 mortgage application as well. I can see that on this form, there 
were two PPI options for Mr B to select  one to say he wanted a PPI policy and another to 
indicate he did not. I can see the no box has been ticked to show that Mr B did not want 
PPI. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr B changed his mind in respect of the 2000 
borrowing or that any premiums were paid for PPI in respect of either the 1997 or the 2000 
borrowing.  
Mr Bs representative referred me to a PPI application form bearing a number which ended 
715/8, which was the same as the 1997 mortgage account number. The representative said 
this was also the PPI reference number. If PPI had been sold, I would not expect the policy 
number to be the same as the mortgage account number. I can also see that the document 
the representative referred me to was actually an application form for PPI, which had not 
been completed. This suggests to me that Lloyds sent information to Mr B about the PPI 
policy, but as the application form was not completed, he did not actually apply for cover. 
The representative says there is a similar form in respect of the 2000 borrowing. I have not 
been provided with this document, but if it is the same form as 715/8, then my conclusion is 
that a PPI application form was not completed in respect of the 2000 mortgage either. 
Ive also looked at the electronic evidence Lloyds sent to us. That electronic evidence is 
clear that PPI premiums were not charged until 2002. The electronic evidence is consistent 
with the other evidence Ive set out above and brings me to the conclusion that PPI was 
most likely not sold until 2002. 
I know the representative feels strongly that Lloyds would not have allowed Mr B to take a 
mortgage out without insurance. But nothing I have seen from the mortgage documents 
suggests that PPI was a requirement of the initial mortgage in 1997 or the further advance in 
2000. It was not mentioned as a special condition of the mortgage, which I would usually expect to see if a PPI policy had been a requirement of the borrowing. Im afraid I cannot 
agree with the representative that the mortgage wouldnt have been agreed without the 
borrowing being covered by PPI. 
With all of this in mind, I am satisfied that a PPI policy was not sold alongside the 1997 or 
the 2000 borrowing.
Regular premium or single premium? 
Mr B argued that Lloyds sold single premium PPI policies to him. Lloyds said it sold regular 
premium cover. 
If Mr B was sold a single premium policy, he would have had to borrow extra on top of his 
loan to pay for the premium up front. That extra borrowing would have attracted interest. 
I have looked at the documentation in respect of the borrowing from 2002, 2003 and 2004. I 
cannot see that any extra borrowing that was added to the further advances to pay for the 
PPI policies. On the contrary, I can see that Mr B was charged monthly for the policy and the 
cost of the cover was set out as a monthly cost. 
I can also see that for each PPI policy sold, Mr B completed a separate direct debit mandate 
for the premiums to be debited from his current account each month. If the PPI had been a 
single premium policy, then he would not have to pay for it separately each month from his 
bank account because the cost would have been added up front to the cost of the loan and 
would have been included in his monthly repayments. I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest that Mr B was sold single premium cover. I am satisfied the cover was likely paid for 
by way of regular monthly premiums and that the cost of the cover was not paid for up front 
with additional borrowing. 
Was Lloyds calculation fair? 
When a regular premium PPI policy has been mis-sold, I would expect Lloyds to refund each 
premium Mr B paid in respect of the PPI. Id also expect Lloyds to add 8% simple interest to 
each of those payments from the date Mr B paid them until the day he gets the money back. 
Ive carefully considered Lloyds calculation. I can see that it calculated Mr B paid £632.15 
altogether in premiums. I can also see that it calculated 8% net interest at £690.31, which is 
in line with what I would expect to see. Im satisfied Lloyds net offer of £1,333.46 is fair. 
Commission 
Through his representative, Mr B made a number of commission arguments. Effectively, his 
argument was that any commission he paid that was above 50% should be paid to him on 
top of the refunded premiums. Lloyds had stated in its final response letter that it did not 
have to disclose commission because Mr Bs mortgage was not regulated. Mr Bs 
representative sent a number of documents to us to show that Lloyds was regulated by the 
(then) Financial Services Authority (FSA) at the relevant times. 
I think its important to stress that the test here is not whether the business itself was 
regulated by the (then) FSA, but whether the mortgage was regulated. Mr Bs mortgage 
would not have been a mortgage regulated by the FSA unless it was taken out or amended 
on or after 31 October 2004. Mr Bs initial mortgage was taken out in 1997 and the final 
further advance was granted in September 2004. I havent seen anything to suggest it 
became regulated at a later date and Im satisfied the rules about commission do not apply 
in this case. 
But even if they did apply, I wouldnt have expected Lloyds to refund the commission when it 
had already refunded Mr Bs PPI premiums. The purpose of requiring Lloyds to compensate 
Mr B for mis-sold PPI is to return him to the position he would have been in if PPI had never 
been sold. Any commission or profit share Mr B paid would have been paid as part of his 
PPI premiums. It wasnt the case that he paid for his premiums and was then charged extra on top of that for commission and profit share. By refunding all of the PPI premiums Mr B 
paid, Im satisfied that Lloyds has already refunded any commission he paid. 
With all of these things in mind, Im satisfied that Lloyds calculation is fair. I know that Mr B 
and his representative feel that he should be due tens of thousands of pounds, but for the 
reasons set out above, Lloyds calculation of compensation is in line with what I would 
expect. I understand that Lloyds has already paid compensation to Mr B. It follows then that I 
dont require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
Im satisfied the compensation Lloyds Bank PLC paid to Mr B to compensate him for mis-
sold PPI is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman