DRN-2359755
The complaint
D is a limited company. It complains about the way its payment instruction was handled by 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS).
The complaint is brought by Ds director, Mr C.
What happened
On 10 February, Mr C was looking to transfer funds from Ds account into his own personal 
account. He set up his personal account as a new payee on Ds online account and 
successfully transferred £1,000. He then attempted a second payment of £16,000, but this 
didnt go through as it was picked up by RBSs fraud monitoring service. The bank contacted 
Mr C by text message and email the same day, explaining that he needed to call and verify 
the transaction.
Mr C called RBS that day. He was asked as to the reason for the transfer. Mr C explained he 
was moving the money from his company to his own account, later adding that it was to 
make purchases while he was overseas. The bank declined to authorise the payment, telling 
Mr C hed have to visit a branch to sort things out. The call was terminated while Mr C was 
speaking.
Mr C called back, looking to raise a complaint. The adviser reaffirmed that RBS had to ask 
the purpose of the transfer as a security measure, aimed to protect customers from fraud or 
scams. Ultimately the adviser told Mr C that hed need to visit a branch to verify the 
payment.
Mr C found out later that day that his access to online banking was also suspended. He 
raised a complaint, which RBS responded to on 18 February. It reiterated that the 
restrictions it had applied were fraud prevention measures. By now, the payment instruction 
had lapsed and the funds had been credited back to Ds account. But the online banking was 
still restricted, and Mr C would need to visit a branch to confirm his identity.
RBS issued a further response on 25 February, noting that he was cut off during the first call 
on 10 February. It sent him £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused and £5.40 to 
cover the cost of the calls. By this time, Mr C had been into branch and his online banking 
access had been restored.
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. He said the transaction had 
eventually been made ten days later on 20 February, delayed while he was overseas. He 
thought this had all been avoidable and wanted the bank to compensate him for the 11 hours 
hed spent trying to sort things out. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ds complaint earlier this month, setting out why I thought 
it should be upheld. I said:
Under the terms and conditions of Ds account, RBS was entitled to delay or refuse the 
instruction it received to make the payment in question in certain circumstances. 
These include suspicions of fraud. And given the nature of the payment here, I think it 
was reasonable for it to ask Mr C for some more information, before it was happy to 
process the payment. 
But having listened to a recording of the call between Mr C and RBS in which he 
answered the banks questions, I dont think it was fair for the bank to reject the 
instruction in light of the information he gave. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
RBS had no concerns over Mr Cs identity or that he had instructed the payment, and 
confirmed this to him during the call. The reason it refused to process the payment 
was because it considered that Mr C hadnt given a proper explanation as to the 
purpose of the transfer. But it was established fairly quickly that, as sole director of D, 
Mr C was looking to move money from his business account to one of his personal 
accounts for his own personal use. With that in mind, I think Mr C was understandably 
a little confused as to what additional information RBS needed from him.
After Mr C first explained that he was looking to move the money to a personal 
account for his own use, the adviser he was speaking to referred the matter to another 
adviser who asked further questions as to the purpose of the transfer. His initial 
question was put in a slightly accusatory tone  youre not willing to disclose what the 
payment was for, is that correct?  which I dont think fairly reflected how Mr C had 
approached things with the previous adviser. This set the tone for the remainder of 
their conversation, with the adviser telling Mr C soon after that were not going to be 
able to process this payment if we dont have a sufficient reason for what the payment 
is for. I dont think the call was handled as well as it couldve been, and wasnt helpful 
in trying to resolve the issue at hand.
Mr C again reiterated that the money was going to himself. The adviser pushed again 
as to why it was moving from one account to the other. But I think it ought to have 
been apparent that one account belonged to D, and the other to Mr C. Mr C could only 
keep repeating that the money was being moved to me. He went on to liken it to a 
salary payment, taking from his own solely-owned business to use as he wished. He 
later added that as he was overseas, he wanted it to buy things. But the adviser 
rejected Mr Cs reasons, concluding that he hadnt provided a legitimate reason and 
advising that the payment would be held and the account blocked until Mr C visited the 
branch.
I think RBS had enough information from Mr C to understand the purpose of the 
payment, which ought reasonably to have alleviated any concerns it had. In short, Mr 
C had explained that he was looking to move money from D  of which he was the 
sole director  to his own personal account, to fund purchases whilst overseas. If the 
bank really did need further information from Mr C, I think it couldve better elicited this 
from him  he was understandably confused as to the level of detail required. But Im 
not persuaded that it really needed to know what Mr C wanted to use the money for, 
particularly as here I think it ought only to have been concerned with why D was 
looking to move the money and not why Mr C wanted to receive it.I appreciate that the processes at issue here are in place with the aim of fraud 
prevention and ultimately are to protect customers. So I should stress that I am not 
saying the banks processes themselves are wrong or unreasonable. But in the 
particular circumstances of this case, I think the way the bank handled things couldve 
been better  and this had an unfair impact on D.
The payment in question has now been made and Ds access to its accounts has been 
restored. But I think D was put to some inconvenience as a result of how the bank 
handled things. In addition to not being able to make the payment, Mr C had to spend 
several hours on the phone trying to sort things out. As that wasnt possible, on his 
return to the country he also had to visit a branch to verify his identity. RBS also 
blocked Ds access to its accounts online. So for the inconvenience that D was put to, 
Im intending to tell RBS to pay it compensation of £250.
This is on top of the £50 and refund of call costs that RBS has already paid. That 
related to the poor service that Mr C received, with the call referred to above ultimately 
being terminated prematurely. The bank recognises this shouldnt have happened and 
I think the payment its already made is a fair way to put that element of things right.
I understand that the matter has caused Mr C some upset personally. And hes told us 
that being without the funds meant that hes ended up out of pocket personally too  
as a holiday he was going to buy ended up being more expensive by the time he could 
book it. But here I can only consider the impact on D  the accountholder and 
complainant. So I cant make any award to compensate Mr C for any personal upset or 
financial losses as a result of these issues.
Mr C let us know that he accepted my provisional decision, while RBS confirmed it had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new evidence or information from either party for me to take 
into account, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So this final decision 
confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay D compensation 
of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman