DRN-2025433
The complaint
Mr F has complained that HSBC wont refund transactions, which he says he didnt make.
Mr F is represented by Mr F1, his father.
What happened
Mr F is disputing multiple transactions, totalling £1,960.54, which were made with his debit 
card and PIN. The transactions were made on 11 June 2019, between 3.18am and 
10.14am.
Mr F said he went out to a nightclub with a group of friends at about 12am on 11 June 2019. 
He left the club at 3.00am approximately. He said they all left together. They got a taxi back 
to their accommodation and then three of them went on to McDonalds. Mr F said he went 
back to his accommodation with one of his friends. He said he went straight to bed. 
When he woke up later that morning, he noticed his card was missing. He checked his 
account online and thats when he saw the disputed transactions and that his account was 
overdrawn. He called HSBC at 1pm to report the disputed transactions. He said he didnt 
make them. 
He told HSBC hed lost his card. He assumed it was stolen at about 3am but he wasnt sure. 
He said the sim card in his mobile phone was also missing from his phone. He told HSBC 
that he normally kept the card in his wallet. However, nothing else was missing from his 
wallet, not even his other cards, which were still in his wallet.  He said hed memorised his 
PIN. He admitted hed kept his PIN advice, but this was at his parents home in another part 
of the country. He said he hadnt shared his PIN or card with anyone else.  He said his 
phone and wallet were in a zipped pocket and they were never out of his possession. 
His last genuine transaction was a contactless purchase in the club at 0.22am. The last 
genuine chip and PIN transaction was on 7 June 2019. Mr F said, after leaving the club, his 
friends got chatting with a random group of people outside. He said he believed someone in 
that group stole his debit card and sim card. He said he hadnt reported the theft to the police 
because he didnt realise he had to.
Mr F asked HSBC to refund the transactions.
HSBC investigated his claim and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. It said 
there was no evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr F had authorised the transactions 
because:
his genuine card and PIN were used
there were no failed attempts at the PIN
he said hed memorised the PIN and hadnt shared it with anyone else
HSBC received approval to a payment after it had sent a text message to his mobile 
phone when the transaction was declined
it didnt think it was plausible that an unknown third party removed his wallet and 
phone from his zipped pocket, took out the debit card, removed the sim from his 
phone and then returned his wallet and phone without him noticing. Or that someone 
would take the sim card but not his phone, which was an iPhone.
Mr F didnt think HSBCs decision was fair, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he was 
persuaded that Mr F authorised the transactions by allowing someone to use his card for 
fraudulent purposes, possibly in return for a financial reward. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigators view. Mr F and his father are angry and upset at the 
suggestion that Mr F might have colluded with fraudsters. They maintain he didnt make the 
transactions and he didnt know the person who used his card.
Mr F has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigators view sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the relevant regulations 
and the evidence. Both Mr F, Mr F1 and HSBC have read the investigators view, so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure Mr F and Mr F1 that Ive read the file, including their comments.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator but for different reasons. Before I set out my reasons, I 
would like to explain that its not the role of this service to find out who did carry out the 
transactions. Similarly, banks dont carry out criminal investigations, which is why HSBC 
advised Mr F to report the matter to the police.
In short, HSBC is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017).  But 
the bank can hold Mr F liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
Under the regulations, a payment transaction is regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer (in this case, Mr F) only if the payer has given his consent to the execution of the 
payment transaction. The regulations go on to say that such consent must be given in the 
form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment 
service provider. The form and procedure are usually set out in the terms and conditions. 
Typically, this is the use of the debit card and PIN. So, even if Mr F allowed someone else to 
use his card for one or more transactions, he is still treated as having authorised those 
transactions.
The regulations also say that HSBC doesnt have to refund the disputed transactions if Mr F 
intentionally did something, which he shouldnt do under the terms and conditions, such as 
giving his card and PIN to a third party.Im satisfied from the banks technical reports that the disputed transactions were made with 
Mr Fs genuine card and his PIN. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable HSBC to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr F consented to the transactions 
being made or if not whether he did something he shouldnt do under the terms and 
conditions for the account.
Ive looked at the disputed transactions. They start with a balance enquiry. They were ATM 
cash withdrawals and purchases. There were approximately 41 successful transactions and 
five declined transactions. HSBC said hed used two merchants before, but I havent seen 
genuine transactions to these merchants on his statements.  There were three unusual 
payments to a taxi business for £80.01, £420 and £200 in the space of 45 minutes.  There 
are also payments to what appear to be convenience stores and multiple transactions in a 
supermarket  all in North West London. I dont know where Mr F was living at this time as 
the only address he has given us is his parents address. But most of the genuine 
transactions on his statements have been in central London, and a few in South London.
However, its clear to me that these transactions are unusual and inconsistent with Mr Fs 
spending habit. I dont believe he made them. 
But the difficulty is the PIN. Whoever made these transactions already knew his PIN. And 
there isnt an obvious point of compromise. Im afraid I dont find it plausible that an unknown 
third party was lucky enough to guess the correct PIN at the first attempt. Its also hard to 
see how a stranger managed to take his card from his wallet and the sim card from his 
phone without him noticing, when both were kept in his zipped pocket. It isnt easy to remove 
a sim card from an iPhone either, so that would have taken time.
I noted that hed said he was a bit tipsy at the time. Its possible he loaned his card to a 
friend, while drunk, and the friend then took advantage of the situation. I contacted Mr F1 to 
asked if there was anything else Mr F wanted to tell us. I wanted to encourage candour, in 
case Mr F felt he had to conceal relevant information. But both say they are puzzled as to 
how someone knew his PIN and Mr F maintains he doesnt know the person who used his 
card. This is regretful. Knowing how PINs work, it just isnt credible that a stranger guessed 
his PIN.
Ive also noted there were no more attempts to use the card after hed reported it missing. By 
then, there had been several declined transactions so a third party might have given up but, 
nevertheless, its more common for a fraudster to keep trying. The fact there were no more 
attempts suggest the person knew it had been cancelled.
I realise Mr F1 disputes that his son said his card and phone were removed from a zipped 
pocket. But Ive listened to his phone call with HSBC and this is what he told the agent. 
However, I appreciate he might have been searching for an explanation or answer to 
HSBCs questions. Mr F and Mr F1 also question why HSBCs anti-fraud system didnt stop 
the transactions. The fourth transaction, which was an attempted cash withdrawal, did trigger 
a text alert message to Mr Fs mobile phone. It asked him to confirm if the transaction was 
genuine. HSBC received a reply that it was. At this point, it had no reason to doubt that it 
was Mr F who had replied and that it was him using the debit card. Mr F1 can debate the 
merits of whether a thief would take a sim card but not the iPhone, but the fact remains the 
person who made these transactions knew the PIN. The sim card wasnt used to make 
transactions. 
Im afraid the lack of CCTV footage doesnt make a significant difference to the outcome. Its 
possible that CCTV footage might have identified that someone other than Mr F made the transactions. But Mr F didnt have to make them personally in order to be liable for them 
under the relevant regulations. He can still be held responsible for them if he authorised the 
use of his card. So even if CCTV footage had been available, looking at all of the evidence in 
this particular case, I dont think I could be as sure as I would need to be to say that Mr F 
wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account, Im afraid I can only conclude that Mr F shared his PIN with 
a third party, if not that night, at some time in the past. I think hes either allowed someone 
else to use his card and PIN, in which case he is treated as having consented to the 
transactions, or hes failed with intent to comply with the terms and conditions to keep his 
details safe. This doesnt mean hes committed a fraudulent act. Its possible he gave his 
card to someone else in good faith and they abused his trust. However, unfortunately for 
him, HSBC are entitled to hold him responsible under the relevant regulations and the terms 
and conditions for the account.
Im very sorry to send disappointing news. I know Mr F will be upset but I hope the reasons 
for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Razia Karim
Ombudsman