DRN-3595268
The complaint
Mr J complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) wouldnt agree to freeze interest and 
fees on his account.
What happened
Mr J had a credit card from Sainsburys. In February 2021, his limit was £1,500 and the 
balance was £1,487. His job was affected by the pandemic and he was place on furlough in 
January 2021, with his income reduced to 80%. In February 2021 he contacted Sainsburys 
to ask for an interest and payments freeze on his account. Sainsburys put a four-month 
arrangement on his account in March 2021  with payments of £5 per month and with 
interest and fees at zero. They refunded an overlimit fee of £12 and a late fee of £12 in April 
2021  these were due in respect of the March 2021 statement. The payments of £5 were 
made but Sainsburys defaulted the account in July 2021.
Mr J complained in February 2021. He said Sainsburys had refused to help him in response 
to his request. And he was now having to pay interest. He said he couldnt speak to 
Sainsburys as he didnt have a phone and because of lockdown, he couldnt get one at a 
shop, as they were closed. He said Sainsburys didnt deal with his complaint quickly 
enough.
Sainsburys said theyd agreed to a four-month payment plan  starting on 10 March 2021. 
This had zero interest and fees: and monthly payments of £5. Two fees of £12 had crossed 
over with the plan start date and they were refunded. They apologised that they hadnt dealt 
with Mr Js complaint quickly enough and paid compensation of £25.
Mr J brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Sainsburys acted fairly. He said that 
Sainsburys would normally want to speak to a customer to go through such a request. But 
Sainsburys had put in place a payment plan and that was what Mr J had asked for.
Mr J asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J contacted Sainsburys in February 2021, he said he was struggling and needed 
help. He wanted a freeze on payments and interest. There wouldve been two alternative 
solutions here. 
Firstly, an option was the FCAs pandemic support scheme. In April 2020, The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on 
customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Sainsburys, had to put in place 
payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help customers 
who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three 
months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported 
to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts.
Looking at Mr Js request  he wanted zero interest. So it was clear that this scheme 
wouldnt have been suitable  as interest remained payable.
The other option was for Sainsburys to put in place a payment plan  where customers are 
in financial difficulty. This appears to have been the case for Mr J. Businesses have an 
obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) says that businesses like Sainsburys should treat customers in difficulties 
with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend or waive 
interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to repay their 
debt. So  thats what Sainsburys did.
But its also fair for me to say that in order to decide how best to help Mr J, Sainsburys 
wouldve wanted to speak to him to understand his circumstances  for example, to establish 
his income and expenditure, other debts, the prospect of him returning to full time income 
etc. I can see that this proved difficult as Mr J didnt have a phone. And this caused a delay 
of a few weeks. But  even though Sainsburys couldnt speak to Mr J, they did put in place 
the payment plan he was looking for, and refunded fees due in March 2021. I looked at Mr 
Js statements and no fees or interest were paid between April 2021 and June 2021. I can 
also see they refunded some interest and fees in July 2021.
So overall  I think Sainsburys supported Mr J in the way he wanted them to. Sainsburys 
advised us that they defaulted Mr Js account in July 2021 and transferred his debt to a debt 
collection agency (DCA). I was sorry to learn of that. Thats not part of Mr Js complaint  but 
I would urge him to contact the DCA and come to a satisfactory agreement to repay his debt.
Mr J also complained that Sainsburys took too long to deal with his complaint. He 
complained to them on 26 February 2021 and Sainsburys final response was dated 26 April 
2021. That was three days over the eight-week guideline set down by the FCA for complaint 
handling. And Sainsburys apologised for that and paid compensation of £25. I make no 
further comment on that as under our rules, this service cant look at complaints about 
complaint handling. We are governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and 
cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This 
defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically 
about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. 
And so, while I know this will be disappointing for Mr J, I am not going to ask Sainsburys to 
do anymore here  as I think they dealt with his complaint effectively.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman