DRN-2869484
The complaint
R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc terminated its business account and rescinded the 
loan which was granted under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme.
Miss R, Rs director, brings the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
In November 2020, R applied for a loan with Clydesdale under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
Scheme. 
Miss R said Clydesdale made her open a business account for R, and initially tried to make 
R take out a business loan rather than a BBL.
R proceeded with the BBL application and the loan was approved. A few days later, R 
received £50,000 of loan funds into its account. Later in November 2020, Clydesdale 
blocked Rs account while they carried out a review.
Miss R contacted Clydesdale and she was told some international payments had triggered 
the fraud team to conduct checks on the account. Miss R, on behalf of R, explained to 
Clydesdale that shed spent some time in another country looking for a location to film to 
allow Rs business to carry on. Miss R provided photographic evidence of this and also 
supplied relevant invoices. 
In December 2020, Clydesdale decided to end their banking relationship with R and closed 
its account. In addition to closing Rs account, Clydesdale also withdrew the BBL facility. 
Clydesdale used the money in Rs account to offset it against the amount owing for the BBL. 
Miss R complained about this as she said around £6,000 of the money didnt come from the 
BBL funds but from payments from Rs clients. Miss R said R has suffered loss and damage 
due to Clydesdales actions.
Clydesdale responded to Rs complaint and explained they can withdraw the facility  they 
referred R to the terms and conditions. Miss R, on behalf of R, brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator who looked at things didnt think Clydesdale had done anything wrong. In 
summary, she said;
she hadnt seen any evidence that Clydesdale forced R to open a business account 
or tried to make them apply for a business loan  but nonetheless, she didnt think 
this made a difference overall as R went ahead with the BBL application and it was 
approved;
Clydesdale were entitled to block Rs account while they carried out a review;
she was satisfied Clydesdale had complied with their terms and conditions when 
closing Rs account immediately;
and she was satisfied, based on the terms of the BBL Scheme, that they could 
withdraw the facility and offset the balance from the remaining money in Rs 
account.
Miss R remained unhappy. She believes Clydesdale granted the BBL and then wrongfully 
clawed it back. And she thinks Clydesdale took the action they did because of fraud 
concerns  but Miss R says shes proved the money in the account was legitimate and it was 
being used for business purposes.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
great disappointment to R so Ive explained my reasons below.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Clydesdale has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I wont be able to share a lot of detail 
with R, but Id like to reassure it  and Miss R on its behalf  that I have considered 
everything, and I think Clydesdale actions have been fair in the circumstances.
The Clydesdale business account and the business loan
Miss R has commented that Clydesdale made R open a business account and then tried to 
persuade her to take out a business loan instead of the BBL. While Im satisfied R did open 
a Clydesdale account, Im also satisfied that its normal practice for banks to offer their own 
customers a loan facility. While the BBL loan is a different type of loan, I still think its 
reasonable that R should have been Clydesdales customer being taking it out. This would 
allow Clydesdale to manage the loan more effectively, if it had run the full term. The terms of 
the BBL also state that;
2.4.2 Repayments to the Bank will be debited from a current account of the 
Borrower with the Bank which the Bank determines
So, Im satisfied Clydesdale requesting R to hold a business current account was 
reasonable.
I havent seen any evidence of Clydesdale trying to persuade R to take out a business loan 
instead of the BBL. While Im not aware of what conversations took place between 
Clydesdale and R, Im satisfied that the loan which R applied and was approved for, was the 
BBL, and not the business loan. Therefore, I wont be upholding the complaint on this part. 
Account block and closure
Clydesdale are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, like our investigator, Im satisfied 
Clydesdale were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing, blocking and 
subsequently closing Rs account.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Miss R, on behalf of R, decided to end the agreement with Clydesdale and use another 
bank  she wouldnt have to explain why. 
Im aware Miss R believes Clydesdale took the action they did because of suspicions 
relating to fraud. I understand Clydesdale hasnt shared the reasons for their decision with R. Im sorry I cant share more details, but Ive reviewed Clydesdales reasons and Id like to 
reassure Miss R that Ive seen nothing to suggest Clydesdale have acted unreasonably. 
Withdrawal of the BBL and offsetting the debt
Under the BBL agreement, Clydesdale have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances  and Im satisfied that their actions in this were fair. Ive also seen evidence 
that Clydesdale wrote to R to inform it of their decision, so I dont think they did anything 
wrong.
I appreciate Clydesdale used the money from Rs account to repay the loan. R states some 
of this money didnt form part of the original loan funds and came from clients. Miss R thinks 
this money should have been returned to R instead of being offset against the loan. Ive 
considered the loan terms and they state:
8.4 Without prejudice to any other right or remedy the Bank may have, the Bank 
is authorised (but not obliged) to (i) apply any credit balance to which the 
Borrower is entitled on any account of the Borrower with the bank and/or (ii) 
debit any account of the Borrower with the Bank in satisfaction of any sum 
(including any interest, commission, costs and charges) due and payable by 
the Borrower to the Bank under the loan.
Im satisfied, based on these terms, that Clydesdale didnt do anything wrong in using the 
funds R held in its current account to settle the debt owed on its BBL account. 
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied Clydesdale were acting in line and complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when reviewing and subsequently closing Rs account. They were also 
acting within their rights, under the loan terms, to terminate the loan facility and recall the 
funds, and to offset the balance using the money held in Rs account. So, I wont be asking 
Clydesdale to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman