DRN-2910531
The complaint
Mr D complains that lending made to him by Lloyds Bank PLC was unaffordable. He didnt 
think Lloyds had done proper checks before it agreed to give him two loans.
 
What happened
Mr D told us that he applied for a loan in a branch of Lloyds in May 2018, and was turned
down. So he got a loan elsewhere. The money was paid into his current account at Lloyds,
and once it was credited to his account, Mr D said Lloyds offered him a loan.
Mr D said he applied for a loan of £7,500 with Lloyds, which was more than hed been able
to borrow elsewhere, and was approved. He said the money was paid into his account right
away, so he didnt think Lloyds couldve done proper checks. Nothing had changed since he
made the application in branch, except that hed been paid the money from the loan he got
elsewhere. Mr D also said that Lloyds knew what his income was.
Mr D then paid off the loan hed got elsewhere, and paid off an earlier loan with Lloyds. He
was making the monthly payments, but then he started to struggle, so he borrowed some
more money from Lloyds, taking a second loan for £4,000 in February 2019. Mr D said he
managed to repay both loans for a year, but then he could no longer keep up the payments.
Hes since set up a payment plan with Lloyds for both loans, and Lloyds has stopped
charging him interest.
Mr D thought all the interest should be refunded. He didnt think these loans were ever
affordable for him, and he didnt think Lloyds shouldve lent him this money.
Lloyds said Mr D declared an income of £1,150 per month, and no monthly outgoings.
Lloyds initially said, Any income received from benefits is allowed when we assess an
application and said that Mr Ds income was in line with the declaration hed made. But then
later it changed its mind about this, and said that The customer appears to have provided
the values of benefits that he was receiving even though we specify that some of those can
only be included if the customer is in work and others cannot be included at all.
Lloyds said it had looked at Mr Ds current account, and now thought he shouldve declared
his income as zero. And then it wouldnt have lent to him. However, Lloyds also said that its
assessment was that Mr D could still afford the full contractual payment for each loan, based
on its review of his essential expenditure in his current account.
Lloyds hasnt explained why it refused to loan to Mr D in July 2018, then agreed a loan in
August 2018. It hasnt told us how much income Mr D declared in July, and whether this
matches the application he made in August. And it appears to have initially sought to defend
this lending on the basis that the information hed provided was accurate, then sought to
defend it on the basis that it had relied on inaccurate information which Mr D provided.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr D had declared his
benefits as income, although Lloyds had told him not to do this. Lloyds had relied on the
information Mr D gave it, and our investigator thought that Lloyds had carried out sufficient
checks to decide whether these loans were affordable for Mr D. So he didnt think this
lending was irresponsible or unreasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He said Lloyds knew that his income was made up entirely of benefits, as
this had been the case for quite some time. Mr D said Lloyds had previously reduced his
credit card limit as well as refusing him a loan. So Mr D said he didnt expect to be accepted
for the first loan, but he was, and the money was in his account within five minutes. And by
the time he made the second loan he was borrowing just to pay for his previous borrowing.
Mr D sent us further documentation showing his loan applications. Mr D didnt think hed
given Lloyds any information on his income and expenditure, and he said these loan
documents didnt show this information. He also said this documentation wasnt complete.
Mr D wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to be 
finalised.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Lloyds has said that it thinks Mr D wrongly reported his income, as £1,150 per month, 
when this income was made up solely of benefits. I can see that Mr D actually 
receives rather less than this every month. Hes told us that around £250 of his 
benefits is directed elsewhere each month, to pay for transport costs.
Mr D says that Lloyds shouldve known what his income was, because it had access 
to all this information through his current account. It should also have been able to 
see his outgoings, including his other borrowing and ongoing credit commitments.
There are rules on lending, set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
Those rules require Lloyds to make a reasonable assessment of Mr Ds income and 
expenditure, based on the information available to it. I dont consider that, when Im 
thinking about the information available to Lloyds, I could simply exclude the 
information that Mr D has told Lloyds previously, and the information that is available 
to Lloyds from oversight of Mr Ds current account. So I think Lloyds shouldve known 
what Mr Ds real income was, and where it came from.
I think that if Lloyds had made this assessment on the basis of the income which was 
paid into Mr Ds Lloyds account every month and the regular monthly commitments 
he paid, its likely that Lloyds wouldve reached the view that both of these loans 
were unaffordable for him. And Lloyds has been clear that it would not have made 
either of these loans to Mr D if it had understood that this income was made up 
entirely of health-related benefits, with no retirement pension or earned income. I 
think that Lloyds shouldve known that.
So, having considered what both sides have said, I dont think that the lending Lloyds 
made to Mr D, in the form of a loan in September 2018 and a further loan in February 
2019, was responsible.
Lloyds has also sought to argue that Mr D can now actually afford to pay the full 
contractual monthly payment for both his loans, based on its view of his essential 
expenditure. But I can see that Mr D continues to have a number of other live credit 
commitments. And Lloyds has commented elsewhere a detailed assessment of Mr 
Ds income and expenditure shows that these repayments are unaffordable for him. 
However, the important point here is that even if I had agreed with Lloyds that Mr D could now manage to pay these loans, that would not mean that this lending was 
affordable for Mr D when Lloyds made these two loans to Mr D. 
Ive considered what both sides have said in this case, and explained that I dont 
think Lloyds lent to Mr D responsibly when it made either of these loans. I understand 
that Mr D has reached an agreement with Lloyds to pay £50 each per loan, and that 
hes no longer being charged interest on each loan. But, because I dont think this 
lending was responsible, I think Lloyds should refund onto each outstanding loan 
debt, any interest which Mr D was charged on either of these loans when they were 
initially made, before the interest was suspended.
I also note that Mr D has told us that this lending contributed to a cycle of debt that 
he found himself in, where he was borrowing simply to repay other lending. So I think 
Lloyds should pay Mr D £150 in compensation, to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience that this lending has caused him.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind.
Lloyds wrote to say it accepted my recommendations. 
Mr D wrote a number of times. He told us that hed now reached a revised agreement with 
Lloyds to pay £30 per loan each month, because he was still struggling with the reduced 
payment of £50. He wanted me to order Lloyds to pay him back all the interest he had paid, 
not to take it off the loans. He thought that would be fair, and would put him back in the 
position he was in before he took the loans. Or he said Lloyds could write these loans off. 
It would be quite unusual for our service to say that Lloyds cant ask Mr D to pay back the 
money it gave him, through these two loans, after Mr D has received and spent this money. I 
dont think that would be appropriate here.
But I do think its right to say that Lloyds shouldnt charge interest on those loans. Mr D only 
has to pay back the money hes had and spent. He doesnt have to pay any interest on that. 
Mr D said I should make sure that Lloyds doesnt use any interest refund to reduce his debt, 
he wanted this money to be paid straight to him. But if I order Lloyds to pay back to Mr D the 
interest hes already paid to it, then hell be paying off these loans for much longer. Thats 
why Ive asked Lloyds to refund, onto the loans it made to Mr D, any interest it has charged. I 
still think thats the right thing to do. This will mean that all the money Mr D has paid for 
either loan, goes towards paying back the money he originally borrowed. None of that will be 
interest payments to Lloyds.
I expect that will reduce Mr Ds debt to Lloyds. I dont expect it will pay it off entirely, but if it 
did, then Id expect Lloyds to pay anything left over once that debt is cleared, to Mr D. I think 
thats what Lloyds will be expecting, but Ill amend my award slightly to make this clearer.
The compensation payment of £150 will be made to Mr D directly.I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome in this case, and offers the best 
resolution for both parties moving forward. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must refund onto both the loans made to Mr D, 
any interest which has been charged on that lending. If there is anything left over, then the 
remainder of that refund must be paid to Mr D. Lloyds Bank PLC must also pay Mr D £150 in
compensation.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman