DRN-1209023
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Retail Limiteds decision not to provide insurance for a 
change of vehicle under his car insurance policy. Mr M is unhappy that he lost a years No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) because he cancelled his policy mid term in order to obtain cover 
elsewhere.  
What happened
In November 2018 Mr M bought a car insurance policy with the insurer, Ageas. In July 2019 
he called it for quotes for a change of vehicle.  For the first vehicle, Ageas could provide a 
quote. But for the second and third vehicles, Ageas told Mr M it couldnt provide insurance 
as the risk was outside of its underwriting criteria. Ageas told Mr M that if he decided to buy 
the (second or third) vehicle, his policy would need to be cancelled, and he wouldnt gain a 
full years NCB. Ageas said it wouldnt charge Mr M a cancellation fee. 
Mr M complained to Ageas. He asked Ageas to cancel his policy. 
Ageas didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it agreed to provide cover for the vehicle he 
bought the policy for. Ageas said it could rightly cancel the policy if a change in the risk 
resulted in it being unable to provide cover. This was explained in the policy document it sent 
to Mr M in November 2018.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. In September 2019 he 
provided a screenshot of a quote he obtained for his new car from Ageas. 
Our investigator was satisfied from the underwriting evidence provided by Ageas that it had 
acted in a fair way. Ageas explained that it's underwriting criteria had changed in September 
2019  so this was why Mr M was able to obtain a quote for his car then. But it said its 
decision in July 2019 was correct. 
Mr M didnt agree. He wants to know that weve seen underwriting proof of the change in 
criteria in September 2019  given this was just before he was able to obtain a quote online. 
Mr M believes we havent acted impartially. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy with Ageas said it can cancel his policy for a valid reason in the following 
circumstances:Changes to the information detailed on your proposal, statement of insurance or statement 
of fact, schedule or certificate of motor insurance which result in the risk of providing cover to 
you no longer being acceptable to your insurer or Rias.
An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and subject to change - so it 
doesnt share this information with its customers and the wider market. We dont interfere 
with such commercial decisions. But we can ask for evidence to satisfy ourselves that the 
insurer has treated its customer fairly when excluding cover. In this case, Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that Ageas fairly applied its underwriting criteria in July 2019  and in 
September 2019 when Mr M was able to obtain a quote. 
I think it was unfortunate for Mr M that Ageas didnt provide insurance in July 2019 for his 
new car. So I can understand Mr Ms disappointment that he wasnt able to continue with his 
policy as a result. But because his policy cancelled mid term  in line with industry practice  
Mr Ms NCB correctly remained at four years.  Ageas told Mr M that it would be happy to 
confirm to his new insurer that no claim had been made under his policy with it up until 
cancellation. 
So I think Ageas dealt with Mr Ms complaint reasonably and acted in line with the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman