DRN-4041723
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt accept a promissory note 
that he tried to pay into his current account.
What happened
Mr C attempted to pay a promissory note into his current account. The note was written by 
Mr C and it said, in effect, that he promised to pay himself £535,086 on an unspecified date. 
Halifax didnt accept Mr Cs note. It said the note wasnt a legitimate form of payment, so it 
wouldnt credit his account with the amount written. Mr C disagreed, and he complained to 
Halifax that it should accept the note. 
Halifax sent its final response letter to Mr C on 1 December 2022. In it, Halifax said it didnt 
agree that Mr C could act as a bank  which is what it appears hed asserted  and create a 
promissory note or bankers cheque for funds that he may not have. Mr C remained unhappy 
with Halifaxs stance on the matter, so he referred his complaint to our service for an 
independent review.
An investigator here looked at what had happened, but he didnt think Mr Cs complaint 
should be upheld. In short, he said:
Halifax isnt under any obligation to accept the promissory note because it isnt legal 
tender or money. 
If Mr C did wish to deposit such a sum into his account then hed need to do so by 
other, acceptable means.
Promissory notes arent listed as acceptable forms of deposit in the terms and 
conditions which govern Mr Cs account. So, overall, Halifax hadnt done anything 
wrong in not accepting it. 
Mr C disagreed. He maintained that Halifax should have accepted the promissory note, and 
he gave further reasons for why. He said:
The note was, in his view, a legal bankers check [sic]. 
The note was an agreement between the parties involved and, consequently, legal 
tender.
The investigators opinion had no reasoning based in law, such as the 
Bills of Exchange Act 1882, which should be taken into consideration. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, throughout this decision, Ive referred to the item that Mr C tried to deposit as a 
promissory note  even though Im aware he may see it differently. Ill also say that, while I 
know Mr C has raised several points, Ive only focussed on what I consider to be the crux of 
the complaint.
Mr C has provided his reasons for why he thinks Halifax should have accepted his 
promissory note. But I cant see anything to support his view, and theres nothing which 
makes me think that Halifax has dealt with this matter either unfairly or unreasonably.
 
As our investigator explained, the promissory note Mr C tried to pay into his account isnt 
legal tender. It isnt money at all, instead, its just a promise to pay a sum at a future date. 
The reality is that the note isnt a form of payment and Halifax is under no obligation to 
accept it as such. 
It follows, then, that Halifax doesnt have to accept it over any other binding agreement that it 
may already hold with Mr C  like the terms and conditions he would have agreed to when 
he opened his current account. 
Ive considered Mr Cs points on why he thinks his promissory note should be binding on 
Halifax  in light of the Bills of Exchange Act 1882 and other legislation  even when the 
bank has been clear that it hasnt accepted it. But I still dont think Halifax is under any 
obligation to accept the note, or do anything more than its already done here, for the same 
reasons Ive outlined above. 
I know Mr C feels strongly about this matter, but I dont think Halifax has acted 
unreasonably. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman