DRN-4282300
The complaint
Mr L complains that he didnt receive his welcome bonus when he opened a credit card 
account with American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL).
What happened
In January 2023 Mr L opened a credit card account with AESEL. The account included an 
offer of bonus Avios points if he spent £3000 on the card within the first 3 months.
Mr L spent £3000 but didnt receive the Avios points. He queried this with AESEL and was 
advised that he was ineligible for the Avios bonus because hed held an American Express 
account within the last 24 months.
Mr L complained to AESEL. He said he wasnt aware of the exclusion.
In its final response, AESEL said that the Avios offer was subject to terms and conditions 
including a term that a customer who had held an American Express card in the last 24 
months would be ineligible for the welcome bonus.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said that AESEL had 
allowed him to open the account without drawing his attention to the fact that he would be 
ineligible for the welcome bonus.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that AESEL had 
made the terms and conditions of the offer readily available to prospective applicants, and 
that Mr L ought to have been reasonably aware before he submitted his application that he 
wouldnt qualify for the welcome bonus.
Mr L didnt agree. He said hed applied for the card as a new customer and AESEL hadnt 
brought it to his attention that he wouldnt be eligible for the welcome bonus.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ls account history. I can see that Mr L previously held an American 
Express card from 8 December 2018 until 12 April 2021.
Mr L opened the account which is the subject of this complaint on 31 January 2023.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the account. These say that the welcome bonus is 
only available if you havent held an American Express account in the last 24 months. This 
information was clearly stated. So although Mr L has said that AESEL didnt bring it to his 
attention that he wouldnt be eligible for the welcome bonus, Im satisfied that the eligibility 
criteria was readily available.  Im also satisfied that Mr L ought to have been aware before 
he applied for the account that he wouldnt be eligible for the welcome bonus.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that AESEL hasnt made an error or treated Mr L 
unfairly here.
I appreciate that Mr L paid an annual fee for the card. I can see that when Mr L closed the 
account, the annual fee was refunded pro rata. Im satisfied that AESEL acted fairly and 
reasonably when if issued the pro rata refund, because Mr L had used the account for two 
months before he closed it.
For the reasons Ive explained , Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman