DRN-3745582
The complaint
Mr G has complained Starling Bank Limited wont refund him for transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Mr G noticed a series of transactions on his Starling account made on 17 and 18 November 
2021 which he didnt recognise. These had been conducted using Google Pay and he wasnt 
aware of this service. He complained to Starling. At the time he was also unable to access 
his Starling app.
Starling didnt believe these transactions were fraudulent. They wouldnt refund him. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr G brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator initially felt the transactions seemed to be fraudulent. There was a series of 
online transactions made with one supplier as well as three retail transactions conducted in 
places where Mr G couldnt have been.
Starling provided additional evidence to show theyd sent Mr G a text about Google Pay 
being set up. Our investigator felt that suggested Mr G must have made these transactions.
Mr G denied this and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe our investigator came to the correct conclusion in her initial view. 
Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Gs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Gs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Starling and Mr G have told us. We also have a timeline of events which is the 
disputed transactions on 17 and 18 November 2021. 
Ive taken the following into account in reaching my conclusion:
Mr G has told us hed made some transactions on 17 November to make purchases 
on an online marketplace. But afterwards hed definitely not set up Google Play. I see 
no reason to doubt Mr Gs protestations that he was unaware of Google Pay. This 
isnt a service hed necessarily need to make use of bearing in mind the use I can 
see he made of his Starling account.
Mr G retained his debit card and mobile phone throughout.
Starling has provided us with evidence which shows they sent text messages, 
including an authorisation code to set up Google Pay, to Mr Gs mobile phone before 
the disputed transactions. Mr G has always denied receiving these.
They have not been able to provide us with any evidence showing IP addresses for 
the series of Google Pay transactions to the same retailer.
The disputed transactions are unusual when I consider Mr Gs normal account 
usage. I also note three transactions included what looks like petrol and food 
purchases. These took place hundreds of miles from Mr Gs location and at times 
(21:15 onwards and including one at 01:10 on 18 November) that I think unlikely for 
Mr G to be using his card (on Google Pay or otherwise).
Im always slightly wary of claiming theres a specific type of fraudulent behaviour 
when this can vary widely. But it is certainly more common for an unknown fraudster 
to use as much money as quickly as possible particularly if someone still has access 
to their own mobile account  as happened here  and report it promptly. The type of 
transactions here  which include potential cryptocurrency purchases  could fit that 
profile.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Gs card details and 
use these fraudulently to set up Google Pay  particularly when I see Starling has evidence 
which shows messages were sent to Mr Gs phone. I just have to be satisfied that there are 
scenarios how this could have taken place. 
I have considered the possibility that Mr G allowed someone else to set up Google Pay on 
his account and use his card but cant see why that would be the case.
I have balanced the fact Starling sent Mr G a text with the lack of other evidence Id expect 
to receive from Starling about the disputed card transactions. Im also aware that Mr G was 
unable to access his Starling app which suggests some form of compromise may have taken 
place. In addition even if messages were sent to Mr Gs phone, Ive seen no evidence which 
shows he authorised the individual Google Pay transactions. These would have needed no 
further authorisation from Starling.
On balance I believe its most likely Mr G didnt authorise these transactions.
Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr G authorised these transactions, Starling will need to refund him in full. 
The disputed transactions add up to £2,402.97. They will need to add 8% simple interest a 
year when repaying Mr G.
Although Ive reached a different decision to the last view presented by our investigator, Im 
aware that this reflects the outcome of her initial view. So Im satisfied that both parties have 
been given plenty of time to provide additional and relevant evidence.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Starling Bank Limited to:
Refund £2,402.97 to Mr G; and
Add 8% simple interest to those transactions from 17 and 18 November 2021 to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman