DRN-3070787
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain because Society of Lloyds hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
holiday under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Society of Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs G were due to travel abroad on 28 March 2020. Unfortunately, the trip was 
cancelled following the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Offices (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advice against all but essential travel 
as a result of the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs G obtained a partial refund for the accommodation theyd booked abroad and 
made a claim under their travel insurance policy with Society of Lloyds for the outstanding 
balance. 
Society of Lloyds said Mr and Mrs Gs policy didnt cover cancellation due to the FCDO 
advising against travel. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to Society of Lloyds before 
bringing their complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
As Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators opinion, their complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
and guidance  as well as the Treating Customers Fairly principles referenced by Mr and 
Mr G  into account when making my decision about this complaint. 
I understand the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Gs trip was outside of their control and arose 
from an unexpected and unprecedented situation. But no insurance policy covers every 
eventuality and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in 
return for the payment of a policy premium. Therefore, Society of Lloyds obligations to Mr 
and Mrs G under its contract with them are limited by the terms and conditions which are set 
out in the policy. It wouldnt be practical for an insurer to list every situation which it doesnt 
provide cover for as a policy exclusion. So, instead, the limits of cover are defined by the 
listed, insured events which are set out as covered under each section of the policy. 
Section 3 of Mr and Mrs Gs policy, under the heading Cancelled or Curtailed on page 26 
says Society of Lloyds will pay certain costs if a trip is cancelled because of one of the 
following listed insured events:
1. the death, serious injury or serious illness occurring or manifesting itself during the 
Operative Time of Cover of the:
a. Insured Person;
b. Any person with whom the Insured Person is travelling or had arranged to stay; 
or
c. Relative or Close Business Colleague of the Insured Person or of the person with 
whom the Insured Person is travelling or had arranged to stay with;
2. the Insured Person or person with whom You had arranged to travel or stay with 
being summoned for jury service, subpoenaed as a witness at a court of law, 
involuntarily made redundant from permanent employment and entitled to payment 
under the current redundancy payment law or compulsorily quarantined during the 
Operative Time of Cover;
3. the Insured Persons permanent home within the United Kingdom or the Channel 
Islands or the permanent home within the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands of 
any person with whom the Insured Person is travelling being rendered uninhabitable 
by fire, storm or flood up to 14 days before the departure date;
4. the presence of the Insured Person or travelling companion being required by the 
police following burglary at his home or normal place of business in the United 
Kingdom or the Channel Islands. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G were unable to travel due to circumstances beyond their control, 
but I think the limits of cover outlined under Section 3 are clear. Their trip wasnt cancelled 
for any of the above reasons and, therefore, I dont think their claim is covered under the 
Cancelled or Curtailed section of their policy. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of 
their insurance policy, but I dont think they held any cover which would pay a benefit in the 
circumstances they found themselves in. 
Mr and Mrs G have pointed out that their policy doesnt cover policyholders if they travel 
against FCDO advice. They have said it is, therefore, disingenuous and unfair for their 
insurance not to cover them when they followed the advice not to travel. There are some 
limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt clear in signposting 
a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think it would be fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. 
However, I dont think thats the case here, and Ill explain why. 
Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by Society of 
Lloyds, as well as the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. Ive also had regard to 
the industry rules and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as to the relevant law 
(including the unfair terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of page 
1, says:
This document provides a summary of the cover, exclusions and restrictions. You 
will find all the terms and conditions, along with other important information in your 
policy documentation. 
Page 2 of the IPID says:
Are there any restrictions on cover?! Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination
Mr and Mrs Gs policy, at page 9, contains a specific section relating to Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office Travel Advice. This section says:
You must observe travel advice provided by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
(FCO).
No cover is provided under any section of this travel extension in respect of travel to 
a destination for which the FCO has advised against all or all but essential travel. 
So, although Mr and Mrs G may have been in the position of having no cover under this 
policy if theyd gone ahead and travelled on 28 March 2020 (in the event that it was possible 
to do so) and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think the exclusion relating to travelling 
against FCDO advice is clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of their 
policy. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs G to ensure they had the level of cover they required to meet their 
needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice, its likely 
they could have found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation 
they found themselves in. 
I understand Mr and Mrs G could not have foreseen the situation they found themselves in, 
and they have drawn parallels to the volcanic ash cloud scenario. However, different 
considerations applied in those cases (namely, whether a volcanic ash cloud constituted 
poor weather conditions within certain policies). 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I dont think their claim is covered under the terms 
and conditions of their policy and I dont think Society of Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by declining their claim. So, I wont be asking Society of Lloyds to do anything 
more. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman