DRN-3405246
The complaint
Mr A complains to Wirecard Card Solutions Limited that his Pockit account was blocked 
unfairly and then closed. He also says they failed to return the balance held on his account 
to him.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions 
Limited.
What happened
The background circumstances which led to Mr As complaint are known to both parties. But, 
in summary, Pockit blocked Mr As account in May 2019 to carry out a review. They 
eventually closed his account in June 2020 and didnt return the balance they held to him. 
They say they returned the balance to source.
Our investigator issued several views while the complaint has been with our service. Only 
the last view is relevant because this is the outcome which has led to this final decision. The 
investigator concluded:
Pockit could block Mr As account to carry out a review. They did so in line with their 
legal and regulatory requirements. But they took too long to complete the review. 
They had the information they needed on 1 October 2019 but failed to decide what to 
do with Mr As account until 12 June 2020.
Pockit were entitled to close Mr As account.
Pockit say they returned the funds they held for Mr A back to source. But they failed 
to provide enough evidence to show they did this despite being asked to do so.
Pockit need to refund Mr A an amount which represents the remaining account 
balance they said they returned to source. They also need to pay 8% simple interest 
per annum on that amount up until Mr A receives his refund.
As no resolution was reached, Mr As complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why:
Pockit have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. To comply with their obligations, its common for 
firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review. And considering the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint and the information I have available; Im satisfied 
Pockit made a reasonable decision to initially stop Mr A accessing his funds and that 
this was permitted under the terms and conditions of the account.
Pockit should conduct a review and reach a decision without undue delay. After all, 
the longer a customer doesnt have access to funds, the greater the financial harm 
they may suffer. The evidence shows they took until 12 June 2020 to close Mr As 
account when they had enough information to take this action from 1 October 2019. 
The delay was plainly unreasonable.
As no persuasive evidence has been provided to support a finding to the contrary, I 
find Pockit ought to have made the decision to close Mr As account on 1 October 
2019. And, at this point Mr A ought to have been given the funds in his account.
Pockit say they returned the funds they held back to source. But they failed to 
provide persuasive evidence to show the funds were sent back to where they 
originated and when. So, in the absence of persuasive evidence, Im left to conclude 
that they didnt return the funds. 
But more importantly I havent found sufficient evidence has been provided to 
demonstrate that Mr A wasnt entitled to the funds in his account. Mr A provided 
Pockit with information, and they have failed to demonstrate why this wasnt 
sufficient. So, even if the funds were returned to source, I cant conclude that it was 
reasonable for Pockit to take this action under their terms and conditions or that it 
was an appropriate response to meet their legal and regulatory obligations.
Pockit have a broad commercial discretion and can close their customers accounts. 
Mr A may want to know why his account was closed, but Pockit are under no 
obligation to disclose their reason(s). Neither will I be revealing their reason(s) to him. 
Pockit should however still close an account in line with their terms and conditions, 
and I find they did.
Putting things right
I direct Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to:
Pay Mr A an amount which is the same as the balance they say they returned to 
source and add 8% simple interest on this sum from 1 October 2019 until the time Mr 
A accepts this final decision.
They have 28 days from the time Mr A accepts this final decision to pay him the 
above redress.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Wirecard Card Solutions Limited need to pay him 
redress in accordance with my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman