DRN-3219188
Complaint
Mr J has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) unfairly brought about 
unaffordable guarantor loans for him. He says that reasonable checks would have shown 
that he was already struggling and providing further high cost lending worsened his financial 
situation. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr J being 
provided with guarantor loans in February 2016 and December 2017. Loan 1 was for 
£5,000.00. The loan had a 24-month term and an APR of 48.9%. This meant that the total 
amount of £7,373.76, which included interest, fees and charges of £2,373.76, was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £307.24. This loan was repaid in full in December 2017 
with some of the proceeds from loan 2.
Loan 2 was for £7,500.00. The loan had a 36-month term and an APR of 48.9%. This meant 
that the total amount of £13,065.48, which included interest, fees and charges of £5,565.48, 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £362.93. 
Mr Js complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that Match the Cash 
unfairly approved Mr Js loans. So she upheld the complaint. As Match the Cash disagreed 
with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Match 
the Cash to have carried out reasonable enquiries into Mr Js circumstances to check that 
hed be able to make the payments to this loan, before bringing it about.
As I understand it, Match the Cash enquiries suggested that Mr J was employed and earning 
just over £4,000.00 a month. This was verified with payslips. I understand that Match the 
Cash also carried out credit checks which, at the time he applied for loan 1, showed Mr J 
had balances on defaulted accounts which were over £10,000.00. The credit checks also 
showed Mr J had 13 delinquent accounts in the past 12 months and revolving credit 
balances at 132% of his credit limits. Match the Cash also appears to have been aware that 
Mr J had completed a trust deed the year before.
The credit check for loan 2, showed the balances on Mr Js defaulted accounts had 
decreased to just over £3,000.00 but the balances on his active accounts had increased to 
well over £20,000.00. Mr Js credit limits were only at 73% of his credit limits at this stage 
too. Finally, this credit search also showed that 12 separate searches, most likely as a result 
of applications for credit, were carried out in the 12 months leading to the application for this 
loan. 
Having considered these circumstances, I would have expected further enquiries and for 
further evidence on Mr Js financial circumstances to have been requested in order for it to 
have been fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to have approved these loans. 
In my view, Match the Cash appears to have placed a great deal of weight on the fact that 
Mr J had an above average income. But I think that it has failed to consider this in the 
context of what it found out about Mr J from the credit searches it out. And I think that it 
ought to have been concerned about the fact that Mr J had active defaults and had 
previously been in a Trust Deed despite having a high monthly income, rather than being 
reassured by this.
Match the Cash has said that our investigator failed to take account that Mr Js defaulted 
balances decreased in the period between loans 1 and 2 and that he wasnt using an 
overdraft. But I think that it was more a case that some of Mr Js defaulted accounts fell off 
his credit file, rather than the case that he was in a materially better financial position. And 
even if this isnt the case, its clear that Mr Js indebtedness elsewhere had increased. So 
any reduction in Mr Js default balances was, at the very least, down to further borrowing 
rather than an improvement in his financial position.
Equally while having a high overdrawn balance can be a sign of financial difficulty. I dont 
think Mr Js lack of an overdrawn balance here demonstrates that he was in a strong 
financial position. I say this while especially mindful that Mr Js previous difficulties repaying 
credit appear to have led to his bank from declining to provide him with an overdraft in the 
first place. 
Finally, I dont think that it was reasonable for Match the Cash to have simply accepted      
Mr Js word that the increase in his indebtedness at the time of loan 2, was down to him 
fronting a hire-purchase agreement for his son. This is especially as loan 1 was supposed to 
be for consolidation purposes and should have decreased his indebtedness from that point, 
rather than increase it.
So given what Match the Cash knew about Mr J at the time it was arranging these loans, I 
think that Match the Cash needed to obtain further information from Mr J to better 
understand his financial position and the reason for the mismatch between his monthly 
income and what his credit file was showing. I think that had this information been 
requested, Match the Cash would more likely than not have discovered the real reason for 
his previous credit difficulties, the fact that he was already struggling to keep up with his 
existing credit commitments and incurring returned direct debits as a result. 
In these circumstances, I think that Match the Cash ought to have realised that Mr J was 
simply unlikely to be able make the payments to these loans without borrowing further, or 
experiencing financial difficulty. And as this is the case, I find that Match the Cashs failure to 
further consider Mr Js circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr J when it brought about these guarantor loans for him.   
As Mr J ended up paying interest and charges on guarantor loans brought about by Match 
the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him, Im satisfied that Mr J lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. And I think that Match the Cash needs to put 
things right.   
Fair compensation  what Match the Cash needs to do to put things right for Mr J
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Match the Cash to put 
things right for Mr J in the following way:refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr J paid on this loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mr J to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of these 
loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Match the Cash to take off tax from this interest. Match 
the Cash must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Match the Cash Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman