DRN-3867181
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Santander UK Plc is unable to locate her Save As You Earn 
account which has prevented her from withdrawing her funds.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
Mrs P has said she opened her Save As You Earn account in 1986. She has 
explained that she paid £20 into the account every month and when the account 
matured, she would receive a bonus of £280. Mrs P has explained that once the 
account matured, she didnt withdraw the money. Instead she left it in the account, 
until she tried to withdraw the funds recently.
Santander has said after completing a full search it has been unable to locate this 
account. I have reviewed the evidence which Santander has provided, and I can see 
this is the case.
Mrs P is unhappy as she has been able to provide the passbook linked to the 
account and statements from 1991 and 1992, as such, she feels this shows the 
account existed and is evidence that these funds remain in the account. I understand 
Mrs Ps frustration, but that passbook simply shows any credits and debits made to 
an account. However, as banks and building societies do allow customers to make 
withdrawals or close an account without a passbook being updated or presented, its 
isnt sufficient to show the account still exists or that the funds remain in the account.
I really do appreciate the impact this may have on Mrs P. But in reaching my decision 
in this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the case 
impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. Having reviewed the evidence 
presented I am satisfied Santander has tried to trace the account in question and has 
been unable to do so. And given the passage of time, Santander is not obliged to 
hold on to these records. As such, I cant reasonably ask Santander to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman