DRN-2965046
The complaint
Ms H complains about the advice that she was given by Athena Wealth Planning Limited 
(Athena) to transfer her existing pension to a new self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) 
using a discretionary fund manager (DFM). She says she has incurred additional charges 
because of this advice.
What happened
Ms H was introduced to Athena by an investment company which Ill refer to as Q. She met 
Athena in June 2018. 
On the day of the meeting with Athena, a fact find was completed. This said Ms H was 63 
years old at the time, in good health and self-employed with a moderate - or balanced - 
attitude to risk. The fact find specifically noted Ms H was very cautious when making 
financial decisions and wanted to have her money invested in a way that she didnt have to 
personally make investment decisions. 
Ms H had a pension with another provider, which Ill refer to as S, then valued at just under 
£720,000. This was her only pension plan. The fact find recorded that she also had more 
than £660,000 held in cash accounts. Athenas advice covered both the pension with S and 
the money in the cash accounts.
Although self-employed, her income was modest, particularly when compared to her monthly 
expenditure and it was noted the pension and cash funds needed to provide an income for 
her. 
Under Next Steps notes the fact find says To move monies from [S] where investing with a 
DFM is not possible, to [the SIPP provider, A], in order to provide a very cost effective SIPP 
wrapper.
In late August 2018, Athena issued an advice and recommendations report to Ms H. This 
advised her to:
- transfer her pension from S into a SIPP with A and use Q as a DFM to invest and 
manage this; and
- invest £380,000 from the cash accounts in a bespoke portfolio also using Q as the 
DFM.
In the report, Athena said Ms Hs number one objective was to make sure she had sufficient 
income to maintain her lifestyle moving forward using her pension and money in cash 
accounts. There were further numerous other objectives including the following. 
- Sense checking the pension with S to see if its invested in the best way possible and 
aligned to Ms Hs longer-term objectives of providing an adjustable income. It also 
refers to Ms H not wanting to be invested with S any longer.
- Invest the money held in cash accounts to provide for capital growth. 
- Ensure the investments were manageable and understandable, clear, transparent 
and well invested.
- Ensure the pension, including cash, is invested in a balanced manner with an 
emphasis on capital preservation
- Keep affairs as simple as possible, with minimal input from Ms H, to rest safe in the 
knowledge that your monies are being looked after.
It explains that since Ms Hs pension monies are already invested in the markets, Q will seek 
to invest these imminently, so shes not out of the market for too long a period.
Q also issued an investment proposal dated 14 August 2018. Under additional information, 
the report said the funds are going to be drip fed into the market and, with Brexit in mind, 
they would be looking at a 6 - 9 month minimum time frame for investment.
Ms H signed the paperwork to take out the SIPP and agreed to pay an initial advice charge 
of 1% (which worked out to around £7,000) and an ongoing annual adviser fee of 0.75% plus 
VAT to Athena along with the DFM charges of 1.2% per year and other SIPP fund charges. 
Athena agreed to take the transfer penalty out of its initial advice charge. Overall, Athenas 
report explained that the ongoing cost of the recommendation would be 2.7% including VAT 
per year. 
The report noted that after all charges, including adviser charges, the annual cost to her 
would increase by 1.03% when compared with Ss charges. However, it went on to say that, 
whilst Ms H understands there is an increase in the investment and management cost of this 
pension, she was happy that this is the manner in which [she] wish to proceed in order to 
achieve [her] wider planning objectives. This was in order to access this significant uplift in 
terms of investment proposition and service to facilitate Ms Hs requirements going forward 
in a far more comprehensive manner than is currently the case in the highly restricted 
environment [her] monies were in.
Within a short time of the transfer completing, Ms H was unhappy with both the service and 
information being given to her by Athena. She felt Athena pressured her to agree to their 
recommendations and was concerned by the substantial drop in her pension at transfer from 
the value S had given several months earlier. Ms H approached a different wealth 
management firm, L, who reviewed the advice and recommendations from Athena. As a 
result of this review, Ms H asked for investments to cease in early November and moved her 
investment management to L whilst remaining with the same SIPP provider, A, by the end of 
December 2018. Ls total charges are 1.25% plus fund charges, so around 1.95%. 
Ms H says she was also unhappy when she realised her cash would be subject to a 1% 
charge for transferring it to Q while the cash balance within the fund  not yet invested  
wasnt going to be earning any interest. She was also concerned that she hadnt been told 
the projected growth, after inflation and charges, would be negative and raised concerns 
about the independence of the relationship between Athena and Q and associated fees they 
were both charging or intending to charge.
Ms H complained to Athena. They said the charges and relationship between Athena and Q 
was fully disclosed and Ms H didnt ask for more time to read documents. They felt the 
processing of the transfer was carried out as expediently as possible and explained it isnt 
possible to strategically time the transfer according to values as there is a delay from the 
point of the request to implementation. In relation to the increased fees, Athena said they felt 
confident theyre commensurate with the high quality of advice provided and felt Ms Hs key 
reason for being unhappy was the market fall and impact of this on her fund before transfer 
and so, after spending so much time and effort on Ms Hs planning, it was disappointing to 
receive the complaint. Athena didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint, so she came to our service.Our investigator looked into matters. He didnt feel Athena had done anything wrong in 
relation to the transfer process and noted the fees were set out in the paperwork given to Ms 
H. He also felt that, as Ms H moved her pension soon after, the impact was limited. So he 
didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint as he didnt feel Athena had made an error for which they 
should compensate. 
Ms H disagreed the matter was been passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision on 7 July 2021, an extract from which appears below and forms part of this final 
decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have provisionally decided to partially uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain 
why.
To decide this complaint Ive considered whether the advice Ms H was given to transfer into
the SIPP with A and use Q as a DFM was suitable. Ive also looked at whether Ms H was 
given information by Athena which was sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading so that she 
to make an informed choice as to whether to accept that advice. 
suitable advice
Athena was required to provide suitable advice taking into account Ms Hs objectives and 
circumstances. Ms Hs stated main objective in the advice and recommendations report was 
to ensure she had sufficient income to maintain her lifestyle. Frequently referred to through 
the reports is a requirement to preserve capital.
Preserving capital for her future income reasonably means maximising the yield. But the 
advice given here wouldnt achieve this. In fact, the level of negative growth was quite 
significant. This is because the fees would reduce the anticipated annual yield by 2.7% and 
lead to projected negative growth when adjusted for inflation. Further, assuming the SIPP 
yield was 2.44% per annum (the projected yield set out in the fund illustration for the mid-
rate growth), Ms Hs fund would reduce every year. If the impact of the initial advice and 
transfer costs were factored in, this would become even more significant. 
I note Athenas adviser recorded the reason why she recommended the transfer and using 
the services of Q as a DFM was because of the wide choice of investment funds available 
when compared to S. Whilst I can accept that Ms H was attracted to having the services of a 
DFM and is now happy to have an investment manager with L, I dont think a move to a fund 
with a wider choice of investment funds is a sufficient benefit to justify the higher charges 
and resulting negative projected growth that accompanied Athenas advice to move to this 
particular DFM.
Taking everything into account, I dont agree the advice given by Athena was suitable and 
this opinion was shared with Athena to give it the opportunity to respond to this.
Athenas responseAthena didnt agree with my opinion and repeated several of their concerns with this 
outcome. 
I can see why Athena would feel Ms Hs position has shifted because of the performance of 
her fund before the transfer and significant drop in value. I do also understand why Athena 
may feel a decision to uphold the complaint isnt fair. So, whilst I also accept that Ms H 
clearly interested in transferring away from S before she sought advice and that she wanted 
a personalised service with an investment manager, she wasnt experienced in pensions and 
came to Athena for advice which it had to make sure was suitable for her. I also 
acknowledge that Ms H was prepared to pay for additional services. And, of course, charges 
will always affect returns so Im also not saying that only because services are more 
expensive than with another firm the advice is unsuitable. The issue is, because of the 
comparatively high fees and her balanced risk attitude, it was likely her pension wouldnt 
keep up with inflation. So, in real terms it would decrease in value and that wasnt in line with 
her objective of preserving her capital as much as possible. That said, I think the redress 
proposed fairly reflects the proportionate steps Athena needs to take to fairly and reasonably 
put things right and doesnt, for example, require it to return the initial advice fee (Ive 
explained this in more detail later in this decision).
I note Athenas comments about Ms Hs key objectives. But the fact that the pension would 
be exhausted in her lifetime doesnt mean that her need to preserve capital as much as 
possible was any less important. In this context, the more the capital - less any withdrawals - 
which could be preserved or protected against inflation and the charges levied on it, the 
longer itd take for the pension to be exhausted thus ensuring she had enough income for as 
long as possible to support her income and lifestyle needs. This was a consistent and key 
objective.
As illustration confirmed all the charges could reduce the yearly growth rate, after taking into 
account inflation, from 2.4% to -0.4%. This is a reduction in growth of 2.8% a year. The fund 
would need to outperform the mid-rate level of growth by a significant amount to claim the 
fund would have a positive real return. And I think there were limited prospects of the fund 
achieving significantly better returns without taking on a much higher and inappropriate level 
of risk. 
Athena say Qs anticipated returns of 5.4% per year net of underlying fund charges are more 
realistic than the standard mid-rate growth of 2.44% provided by the SIPP provider which 
included adjustment of 2.5% for inflation. Assuming those higher returns, there would be 
capital growth of 1% after inflation. 
However, the regulator prescribes standard projections rates for good reason. It makes it 
easy for customer to compare products and to see how charges might affect returns. And it 
gives a reasonable indication of achievable returns. So, I consider it appropriate to take 
these projections into account when considering suitability.
I also cant see why Qs assumptions are more realistic. Its unclear what these assumptions 
are based on and I note that in their report they show cumulated returns over 5 years in their 
balanced portfolio of 26.40% which translates into an average annual return of 4.8%. In any 
event, past returns of certain funds couldnt be relied on for future performance. 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied Athena has shown a strong justification for 
the recommendation when the likely growth taking into account inflation  based on As mid-
rate illustration - was negative.Whilst I acknowledge Ms H could have terminated Athenas services at any point, this 
doesnt make the advice - to transfer into a SIPP with A and a DFM with Q and have ongoing 
advice from Athena - suitable.
clear, fair and not misleading information
I think it can also be reasonably expected that Athena would give a clear, fair and not 
misleading comparison of the options available in terms of the overall impact of the costs on 
growth. But I havent been persuaded Athena did this. I read the documents Athena 
specifically refer to but I still dont consider that Ms H was made aware of how the costs 
associated with the advice to move to this particular DFM would impact on the growth of her 
fund. Had this been made sufficiently clear, I dont think it likely she wouldve agreed to the 
transfer into a SIPP with A and a DFM with Q.
Even so, pointing out these differences nor the provision of information - no matter how well 
set out - doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable. 
It doesnt seem likely to me that if someone is in a plan, and a key objective is to preserve 
capital, they would choose to transfer to a different plan if there are ongoing costs 
associated with the transfer that actually mean the new plan has negative projected growth.
I dont consider that Ms H was made aware to the extent of how the costs associated with 
the advice to move to this particular DFM would impact on the growth of her fund. Had this 
been made sufficiently clear, I dont think it likely she wouldve agreed to the transfer into a 
SIPP with A and a DFM with Q.
Ms H raises a number of other issues and Ive covered these below. 
initial advice fee
Ms H feels the initial advice fee charged by Athena is very expensive and doesnt reflect the 
service provided. She also says other firms wouldve charged considerably less. 
Whilst I acknowledge there are some firms which would charge less, the initial advice fee  
which was calculated as a percentage of the fund - was clearly communicated to Ms H 
before it was incurred, and she agreed to it. So, I dont uphold her complaint about the 
amount of the initial advice fee. 
When we consider how we should put things right after a business has done something 
wrong in a situation like this, were trying to put the consumer in the position they wouldve 
been in had the advice been suitable. Sometimes this means the entire fee for advice is 
refunded to the consumer. But I dont think the advice to transfer to a SIPP and have a DFM 
with a balanced portfolio was generally unsuitable advice for Ms H. The issue with Athenas 
advice is that the ongoing fees which accompanied the move to this particular DFM along 
with Athenas ongoing costs meant it didnt meet Ms Hs needs. 
I also think its important to explain that Ms H has benefitted from this advice. I say this 
because:
-L explained they didnt see any reason to replicate the advice shed already 
received and didnt charge Ms H any fees for their initial advice.
-L kept Ms Hs fund in the same SIPP with A.
-The new investments L has made arent significantly different to what theyd been 
before L took over from Q as explained by our investigator in some detail previously. 
-Ms H now has an investment manager service with L. In these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to require Athena to 
refund the advice fee to Ms H. Its also for largely the same reasons that I think its probably 
fair to say that Ms H didnt loose out on the investments made by Q in the short time they 
were acting as her DFM due to the similarities in the portfolios.
loss in transfer value
As our investigator explained, the pension lost its value before the transfer was made and 
while it was under Ss control and management. This isnt something Athena is responsible 
for. In terms of the timing of the transfer and when this process began, our investigator has 
explained the position clearly. Unfortunately, when you transfer a pension plan, theres no 
way of reliably knowing what the price of the funds will be on the day the provider receives 
and implements the transfer instruction. 
So, whist I appreciate the drop in value this wouldve been a shock for Ms H, I dont uphold 
her complaint about the loss in transfer value.
phased investment approach, fee to receive cash transfers and interest
I note Ms H talks about the advice to gradually move her pension into investments and says 
she wasnt earning any interest during this time on the money which remained uninvested.
Staggering investments in itself isnt unusual and is something L also suggested so I dont 
think theres anything concerning in this approach. I note that Qs report says that cash 
deposits attract interest but Im aware current interest rates for most funds with cash 
deposits are 0% due to market conditions. I dont know what the rates were at the time but, if 
this is something she hasnt received, shed need to raise this with Q directly. Its not 
something Athena is responsible for under this decision. 
Im not ignoring Ms Hs comments about the fee that wouldve been charged to simply 
accept transfers of the money she held in cash accounts. I agree this wouldve been a 
significant cost. However, this didnt happen - Ms H changed advisors very quickly. So, she 
didnt incur any costs or suffer any losses here. I therefore  dont uphold Ms H complaint 
about this.
I think its important to explain at this point that our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers and put them in the place they wouldve been in if the business hadnt got things 
wrong. We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned in the 
particular complaint that has been brought to us. We arent here to punish or regulate 
organisations and we only consider redress for what has actually happened, not what 
couldve happened. The regulator here is the Financial Conduct Authority and it would be for 
Ms H to report to them any of Athenas practices she considers require highlighting for 
possible regulatory intervention. 
Taking the above into account, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint in relation to the staggered 
investment approach, interest on the money uninvested or fees that wouldve been charged 
for receiving cash transfers.
£16,000 held on account by Athena
Ms H says Athena has failed to account for the £16,000 it held on account of ongoing advice 
fees. I agree this hasnt been clearly set out by Athena. In their final response letter, Athena 
say this was retained leaving enough in the SIPP wrapper to cover initial advice fee and 6 
months ongoing advice fees. But this doesnt explain what has been charged and what 
happened to the balance. It was also unclear from everything Ive seen if the transfer fee 
charged by S was deducted from Athenas initial advice fee  as agreed with Ms H - or Ms 
Hs fund. Having raised this with Athena, our service has now been sent information which shows the 
amount transferred to A from S was just over £671,000 and the movement of £660,000 
thereafter to Q left just over £10,800 in As account. 
Ive seen an extract of the ledger for A and I cant see that money was sent from A to Athena 
aside from the initial advice fee and one ongoing advisor charge for October 2018. Athena 
has confirmed one further payment was made from A to Athena for the ongoing advisor 
charge for November 2018. Even so, the initial advice fee as well as both the ongoing 
charges have been dealt with in this decision already. 
I can see there wouldve likely been an amount of just over £3,000 left in the account with A. 
As the SIPP is still with the same provider, A, I trust Ms H will be able to liaise with L for the 
information about what happened to the remaining money thereafter if this remains unclear.
Finally, I have also seen than Athena paid money to A to cover the transfer penalty charged 
by S and also an explanation about those fees from Athena. As a result of receiving this 
information, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about the £16,000. However, I think its 
important to say that had this been shared with Ms H sooner it wouldve helped to clarify a 
number of matters for Ms H and, undoubtedly, reduced her concerns about this matter. 
I will ask our investigator to send to Ms H the extract of As ledger and Athenas explanation 
for her review. I hope it will clarify the outstanding queries she had about this money.
summary
I maintain my view that the advice given by Athena wasnt suitable or that sufficiently clear 
information was given. I think Ms H has lost out as a result of the advice she was given by 
Athena and so Athena needs to put things right. 
As set out above, its often the case that where the advice is unsuitable, wed ask the 
business to refund to the consumer the initial advice fee. But its my view this wouldnt be 
appropriate here as Ms H has benefitted from the advice, however, the issue with Athenas 
advice is that the ongoing fees which accompanied the move to this particular DFM along 
with Athenas ongoing costs meant it didnt meet Ms Hs needs. Therefore, Ive awarded 
redress to return the ongoing fees charged to Ms H.
I also think Athena should pay Ms H £500 compensation for giving her unsuitable advice and 
the additional distress, inconvenience and trouble this caused her. Having spent time 
meeting with advisors, discussing her situation and transferring a substantial pension, I can 
see that it wouldve been very distressing to then discover things hadnt gone as they should 
have. Ms H then had to go through the same process again to change advisors, discuss her 
situation and agree a way forward to make the most of the situation she found herself in. 
This would have been inconvenient and concerning at any point but, shes explained during 
this time, she also suffered from ill health. I also consider a number of queries raised by Ms 
H wouldve been avoided if a clear account had been given to her by Athena, this having 
only recently been given to our service.
Fair compensation
As set out above I dont think its fair to ask Athena to refund the initial advice fee Ms H paid. 
However, I dont think she should have to pay the ongoing charges of the unsuitable 
arrangement. Based on the information I have at the moment, Im intending to ask Athena to 
compensate Ms H fairly as set out below.
Athena must:1. Refund the ongoing fees charged to Ms H in October and November 2018 in the 
amounts of £498.30 and £496.72 (= £995.02).
2. To make up for the investment returns she has missed out on these additional 
amounts, the following benchmark should be applied from the date they were paid to 
the date of my final decision: FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). 
This fairly reflects her balanced attitude to risk.
3. Athena should pay the sums under 1. and 2. into Ms Hs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Athena is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Hs pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age, presumed to be 40% 
As Ms H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
4. Pay Ms H £500 compensation for giving her unsuitable advice and the additional 
distress, inconvenience and trouble this put her to. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision. 
Athena has acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but confirms it doesnt have 
anything further to add in addition to what has already been submitted. 
Ms H has replied. In summary, she has no wish to dispute the preliminary judgement  shes 
grateful for it and understands the compensation is limited. She also makes a number of 
further comments to give context and further clarity to a number of matters which I have 
taken into account, in full, in my further consideration of this matter. Finally, she hopes some 
public good can come out of this and wants the opportunity to file evidence with the FCA on 
several points.
The matter has now been passed back to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account what Ms H has explained in her further communication with our 
service.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
I understand Ms Hs concerns regarding the ledger but, the same having been provided, its 
my view this does now clarify the outstanding queries she had about the £16,000 initially 
raised by her. However, as mentioned in my provisional decision, this information should 
have been provided much sooner than it was.In terms of the regulator, Ms H will need to liaise with the FCA directly and should find their 
details on the internet for this purpose. However, she can liaise with the investigator if she 
cannot find this information.
Putting things right
Athena must:
1. Refund the ongoing fees charged to Ms H in October and November 2018 in the 
amounts of £498.30 and £496.72 (= £995.02).
2. To make up for the investment returns she has missed out on these additional 
amounts, the following benchmark should be applied from the date they were paid to 
the date of my final decision: FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index). 
This fairly reflects her balanced attitude to risk.
3. Athena should pay the sums under 1. and 2. into Ms Hs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Athena is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Hs pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Hs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age, presumed to be 40% 
As Ms H would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
4. Pay Ms H £500 compensation for giving her unsuitable advice and the additional 
distress, inconvenience and trouble this put her to. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint as set out above. To put things right, Athena 
Wealth Planning Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman