DRN-2553647
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as K has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
turned down its business protection insurance claim. Mr O, a director of K, has brought the 
complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
K holds a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Mr O made a claim on that policy 
to cover Ks losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
Mr O didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for 
Compulsory Closure, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr O complained to Covea but it explained that, although his policy would provide cover in 
the event of certain infectious diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr O wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ks complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Ks situation, he didnt think there was cover available under the 
policy. K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ks business, but I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.  
Mr O is looking to claim on Ks business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether Covea acted fairly in declining Ks claim, the starting point is to consider the specific 
policy it took out. 
Having reviewed Ks policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of the business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the parts of the policy which appear most 
relevant provide cover.
Ks policy included cover for compulsory closure. The policy states that it would provide 
cover for disruption to business activities in consequence of compulsory closure by a public 
body authorised to prevent or restrict access to the premises arising fromdiscovery of a 
notifiable human infectious or contagious disease at the premises.
The policy provides a definition for notifiable human infectious or contagious disease, 
which sets out a list of specified illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, 
COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something Covea would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover for 
the present pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out 
and updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ks policy sets out a specific list of 
which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is nothing 
which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which 
might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of the 
specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Ks policy also provides cover for loss resulting from Damage or Prevention of Access. 
However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the business 
itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as Covid-19, or even a Government-
imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent seen 
anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think this section 
covers Ks claim.
Mr O also referred to the Supreme Court Judgment on the FCAs test case. However the test 
case didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether the claim should be paid still 
depends on the specific terms contained in the policy. And having considered these, I dont 
think there are any terms that would provide cover in these circumstances.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had 
on T, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of the 
policy, I dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining Ts claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman