DRN-3967401
The complaint
Mr N has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund £957.51 worth of transactions 
made on his debit card.
What happened
After being away from home and not using his mobile phone for a time, Mr N noticed 
numerous card transactions on his account that hed not made. He alerted Barclays as he 
believed hed been a victim of fraud.
Barclays didnt think there was enough evidence to show Mr N hadnt made these 
transactions himself. 
Disappointed, Mr N brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He believed all the 
transactions between 26 September and 24 October 2022 had been carried out by someone 
else. He also confirmed hed continued to have possession of his debit card for the whole 
period.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened and the evidence provided by both parties. 
He felt it was most likely that Mr N had authorised these transactions himself.
Mr N disagreed. Hes asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ns complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ns case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr N have told us. 
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr N authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
Mr N only opened this account in August 2022.
The disputed transactions were made using Mr Ns genuine debit card. Mr Ns PIN 
was used to authenticate some of the disputed transactions. Mr N has told us he 
continued to have his debit card with him throughout. He believes theres a fraud 
which means his card details could be used. I dont agree. Im satisfied only Mr Ns 
genuine card could have been used so I cant see how this fraud can have happened 
whilst Mr N continued to have his debit card.
There are numerous disputed transactions lasting over a period of a month. I find it 
hard to believe Mr N wouldnt have noticed what was going on.
Mr N has told us he was away and offline for a period whilst spending quality time 
with friends. Barclays evidence shows Mr Ns mobile banking records and that his 
app was being used throughout.
Mr N has been unable to give us any clear information about where he supposedly 
was.
I appreciate Mr Ns strength of feeling on this matter that he didnt authorise these card 
payments, but I dont believe this is the case.
Overall Im satisfied Mr N authorised the disputed transactions. I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman