DRN-2756601
The complaint
Mr H complains about a data breach by Barclays Bank UK PLC. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Barclays wrongly sent a redemption statement for Mr Hs mortgage account to a firm of 
solicitors. The solicitors told Mr H theyd securely disposed of the redemption statement. 
Barclays agreed it made an error and offered compensation. Mr H says this isnt enough.
Our investigator said the compensation offered by Barclays was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He said Barclays responded promptly to put matters right. The solicitors had 
said the redemption statement had been securely disposed of and there was no reason to 
think the data breach would cause any future problems. 
Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Barclays made an error here. In April 2019 Barclays received a 
request from a firm of solicitors for a redemption statement for another customers mortgage. 
It sent a redemption statement for Mr Hs mortgage account in error. 
The solicitors said the redemption statement was disposed of. Theres no reason to think this 
wasnt true. I think its unlikely Mr H will be caused any problems or loss in future due to the 
redemption statement being sent to the solicitors.
Barclays sent a letter to Mr H dated 11 April 2019 saying it had sent a redemption statement 
for his account to his conveyancer. Barclays gave Mr H contact details for the solicitors in a 
letter dated 25 April 2019. Mr H contacted the solicitor and received an email response on 
2 May 2019: this said theyd received the redemption statement in error and discarded it. 
Mr H says he was shocked at the passing of his personal information, especially by one of 
the big banks. He says this shouldnt have happened and Barclays was painfully slow to 
respond. Barclays accepts it made an error. However, once it was aware of the error it says 
it got a confirmation from the solicitor that the redemption statement had been securely 
disposed of. And it gave contact details of the solicitor to Mr H. I think Barclays response 
was reasonable.
Putting things right
Mr H complained to Barclays about the data breach and other issues in October and 
November 2019. Barclays sent a final response in December 2019. It offered compensation 
of £350. This was made up of £100 for the late response to Mr Hs complaint, £100 for not 
replying to his letters in October and November 2019 and £150 for the data breach.
Ive considered the circumstances here: the nature of the data breach, that the recipient of 
the redemption statement was a firm of solicitors, that its unlikely to result in any loss and 
that the solicitor told Mr H within three weeks that the redemption statement had been 
discarded. In the circumstances, I think the £150 compensation offered by Barclays for the 
data breach is fair and reasonable. 
Barclays says it didnt respond promptly when Mr H raised a complaint about the data 
breach and other issues. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so I cant look into 
Mr Hs concerns about this here. Part of the concerns raised by Mr H in October and 
November 2019 relate to a separate complaint, which Im not looking into here. So I cant 
comment on the compensation offered by Barclays for these matters.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £150 to Mr H, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman