DRN-3061639
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has registered a marker against her at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
Whats happened?
Between February and May 2020, Mrs M made four online applications for a HSBC bank 
account. HSBC says that when she gave it her address history, she left off an address which 
had negative information linked to it. On 26 May 2020, it registered a marker against her at 
CIFAS for application fraud, on the basis of an undisclosed address. It says the marker was 
correctly recorded in line with its internal checks and procedures.
Mrs M has explained that she was only asked for three years of address history when she 
made the applications. Shes said the marker left her unable to open a bank account with an 
alternative financial institution and caused her embarrassment, and the whole situation has 
had a significant impact on her mental health over time.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. They didnt think there was sufficient justification for 
the marker to remain. They said HSBC should remove the marker and pay Mrs M £150 by 
way of compensation for the upset this matter has caused her.
HSBC didnt agree with our investigator, and Mrs M felt that she should receive more 
compensation than our investigator had recommended. So, the complaint has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether HSBCs report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
Mrs M says she has resided at the following three addresses since August 2016: 
an address which Ill refer to as address 1 between August and December 2016.
an address which Ill refer to as address 2 between January and March 2017.
an address which Ill refer to as address 3 since March 2017.
HSBC has confirmed it would have asked Mrs M for three years of address history on the 
account applications she completed. It has sent us the details she gave in three out of four of 
the applications. I can see that Mrs M only told HSBC about address 3 in the applications, 
and she said that shed been living there since March 2016. 
So, according to Mrs Ms own testimony, the information she gave HSBC was incomplete 
and inaccurate. She didnt disclose address 2 in her earlier applications, and she told HSBC 
shed been living at address 3 since March 2016 rather than March 2017. But the address 
which HSBC says Mrs M left off her applications was address 1. And Mrs M says she hadnt 
lived there in the previous three years, so she didnt need to disclose that address.
Ive looked at the credit file information that HSBC retrieved when considering the 
applications Mrs M made. The adverse information recorded against address 1 that has led 
to HSBC registering a CIFAS marker against Mrs M was put on her credit file in 2019. HSBC 
says that adverse information recorded against an undisclosed address within three years of 
an application is considered sufficient evidence for it to place a CIFAS marker without any 
further investigation. But I dont agree that this is a fair approach to take in all circumstances. 
I accept that it may be enough to cause HSBC to have a suspicion or concern. But the 
question is whether HSBC had sufficient grounds to conclude that Mrs M intentionally 
attempted to commit fraud  in other words, was she deliberately dishonest, intending to 
deceive HSBC for the purposes of opening a new account, or not. And I dont think HSBC 
can make a reasonable decision in this respect, in all cases, without looking at the wider 
picture.
Other information on Mrs Ms credit file suggests that she had an association with address 3 
since early 2017, in support of her testimony about her address history. And I note that the 
most recent finance at address 1 was taken out in August 2016. Considering Mrs Ms 
financial background, I think this is noteworthy and points to her living elsewhere after that 
time as shes said. It could be, for example, that Mrs M did not update the finance provider 
that recorded adverse information against address 1 in 2019 with her new addresses, so it 
simply recorded against the address it had on its files.
Overall, I dont agree that HSBC can reasonably rely on one aspect of the credit file in 
isolation, especially when that information conflicts with other information present. Looking at 
the whole credit file, I think the information is conflicting. But HSBC doesnt appear to have 
made a significant investigation into the matter at the time. For example, I cant see that it 
spoke to Mrs M or asked for clarity before adding the marker  and I think it really should 
have given her the opportunity to explain herself. This is a point of concern. It is difficult for 
me to see how HSBC could be satisfied that Mrs M intentionally tried to deceive it without 
really looking into the matter or trying to clarify the situation. Im not persuaded that HSBC 
should have assumed Mrs M was trying to commit fraud simply because she didnt disclose 
an address which she may or may not have resided at in the past three years with adverse 
information linked to it.
Also, any errors or omitted information in the applications could have been a mistake, not 
deliberate. Weve spoken to Mrs M during the course of our investigation and Im satisfied 
that her testimony is broadly consistent and plausible. She moved home a few times in 2016 
and 2017 and it was a difficult period for her  she was, in her own words, sofa-surfing and 
suffering with her mental health. Its reasonable that she could have made a mistake in her 
applications. I think this is supported by the fact that adverse information was recorded 
against address 3 too when she made the applications for HSBC accounts. It is difficult for 
me to see what benefit Mrs M wouldve seen to withholding one address with adverse 
information linked to it, yet disclosing another.
Of course, it is possible that Mrs M intentionally tried to deceive HSBC. But that alone is not 
a good enough basis on which to register a CIFAS marker. As Ive said, HSBC needed to 
have more than just a suspicion or concern about the possibility of fraud. It needed to be 
able to substantially evidence that this was fraud, and not merely a mistake or 
misunderstanding. But because of its apparent lack of investigation at the time, it doesnt 
seem to be able to do that. So, I am not persuaded that HSBC had sufficient grounds to 
apply this CIFAS marker, nor can I safely conclude that the marker is fair. Therefore, I direct 
HSBC to remove the marker in dispute.Lastly, Ive considered the issues Mrs M has faced since the marker was added, and the 
amount of time that this matter has been ongoing. Mrs M has said that her application for an 
account with another financial institution was turned down because of the marker, and I dont 
doubt that this would have been embarrassing for her. Im also persuaded that the presence 
of the marker over a protracted period would have caused Mrs M trouble and upset. But Im 
pleased to hear from Mrs M that she was able to open a bank account in 2020 as she 
wished. And whilst the marker may have had some impact on Mrs Ms ability to obtain other 
credit, from what Ive seen, Im not satisfied that it would have been the only factor affecting 
her creditworthiness. Overall, I think that £150 is a fair amount of compensation for HSBC to 
pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
remove the disputed marker.
pay Mrs M £150 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman