DRN-3901297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (ERGO) 
handled their claim for of the flood damage to their property and river wall made on their 
holiday home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a storm in mid-October 2018 (heavy rainfall), the river next to Mr and Mrs 
Hs property swelled and overflowed its banks, flooding outbuildings and the rear 
garden. The river wall had also been undercut and washed away. Due to the amount 
of damage to the river wall the main property in particular the side extension of it, is 
under threat of further damage
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the time taken to progress the claim and feel there 
have been unreasonable delays and there has been a lack of communication
ERGO has said this has been a complex case that has required the cooperation of 
third parties that has proven to be difficult at times. In addition, due to the nature of 
the damage it has required extensive planned works that need to be carried out in 
phases and with fair weather conditions
Our investigator upheld the complaint. However ERGO hasnt responded to his view 
of this complaint, The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman 
for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr and Mrs H have also raised concerns regarding underinsurance and the claim 
settlement being reduced by an average clause. These were not addressed in the final 
response letter issued by ERGO in May 2022. I note our investigator asked ERGO as part of 
his outcome to address these issues as a formal complaint. I will therefore not be addressing 
this issue within this decision as I can see we already have a separate complaint set-up at 
this service. 
With regards to this complaint, I can see there has been approximately 18 months of delays 
during the claim up to the issue of the final response in May 2022. These delays included 
claim approval, engineer appointment, an agreement of works, discussions with local council 
and government agency, stabilisation and clearing works, site visits and appointment of soil 
analysis contractors. 
I appreciate not all these delays were unavoidable such as the restrictions of working in the 
river between October and April each year due to the protection of the fish stock, Covid-19 
lockdowns, awaiting replies from local council and the government agency, and weather 
conditions - making it safe to work. But from what Ive seen ERGO were responsible for a 
considerable amount of avoidable delay and didnt appear to be actively progressing the 
claim. In addition, Mr and Mrs H were not being regularly updated. 
From what Ive seen the works were due to have been finalised in the summer of 2021 and it 
appears all parties agreed with the schedule of works by early September 2021. However, it 
appears that there wasnt enough time to get the work started before mid-October when 
works were not permitted in the river. However, by the time the final response was issued in 
late May I wouldve expected the works to have started and be well on their way to 
completion, but this hasnt happened. This has caused Mr and Mrs H an unreasonable 
amount of trouble and upset beyond what wouldve been expected by this type of claim 
including legal threats and abusive calls from neighbours due to lack of progress. I will 
therefore direct ERGO to pay Mr and Mrs H £600 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused up to the final response in May 2022. 
From what Ive seen there doesnt appear to be a plan in place on how the claim should 
progress. I would remind ERGO that under the regulators Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS) it has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly and bearing in mind 
this claim is now over four years old ERGO should put a plan in place for next steps of 
repairs and keep Mr and Mrs H regularly updated.
Putting things right
I direct ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft to:
Pay £600 compensation
Put a plan in place for next steps of repairs and regularly update Mr and Mrs H
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman