DRN-4196153
The complaint
Mr K complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claims on a taxi
insurance policy.
Much of the complaint concerns acts or omissions of Havens repairers or other agents.
Insofar as I hold Haven responsible for such acts or omissions, I may refer to them as
Havens. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claims and the complaint is a car with a diesel engine. It had first
been registered in 2016. Mr K acquired it in August 2020 (according to a later statement of
fact document).
For the year from late August 2021, Mr K, through a broker, insured the car on a
comprehensive taxi policy with Haven. The broker said that he had one years no-claims
discount (NCD). That was protected so that one claim in the year wouldnt reduce his
NCD.
In October 2021, the car passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 112,000.
Unfortunately in mid-January 2022, Mr K reported to Haven that a third party had
accidentally damaged the car in the area of its nearside headlamp.
From 21 January 2022, Haven provided a courtesy car for Mr K. Haven got his car repaired.
But the repair wasnt satisfactory. The repairer did rectification work.
From late February 2022, Mr K returned the courtesy car and used his car.
By an email dated mid-March 2022, Mr K complained to Haven that the repair still wasnt
satisfactory.
In April 2022, the car passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 128,000.
By a final response dated 16 May 2022, Haven or its repairer responded to the complaint of
March 2022.
Haven arranged an inspection of the car in mid-May 2022.
In mid-July 2022, Mr K reported to Haven that another third party had accidentally damaged
the car on its offside. By that time, its recorded mileage was about 140,000.
In late July 2022, Haven said it would get the further rectification work done along with the
recent accident damage. From about late July 2022, Haven provided a courtesy car.
Haven sent Mr K a renewal letter saying that he had two claims and no NCD.
In late August 2022, Mr K complained to Haven about delay and mishandling his claim.
Haven arranged an inspection of the car in late September 2022, but it had a flat battery.
In October 2022, Haven or another of its repairers collected the car. By a final response 
dated mid-October 2022, Haven partly accepted the complaint. It said that after Mr K made 
his claim in mid-July 2022, it had taken just over a week to provide a courtesy car. It 
apologised for delay in completing rectification work and starting the further repair. At the 
time of the final response in October 2022, Haven was still waiting for a report before 
authorising further rectification of the repair.
On about 25 October 2022, Mr K contacted Haven about the cars engine warning light, key
fob and speakers.
At that time, Haven or its repairers had Mr Ks car for repair. They returned it to him on about
11 November 2022. Mr K bought a new battery and got a mobile mechanic to do a 
diagnosis.
Mr K brought his complaint to us in mid-November 2022.
In late November 2022, Mr K told us that Haven was taking the courtesy car away.
In late February 2023, Mr K sent us a detailed statement of events.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. The investigator
thought that rectification work was required on the car and there had been poor 
communication. The investigator recommended that Haven should compensate Mr K a total
of £300.00.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K  
and to Haven on 14 June 2023. I summarise my findings:
Havens poor-quality repair and poor communication caused Mr K inconvenience and 
upset over a period of more than a year. For many months in 2022, he was driving a 
car with a number of cosmetic defects. He felt that Haven was ignoring him and he 
had to chase it and its various repairers and other agents.
I considered that, to some extent, Haven made up for this by providing a courtesy 
car. But it didnt offer compensation before the investigators opinion.
Subject to any further information from Mr K or from Haven, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Mr K £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr K disagrees with the provisional decision in part. He says, in summary, that:
His NCD is withheld while the case is open. Hes worried it won't be returned.
Between May and July 2022, he contacted Haven about rectification work, but it 
didnt respond.
Shortly after the second accident, he contacted Haven about the engine warning light many times  and sent it photos.
From 14 to 26 July 2022, Haven didnt provide a replacement car and he was unable 
to work so he lost earnings. He handed over all documents and bank statements to 
Haven and it agreed to pay him for this period. Haven later increased its deduction 
for his fuel costs. He has sent us statements for July and August 2022.
The battery ran out because the repair garage advised him not to run the engine with 
the warning light on. He has sent us a copy of an invoice dated early November 2022 
for a new battery. 
Haven does not want to reimburse him for the costs he incurred in this case, 
including for the translator who helped him write this complaint, and car rental after 
November 11, 2022.
The policy documents said the value of the car is about £14,000.00. Haven offered 
him about £9,500.00.
Haven has not paid him any money yet.
Haven hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this decision
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a consumers
complaint  the consumer must first have made that complaint to the business and waited
for up to eight weeks for a final response.
It follows that we usually investigate complaints that the consumer made to the business
before the final response. Later complaints usually have to be dealt with separately.
As Ive said, Mr K made a complaint to Haven in late August 2022 (to which Haven sent its
final response in mid-October 2022). I find that his complaint at that stage didnt include
complaint points raised later by Mr K as follows:
That Haven was treating both accidents as affecting his NCD.
That Haven or its repairer moved his car to another repairer in October 2022 without 
his knowledge.
That Haven or its repairer returned the car in November 2022 without a battery, with 
burnt parts under the bonnet and with a mileage recording of one mile less than 
before.
That Haven returned the car in November 2022 without having repaired the engine 
(or its warning light), or the speakers or the key fob.
That Haven offered him less than the value of the car.
So I consider that Mr K may make those complaints to Haven and wait for a final response
before we can deal separately with them.
The first claimI find that Haven was responsible for poor communication with Mr K.
As Ive said, after the first repair, Haven did rectification work. But the repair was still not of a
satisfactory standard, according to the inspection evidence.
Nevertheless, Mr K had the use of a courtesy car until he got his car back in late February
2022. From what Ive seen, the remaining defects were cosmetic. They didnt prevent Mr K
from using the car.
Mr K hasnt fully explained why he didnt do more to chase up further rectification work
between mid-May 2022 and mid-July 2022 when he reported the second accident.
The second claim
I find that Haven was responsible for poor communication with Mr K.
Haven again provided a courtesy car (see also Loss of earnings below).
Mr Ks car sat on his drive. In late August 2022, he found that its battery had gone flat. I can
see why he blames that on delay by Haven. But I consider that he couldve prevented it by
running the engine from time to time or otherwise charging the battery. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Haven to compensate Mr K for the consequences of the flat battery, 
including the cost of a replacement. 
From late August 2022, Mr K didnt renew the policy. He made a SORN to DVLA for his car. 
I consider that Haven was responsible for delay in inspecting Mr Ks car and collecting it for
repair.
I keep in mind the scope of this decision (see above). So I dont intend to make any findings
about events or complaints after the final response.
Loss of earnings
Mr Ks statement in late February 2023 referred to the July 2022 courtesy car as follows:
In the meantime I used a courtesy car. There was a delay with that as well, as I kept
asking about t courtesy car and finally I got it 10 days later  which meant I had no
means to work in that period, and my boss kept asking me if I was ready to return to 
work.
I eventually lost assignments from that employer and I only received jobs sporadically
(when previously I had been one of the main drivers).
Overall, I consider that Haven provided a courtesy car for at least as long as was fair and
reasonable. I dont accept Mr Ks later statements that Haven had caused him to lose his
job. For that reason, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to pay compensation 
for loss of use of a car or for loss of earnings.
In any event, Mr K still hasnt provided us with enough detail of his earnings to show that 
Haven caused him a loss of earnings.
Mr Ks response to the provisional decision
Mr K has said that he contacted Haven many times between May and mid-July 2022 when 
he reported the second accident. But he hasnt given any details of how and when he made contact. And Ive found that Mr K hasnt fully explained why he didnt do more to chase up 
further rectification work.
As Ive said above, I consider that Haven provided a courtesy car for at least as long as was 
fair and reasonable. For that reason, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to pay 
compensation for loss of use of a car or loss of earnings. In any event, Mr K still hasnt 
provided us with enough detail of his earnings to show that Haven caused him a loss of 
earnings.
I accept that Mr K is worried about his NCD. But in August 2022, he hadnt complained about 
Havens handling of that issue. Thats why Ive said above that Mr K may make that and 
other complaints to Haven and wait for a final response before we can deal separately with 
them.
I accept that Mr K had let Haven know about the warning light. I accept that in November 
2022, Mr K got a mobile mechanic to do a diagnosis that included burnt installation. But in 
August 2022, Mr K hadnt complained about Havens handling of that issue. Thats why Ive 
said above that he may make that and other complaints to Haven and wait for a final 
response before we can deal separately with them.
I accept that Mr K paid for a new battery in November 2022. But in August 2022, he hadnt 
complained about Havens handling of that issue. Thats why Ive said above that Mr K may 
make that and other complaints to Haven and wait for a final response before we can deal 
separately with them.
Mr K has sent us a copy of a translators invoice for about £300.00 in relation to services in 
late 2022 and early 2023. The Financial Ombudsman Service is able to translate complaints 
free of charge. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to reimburse Mr Ks costs 
of a translator.
As Im not dealing at this stage with a complaint about the condition in which Haven returned 
the car in November 2022, I cant deal with Mr Ks complaint about the consequences of 
that, including cost of hiring a car. Mr K has sent us invoices for car hire in late January and 
early February 2023.
Mr K hasnt said when Haven offered him about £9,500.00 for the car. But in August 2022, 
he hadnt complained to Haven about that issue. So its another complaint which Mr K may 
make to Haven and wait for a final response before we can deal separately with that and 
other complaints. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about directing Haven to do further work to rectify the first repair. But that would
be a cosmetic repair of a car which has an engine problem with an unknown cost of repair   
as far as I know. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to do further work at
this stage.
I keep in mind the scope of this decision (see above). So I dont intend to give any directions
about events or complaints after the final response, including the condition of the car since
November 2022.
I find it fair enough to direct Haven to pay Mr K compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with each complaint on its merits. We have apublished approach to compensation for distress and inconvenience. I dont find it helpful to
do a detailed comparison of Mr Ks case with examples he has found on our website.
I keep in mind the scope of this decision (see above).
Havens poor-quality repair and poor communication caused Mr K inconvenience and upset 
over a period of more than a year. For many months in 2022, he was driving a car with a
number of cosmetic defects. He felt that Haven was ignoring him and he had to chase it and
its various repairers and other agents.
I consider that, to some extent, Haven made up for this by providing a courtesy car. But it
didnt offer compensation before the investigators opinion.
Weighing all this up, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Haven to pay Mr K £500.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr K £500.00 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman