DRN-3350742
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt
fairly deal with their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs N bought a timeshare from Business C in May 2005. The cash price was
£9,288 and it was funded by a loan taken out in joint names from GE Money. The loan was
due to run for 15 years.
Mr and Mrs N say that, when they purchased the timeshare, they were told that the
product was a good investment, there would be a high level of availability for bookings
and the membership could be sold at any time.
So Mr and Mrs N say that Business C misrepresented to them at the time of sale the nature
of the product, as it was not akin to an investment, the availability for bookings, and their
ability to sell back the membership. Mr and Mrs N also say that, had they known what
Business C had said wasnt right, they would not have purchased the timeshare in the first
place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the time of sale, Mr and Mrs N  using a representative
 wrote to GE Money in October 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
As it doesnt look like GE Money responded to Mr and Mrs Ns claims, a complaint was
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The complaint was then looked at by an adjudicator  who shared his answer with both
sides rejecting the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed. So, the complaint was passed to
me for a decision.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. And as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr and Mrs N and GE Money my provisional decision to explain why I think I didnt 
think I should uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. And I said Id consider anything else they 
wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 10 May 2022. Neither Mr and Mrs N or GE 
Money has not responded to the provisional decision. As the 10 May 2022 has now 
passed I will issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision, which I have included below, explained why I thought Mr and Mrs 
Ns case should not be upheld. In the absence of any new information or points from Mr and 
Mrs N and GE Money, my final decision is that GE Money did not unfairly turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ns claim under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act and Mr and Mrs N case 
should not be upheld. 
Findings from my provisional decision dated 13 April 2022
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. This includes the law and regulations,
regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice.
Having done so, Im not going currently minded to direct GE Money to do anything further to
resolve the matter and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the
wider circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs N that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs N say that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of
the timeshare agreement. So, they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if
it could be shown that this claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA,
GE Money would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering this claim. I
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs N may
have to bring this claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this
decision Im considering whether GE Money has to do anything further in response to
this claim.
A claim in court for misrepresentation against Business C would ordinarily be brought
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of
Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2
LA or an action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the
cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs N made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9
LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued
to make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to
make a legal claim occurred. And in Mr and Mrs Ns case, thats when they could have
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE Money.
So, I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare i.e. in
May 2005 as it was at that time that they entered into the agreement based, they say, onthe misrepresentations of Business C. They say, had the misrepresentations not been
made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a
loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in May 2005. And it was from
then that Mr and Mrs N had six years make a claim. But as they didnt try to contact GE
Money about their claim until October 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in
the LA, I see no reason to now ask GE Money to do anything notwithstanding the fact it
doesnt appear to have responded to the claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a
determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act
sets out what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies to. In short, if a credit agreement
had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in
respect of that credit agreement.
GE Money cant provide any evidence about when Mr and Mrs Ns loan ended as it
doesnt have records that go that far back. Im not surprised by that as there is no
requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. Looking at the loan agreement
I note that the borrowing was taken out in May 2005 and was due to run for 15 years.
So, I think there is a chance that it could have been in place after 6 April 2008. But
based on the evidence Ive seen, and bearing in mind how long businesses tend to
keep records for, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs Ns credit agreement
ended at least six years prior to the point at which they made their claim, which was
October 2018.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. And it was held in Patel v. Patel [2009]
EWHC 3264 (QB) that, when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim
was made. As the limitation period is six years, and as Mr and Mrs N only made their claim
in October 2018, I think they are likely to have made their claim too late.
Commission
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs N say about the amount of commission that
might have been paid by GE Money to Business C for arranging the loan. They think GE
Money should have told them about that.
Im satisfied that, had such a payment been made, GE Money wouldnt have breached
any duty by making it  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of
commission paid in these circumstances. And from what Ive seen across the industry, if
commission was ever paid it tended to be low and often less than 10%. So, for that
reason, I think its unlikely that the levels of commission normally paid in this situation
were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated that not
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs N risked the relationship being unfair under section
140A
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim thatMr and Mrs N may have against the Business C or GE Money has expired under the LA.
But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs N might
have against GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA.
And for that reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things
right in this complaint.
Unaffordable lending
The assertion that GE Money lent to Mr and Mrs N irresponsibly was framed in the Letter
of Claim as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. But
Ive already explained why I think that falls outside of the time limit set by the LA. And as
lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question wasnt an
activity covered by our jurisdiction in May 2005, I cant consider GE Moneys decision to
lend any further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman