DRN-4020436
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the advice given by Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
(Quilter) trading as Cox & Company Independent (Cox) not to transfer the benefits of her 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
What happened
Mrs K approached Cox in October 2020 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mrs K 
had deferred benefits in a DB scheme and she was looking to transfer the benefits of this to 
a personal pension to access it. Mrs K was told that she needed to receive financial advice 
to do this. 
Cox completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Ks circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that she was aged 57 and married. She had been made redundant in early 
2020 and she had a chronic illness. Mr K was employed full time. He had a yearly income of 
around £57,000 after tax. 
Mr and Mrs Ks expenditure was recorded as being around £84,000 each year. This was 
partly because of some borrowing they had. Their mortgage had around £230,000 
outstanding to be repaid over a relatively short term. And Mr and Mrs K had further loans of 
around £58,000 made up of unsecured debt and credit cards. The payments to these were 
also significant due to the higher interest rates they had. 
Mrs Ks DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value of £565,368.
The point of sale information shows that Mrs K wanted to access the benefits from her 
pension to repay some of this debt and to take an ad hoc income. As far as I can see, she 
wasnt planning to return to work due to her illness and she wanted to, at least partly, replace 
her income. She also wanted to improve on the death benefits available from her pension. 
She wanted to ensure the full fund would be available for her children. 
Cox also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ks attitude to risk, which it said was moderate.  
She wanted to invest in line with this attitude to risk. 
In May 2021 Cox sent Mrs K its abridged advice letter which said that it was inconclusive 
about whether it would recommend that she transfer her DB scheme benefits. Following this, 
Mrs K agreed to receive full advice. 
In September 2021, Cox advised Mrs K not to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
The transfer was unsuitable for her as she would be unable to replicate the benefits 
she would receive from the scheme in a personal pension. The transfer wasnt 
financially viable. 
And whilst she did have a chronic health condition this didnt affect her life 
expectancy, so she shouldnt transfer for health reasons. 
The death benefits, and the amount of tax-free cash she could take in a personal 
pension were favourable, but this didnt outweigh the reduction in the benefits she 
would ultimately receive. 
Mrs K complained in 2022 to Quilter about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said the 
process had taken too long and she was told she would be able to transfer in any event. 
Quilter didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It said that it was right that she was advised not to 
transfer. Giving up the guaranteed income she would get from the DB scheme represented 
too high a risk for her. It did accept that the advice process had taken too long and it offered 
Mrs K £350 for the distress and inconvenience this would have caused her. 
Mrs K referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She says the advice 
process was poor. The communication was not regular or timely. And she thinks that she 
should have been advised, or allowed, to transfer her DB scheme. And as she hasnt been 
able to this she has had to use some savings which has left her and her husband worse off. 
Mrs K says this all this has all caused her some distress and inconvenience. And because of 
this she feels the fee she paid is unfair.
An Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint about the transfer. She said that advising 
Mrs K not to transfer was in her best interests. Cox did inform her about the advice process 
and that it may not lead to a transfer. It also informed Mrs K about the costs of the advice 
and that it wouldnt process her transfer on an insistent customer basis. 
Our Investigator agreed that the advice process took too long, but she thought that Quilters 
offer of £350 compensation was reasonable.
Mrs K disagreed, saying that the conversations with the adviser were always positive about 
the transfer. And she thought she would be able to access her pension fund whatever the 
outcome of the advice process was. She says she was informed in her conversations with 
the adviser that she would be able to transfer as an insistent customer. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Cox explained that it would firstly offer abridged advice. And this advice could have one of 
two outcomes  that a transfer was unsuitable, or it was unclear if it was suitable or not. If it 
was unclear, Mrs K would have the option of taking full advice.
The information Ive seen indicates that Cox followed this process as set out to Mrs K when 
advising her. And this process seems to be in line with guidance the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), set out for providers giving abridged pension transfer advice in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), under COBS 19.1A. I note that the abridged 
service resulted in an inconclusive recommendation about the transfer. Mrs K then asked for 
full advice to be given.
And there are further rules and guidance that Cox needed to follow when giving advice. The 
most important of these are the provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when 
giving a personal recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 
which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Cox should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Ks best interests. And having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
So, having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Financial viability 
Cox carried out a transfer value comparator report (as required by the regulator) to show 
what sum of money Mrs K would need to invest at a risk-free return to provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme at 65 (the schemes normal retirement age) assuming she took a 
full pension. The cost of providing these equiravlent benfits at her time of retirement was 
shown to be £905,532.91, which was £340,164.91 more than the transfer value. 
It also calculated how much Mrs Ks pension fund would need to grow by each year to 
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield). Mrs K was 58 when the 
TVAS was produced (shed had a birthday since the start of the advice), and the schemes 
normal retirement date was 65. The critical yield required to match Mrs Ks benefits at age 
65 was 8.7% if she took a full pension and 7.81% if she took tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension. This means that the transferred pension would need to grow at these rates each 
year, over the six year term, to match the benefits given up. 
These returns are high, and it wouldnt normally be realistic or probable for an investment to 
be expected to grow at this rate, over this term. In contrast, Mrs Ks DB scheme provided a 
guaranteed and escalating pension. And the information Cox recorded at the time, and relied 
on to support the advice, showed that it was highly unlikely Mrs K would be better off 
financially in retirement as a result of transferring. 
So, I think the conclusion reached by Cox, that transferring Mrs Ks DB scheme benefits was 
likely not in her best interests from a financial viability perspective, was reasonable.
But financial viability is not the only consideration  there might be other compelling reasons, 
which would make a transfer suitable. And Mrs K said that at the time of sale she was 
attracted by the ability to release some cash, and the increased death benefits.
Flexibility and income needsMrs K was 57 at the time of the advice and wanted to take some of her pension benefits as 
soon as possible. It was recorded that at age 65 Mrs Ks DB scheme would provide a total 
income of £22,745.83. Or it could provide a yearly pension of £17,833 plus tax free cash of 
£118,892. If she took all of her pension benefits immediately, she would receive an annual 
income of £19,040.23.
But Mrs K didnt want to take her full pension. She was seeking advice to transfer her 
benefits away from the DB scheme and access the fund immediately as she was no longer 
working. She wanted to effectively take the benefits, especially the tax-free cash, and repay 
some of their debts. 
The suitability letter acknowledged that the flexibility from a personal pension would be 
beneficial, and this can sometimes be a good reason to transfer a DB scheme. But this went 
on to detail all of Mr and Mrs Ks potential sources of retirement income. All the parties to the 
complaint are aware of these so I wont provide this detail here. But it concluded that Mrs Ks 
DB scheme would be a very important part of their retirement provision. And the guaranteed 
and increasing income the DB scheme would provide would be the best way for them to 
meet their retirement needs. It went on to say that it would only be suitable to transfer away 
to increase flexibility if the DB scheme wasnt a source of income that Mr and Mrs K would 
be relying on in their retirement. But this wasnt the case here. 
Mr and Mrs K did have some debts and I can see the repayments to these were significant. 
Whilst their income was recorded as being less than their outgoings, they also dont seem to 
have been in any immediate difficulty as they had savings. And it looks like there was scope 
to change how their borrowing was managed, and repaid, to alleviate any difficulty it may 
have been causing. So, I dont think it would have been good advice to change Mrs Ks 
pension arrangements before they had considered other ways they could have managed 
their borrowing. 
So, Cox concluded that Mrs K shouldnt transfer to increase the flexibility she had. Taking 
into account the available information and the starting assumption the FCA said Cox needed 
to make, I dont think that conclusion was unreasonable at the time of sale.
Death benefits
One of the reasons that Mrs K wanted to transfer was to improve on the death benefits her 
family could receive if she died before them. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs K. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs K might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs K about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. So, Cox was right to say that Mrs K shouldnt 
transfer for this reason.
And Cox did consider Mrs Ks heath situation. Whilst it was acknowledged that she did have 
some health problems, it wasnt demonstrated that they would impact her life expectancy. So 
Cox concluded that this wasnt a good enough reason to transfer her DB scheme benefits at 
this time. I think this was the right approach as Mrs K would likely need her pension in 
retirement. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs K.The time the advice took
Mrs K has said she is unhappy with how long the advice process took. 
As Ive explained, Cox was required to base its advice on Mrs Ks circumstances. This, in my 
view, included taking into account her full pension provisions and all of her circumstances. 
Cox needed to request information from Mrs Ks pension providers, make the calculations 
Ive referred to above and produce some detailed reports. And all of this does take some 
time. 
The advice process started in November 2020. In the initial period Cox gathered some 
information it needed, and I can see that Mrs K and Cox were in contact about this in late 
2020 and early 2021.
But there were delays here. From what I can see Cox took around two months to start 
working on Mrs Ks transfer after the initial meeting in November 2020. I understand Cox 
was particularly busy towards the end of the tax year in 2021. Mrs K had provided some 
further information that Cox had asked for in February 2021 straight away. But Cox doesnt 
seem to have looked at this information, it told Mrs K there would be a delay in March 2021. 
And it didnt really seem to progress the transfer until April 2021. 
This led to Mrs Ks pension transfer advice not being provided as quickly as it could have 
been. The abridged report was not produced until May 2021 which is a very long time from 
first contact. 
In July 2021 Mrs K agreed to receive full advice. Again, this took a fair while to do. As further 
information needed to be obtained and more calculations done. This was not finally 
concluded until October 2021. Although I understand the advice was given in September 
2021. So, whilst this was another few months, it was much shorter than before and is within 
the times I would ordinarily expect this type of advice to take. So, this timeframe does not 
seem unreasonable. 
 
There have clearly been delays here and Quilter has acknowledged this. Im sure that this 
will have caused Mrs K some distress and inconvenience. But I think the majority of her 
distress has been caused by the advice not to transfer, rather than the time it took to reach 
this point. So given all of the circumstances of this complaint, I think the compensation that 
Cox has offered for the delay of £350 is reasonable. 
The fees Mrs K paid for the advice and information about an insistent client process
Mrs K did pay for the advice. She paid £750 for the abridged advice and she will pay a 
further £7,730 for the full advice, this was 1.5% of the fund value. I understand this is a lot for 
her to pay. And I can also understand her frustration when she didnt receive what she 
thought was the right advice. But Cox is entitled to be remunerated for the work it has done 
and I dont think the cost for the advice was unreasonable. The fees were disclosed to her, 
and she signed to confirm that she would pay them whatever the outcome of the advice. 
Mrs K has essentially said that she incurred these fees on the understanding that she would 
be able to take the benefits from her pension in any event, even if this meant Cox would 
need to process the transfer as an insistent customer. 
As our Investigator said, Cox informed Mrs K that this would not be the case. The terms of 
business which she signed say that. We do not facilitate transactions against our 
recommendation in either our abridged or full advice services. I appreciate that Mrs K said that she was informed that this would be different in some of the 
conversations that she says she had with Cox. But Ive not seen enough to support what she 
says, and the documentation say does say that the transfer wont take place on an insistent 
customer basis. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to uphold her complaint about this 
issue. 
Summary
I understand that Mrs K disagrees with Coxs advice and the recommendation she was given 
in 2021. But Im satisfied Coxs advice was based on her individual circumstances and 
needs at the time and that having considered these it said it wasnt in Mrs Ks best interests 
to transfer the benefits from her DB scheme to a personal pension.
I appreciate that Mrs K and Cox have differing views of what was in her best interests and I 
do understand her reasons why. But I think its important to stress that Coxs role here 
wasnt simply to transact what Mrs K wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mrs K, and in 
doing so it had to look beyond what Mrs K wanted and make a determination of what it 
believed was in her best interests. And from what Ive seen, its clear that it believed Mrs Ks 
chosen path, which was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement, wasnt in her best 
interests. I think this was a fair and reasonable conclusion for Cox to have made at the time.
I want to clarify that I cannot change or influence the rules the FCA sets for businesses  
thats not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service. My role is to consider individual 
complaints to assess if any wrongdoing requires putting things right. And in this case, Im 
satisfied the advice wasnt wrong or that it was unfair. 
I think Cox should have processed the transfer quicker and communicated better with Mrs K. 
I think the £350 compensation it has offered is reasonable. 
Putting things right
Quilter should pay Mrs K £350. If it has already paid this, it doesnt need to pay this again. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I dont think the advice Cox 
gave was wrong, but it did delay the advice process. Because of this Quilter Financial 
Planning Solutions Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman