DRN-3701320
The complaint
Mr H complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) (Klarna) registered two late payment markers 
on his account. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr H purchased an item using a fixed sum loan agreement from Klarna. 
Later that month he set up a direct debit mandate so Klarna could take monthly payments 
towards the debt.
In late January 2022 Mr H went to purchase a kitchen using credit through a different 
provider and was declined. He explained at this point he realised there was a problem with 
his credit file and that two late payment markers had been logged against him by Klarna. 
Mr H contacted Klarna and was told hed correctly set up his direct debit mandate but he 
hadnt set up autopay within his Klarna account and both were needed in order for 
payments to be taken by Klarna. So, Klarna had been unable to take payments towards the 
debt in November or December 2021 via direct debit.  
Mr H was unhappy and complained to Klarna. He said hed never been made aware he 
needed to set up autopay and stressed that all hed ever needed to do with previous credit 
agreements was set up a direct debit mandate. Klarna didnt uphold his complaint. It said 
Mr H had been notified that Klarna had yet to receive payment  he had been emailed twice 
a month, with his statement and a reminder email. That being said, it agreed to remove the 
November 2021 late payment marker from his credit file due to the lack of clarity surrounding 
the autopay process. It also apologised for any inconvenience or distress caused. 
Mr H still didnt think this was a fair resolution to his complaint and so he brought the matter 
to our Service. Mr H clarified that he made overpayments towards the debt of £100 in 
October 2021 and payments of £115 and £220 in January 2022 which means the missed 
minimum debt repayments were for very small amounts of around £8-9 each. He told us that 
he didnt think to check his bank account to see if these amounts had come out. 
Mr H said that as a result of Klarnas mistake he was declined for credit in January 2022 and 
was unable to purchase a kitchen at a discounted price  he said the kitchen would cost him 
£3,076.03 more post sale period and he thinks Klarna should pay the difference, in addition 
to removing the negative credit marker from his file. 
Our Investigator looked into things and initially upheld the complaint. They didnt think Klarna 
had made the requirement for autopay clear and they didnt think Mr H would necessarily 
have realised payments had been missed from the correspondence hed received. 
He recommended Klarna remove the late payment markers, refund any late fees and pay 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. He didnt recommend Klarna 
pay the difference in kitchen cost as Mr H never purchased the kitchen. 
Klarna disagreed with the Investigators view. It said it had sent emails to Mr H on 
5 December 2021 and 6 January 2022 which told him Klarna hadnt received his last 
payment  so it said he ought to have known there was a problem. However, it offered to 
pay Mr H £50 compensation in recognition of the confusion with autopay.
After reviewing the evidence, our Investigator changed their opinion and didnt think Klarna 
needed to do anything further. They said that, on balance, Mr H wouldve read these emails 
and therefore could have avoided the late payment markers. And they felt the £50 
compensation offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr H disagreed outlining the emails had gone to his junk folder, so hed never seen them. 
He asked for an Ombudsmans decision on his complaint and so the matter was passed to 
me to decide.
Our Service sent Mr H the evidence Klarna had shared which indicated that hed opened the 
email on 5 December 2021.
In response Mr H said this email was still sitting in his junk folder unopened. He said Klarnas 
evidence didnt make sense because it showed hed opened the email at nearly midnight but 
he had an early meeting the next day and so would have been asleep.
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was it clear Mr H needed to set up autopay for payments to be taken?
Having reviewed the evidence Klarna has sent our Service, Im not persuaded that it was. 
As Klarna has acknowledged, this is not a commonplace requirement when setting up a 
direct debit within the UK. So, I wouldnt have expected Mr H to have known about this 
unless he was told.
Mr Hs welcome email doesnt mention autopay nor does the credit agreement itself. 
Following the set up of the direct debit Mr H was sent mandate success emails by Klarna 
and neither of these alerted him to the fact he also had to enable autopay in order for 
payments to be taken. Having reviewed these emails, they clearly state the direct debit had 
been successfully set up. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr H to assume at this stage that 
hed put in place the arrangements he needed to to ensure payments would be taken.
In reaching this view I have also considered the autopay promotional email which was sent 
to Mr H on 6 December 2021. But having reviewed this I dont think it makes it clear that this 
is required in addition to a direct debit.
So overall I dont think Klarnas communication was sufficiently clear and I do think it made a 
mistake. Which means I need to consider the consequences of this. 
Mr H said this is what caused him to miss his minimum payments but Klarna has disagreed 
saying Mr H ought to have been aware of the missed payments in any event. 
Ought Mr H to have been alerted to the missed payments in any event?
Mr Hs Klarna statements showed the following:
The first page of the statement uploaded around 5 December 2021 showed £7.78 was the minimum payment due by 31 December 2021 and that there was £9.07 
overdue from previous statements. At the bottom right hand corner of the first page of 
the statement was a section which stated: you have failed to make a minimum 
payment. This section was in bold but in the same size font as the rest of the 
statement containing payment information. 
The first page of the statement uploaded around 6 January 2022 showed £16.85 was 
overdue from previous statements. Again, at the bottom right hand corner of the first 
page of the statement was a section which stated you have failed to make a 
minimum payment  bold. The third page of the statement was a notice of sums in 
arrears and showed the missed payments from 4 November and 4 December 2021. 
I appreciate Mr H thought everything was in order with his direct debit. However, theres no 
doubt that Mr H was sent information by Klarna indicating there was a problem. 
The statements were available to him within his Klarna account and this was reiterated in the 
account statement ready emails sent to him on the 5 December 2021 and 6 January 2022. 
These emails told Mr H his statement was ready, included a link and immediately 
underneath this clearly stated: we didnt receive your last payment. And I do I think Mr H 
should have checked the information he was being sent by Klarna in order to make sure 
things were in order.
Im aware Mr H says he never received the account statement ready emails as they went 
into his junk folder. He also said that the email of the 5 December 2021 remained unopened 
in his junk folder. However, the evidence Klarna has sent indicates Mr H did open the 5 
December 2021 email the same day it was sent. Where evidence is incomplete or 
conflicting, I have to decide what I think is most likely. 
Id note the evidence Klarna has sent is quite persuasive as it shows the date and time each 
of the emails was opened. I appreciate Mr H has also said this evidence doesnt align with 
his movements that day, but Mr H has told us that this is an email address he shares with his 
wife. Its not clear if Mr H is suggesting this may have been an email she opened and he 
missed, but I have to consider this to be a possibility. Even if this were the case, it was 
Mr Hs choice to use a joint email account for his loan agreements and if this private 
arrangement means he missed key correspondence from Klarna, this isnt something I would 
hold Klarna responsible for. So, on balance, I think its more likely Mr H, or someone 
operating Mr Hs email account, did open the December 2021 email from Klarna.
But, even if I were to decide that this email wasnt opened, Im still satisfied it was sent. 
And its not Klarnas fault if Mr Hs email provider flagged this as junk, nor is Klarna 
responsible for the fact Mr H chose not to check his junk mail or his account statements. 
Ultimately, I think Mr H was sent information by Klarna in December 2021 which ought to 
have alerted him to a problem. And had action been taken at this point, I think the 
December 2021 late payment marker would have been avoided as I dont doubt Mr H had 
every intention of making the minimum payments. For these reasons, I dont think Klarna is 
responsible for the December 2021 missed payment marker.
I mention the December 2021 marker specifically, as Im not persuaded Mr H would have 
been able to avoid the November 2021 late payment marker. I say this as it would seem the 
payment deadline had already been missed at the time this statement and the 
accompanying email were issued. So, this is something I think Klarna is responsible for  but 
Id note Klarna has removed this late payment marker from his credit file already. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mr H thinks Klarna is entirely responsible for the missed payments due to the 
lack of information about autopay, but Im not satisfied this is the case. I think he was given information that ought to have alerted him to the missed payments and so he had an 
opportunity to avoid the December 2021 late payment marker  which is the matter which 
remains in dispute.
Given this, whilst I agree Klarna made an error in not being sufficiently clear about its 
autopay requirements, I dont think its responsible for the fact Mr H missed his minimum 
payment in December 2021. I note Klarna has already removed the November 2021 late 
payment marker which I think is fair in the circumstances. I also think the £50 it has now 
offered is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of 
clarity and the November 2021 late payment marker.
Had the issue with the November 2021 missed payment been raised by Mr H in December 
2021, I think its most likely the late payment marker would have been removed from his 
credit file in time for Mr H to purchase the kitchen he wanted in late January 2022. So, I dont 
think any potential loss here is a result of Klarnas error and I wont be asking Klarna to 
compensate Mr H for this. I would also note that Im not persuaded the two late payment 
markers were the sole reason Mr H was declined credit for his kitchen. Every lender makes 
its own decision using its own criteria when deciding whether to provide credit or not. I've not 
been provided with a copy of Mr H's credit file, so I don't know what else was on there. 
Therefore, I can't safely say this this was why Mr H was unable to obtain credit for his 
kitchen. I appreciate Mr H has said he had a good credit score, but lenders can consider 
other factors including existing available credit and committed expenses. And, if Mr Hs 
finances were in such a healthy position that this was the only reason hed been declined, 
and hed wanted to take advantage of the sale price, I think it's likely he could've funded this 
in another manner. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay 
Mr H £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused and to remove the November 2021 late 
payment marker from his credit file if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman