DRN-1321260
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
 In January 2002 HSBC sold Mr and Mrs M PPI alongside a mortgage during a meeting at 
the bank. The policy protected their mortgage monthly repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs M feel the policy was mis-sold as they say they weren't given sufficient 
information about the policy and it wasnt ever made clear that the PPI was optional.
They also say they had other means they couldve relied on to make their monthly mortgage 
repayments  and Mr M was concerned that as they were both self-employed, they couldnt 
have benefitted from PPI. 
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
disagree. In particular, in response to the adjudicators assessment Mr M says he may have 
wrongly filled in some information given that this was so long ago  and its possible he 
mightve been working at the time for an employer who paid him sick pay. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
HSBC has been able to provide me with copy records from Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
application. This shows that what they told our adjudicator about their employment 
circumstances appears to be correct - they were both self-employed when they took out this 
mortgage and the PPI. 
Ive thought carefully about the information I've got to help me decide if HSBC made it clear 
to Mr and Mrs M that PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs M wanted to take it.
I cant fairly say that HSBC didnt make Mr and Mrs M aware that PPI was an optional 
feature, just based on what Mr and Mrs M say. I have to decide what I think is most likely, 
taking into account all the information Ive got and the wider circumstances. 
Looking at the details HSBC has provided, despite what Mr and Mrs M have said, I think its 
likely that the adviser did discuss PPI with them and they agreed to have it. Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of what was discussed 
during a meeting that took place so long ago may no longer be completely reliable. 
But I can see that theres nothing in the mortgage agreement itself that suggests PPI was 
compulsory or that the mortgage wouldnt have been offered without PPI. 
And HSBCs records indicate that various insurance options were discussed  and whilst 
Mr and Mrs M declined some of the available options, they said Yes to PPI. 
Based on the information available, I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely 
to uphold this complaint on the basis that Mr and Mrs M didnt know they were taking out 
PPI. I think, on balance, HSBC probably did make Mr and Mrs M aware that it was up to 
them to say if they wanted PPI and they both chose to have it.  
I dont know if HSBC gave Mr and Mrs M the PPI documents it said it did or exactly what 
was discussed when Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage and took out PPI. But even if 
HSBC didnt give them all the information it shouldve done I dont find that PPI was mis
sold. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs M were both eligible for the PPI according to the policy terms and conditions 
when they took out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs M were both in work and contributing to the household income. So, I think it was 
appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names. 
The cost of the policy was initially around £48 a month and was free for the first six months. 
The total monthly benefit was £800 and Mr and Mrs M were each covered for a 
proportionate amount. The benefit was payable for up to 12 months per claim  and repeat 
claims were possible, so the policy offered long term protection whilst Mr and Mrs M were 
paying for their home.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M told us they had other means to pay their 
mortgage. But its unclear to me how much (if anything) they mightve had in savings at the 
time. And theres no guarantee when Mr and Mrs M took out this mortgage that they 
wouldve always had savings to rely on. Having PPI also meant Mr M could keep shares he 
owned secure in the long term as he wouldnt have been forced to sell these to pay the 
mortgage. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment for Mr and Mrs M and the policy offered 
valuable protection if either (or both) of them couldnt work due to illness or unemployment. 
Even though they were both self-employed, I dont find that it wouldve been any harder for 
them to make a claim than it wouldve been for someone who was employed. And it doesnt 
look as if either Mr M or Mrs M was affected by any of the other main conditions that 
mightve limited the policys benefits to them. So, even if not everything was mentioned, I 
dont think that knowing more about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take it out. 
Given the problems that arise when mortgage payments arent kept up to date, I dont feel 
that Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances made the PPI recommendation unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs M couldve cancelled the policy without any cost at the end of the six months 
free period - or at any time after that without extra cost, if circumstances changed or they 
decided they didnt want to pay for it any longer.  Taking all their circumstances into account and the benefits that the PPI offered them, even 
if there were failings in the way HSBC sold PPI to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think that better 
information wouldve put them off having it. 
This means that I dont find that Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything that HSBC 
mightve done wrong. And so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
 My final decision
 For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman