DRN-3795757
The complaint
Ms J, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly
What happened
Using information from Morses, here is a brief loan table of the seven approved for Ms J.
Loan Start date Capital 
AmountTerm in 
weeksRepayment 
amountRepaid date
1 2 April 2016 £200 21 £15.44 9 Sept 2016
2 27 May 2016 £100 20 £7.50 2 Dec 2016
3 9 Sept 2016 £200 20 £15 19 Dec 2016
4 16 Dec 2016 £150 33 £7.50 21 July 2017
5 19 Dec 2016 £200 20 £15 16 June 2017
Four month gap
6 27 Oct 2017 £350 33 £17.50 25 May 2018
7 25 May 2018 £350 33 £17.50 11 Jan 2019
Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) and did not uphold Ms Js complaint. Her
representative referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our adjudicators
looked at it.
His view was that by loans 6 and 7, Ms Js need for credit had increased, and at loan 7 her
income had dropped a great deal. And he considered the repetitive nature of the lending and
the lending pattern showed that she hadnt reduced her loan amounts consistently over
a reasonable period and from the information we hold we know she had been indebted to
Morses for around 2 years in total. Our adjudicators view was the pattern of lending itself
showed that the loans from loan 6 were unsustainable  so he did not think Morses should
have given Ms J loans 6 and 7.
Morses disagreed and gave several reasons why, all of which I had read. The unresolved 
complaint was passed to me to decide. On 25 November 2022 I issued a provisional 
decision in which I gave reasons why I thought that the complaint ought to be upheld for 
loan 7 only, mainly because I held a different view on the four month gap in the lending 
relationship which made a difference to the outcome.
Since then both Ms Js representative and Morses have responded to agree with my 
provisional decision. And so, I have proceeded to final decision and the provisional findings 
made are unchanged and form the final determination set out below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home 
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Js
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Ms J. These factors include:
Ms J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms J. Our adjudicator considered this to
be the case for Ms J.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms J could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms J was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Js complaint.
I agree that the four month gap in lending after loan 5 would not be long enough for me to
think that the lending relationship had ceased. Ms J had been borrowing from Morses since
April 2016 and by June 2017, when Ms J had paid off loan 5, that would have been
14 months of consecutive loans. So, a four month gap would not be long enough for me to 
think that when she returned in October 2017 she necessarily needed to be treated as if she
were a new customer. The relationship had been well established and four months would not
likely lead Morses to think that.
However, I depart from our adjudicators view when considering whether Morses had been
lending to her so often that the repetitive nature meant that the lending had become
unsustainable to Ms J. I do not think that a four month gap lends itself to upholding that view.However, I do think that by loan 6 when Ms J did return and needed a much higher loan than
before, additional checks ought to have been carried out.
But, to assess what it is that Morses may have found in relation to Ms Js financial position if
it had carried out further checks at loan 6, then Id need to see additional information from
Ms J. But no financial details or documents to support her complaint have been sent to us. 
Since issuing my provisional decision in which I gave this provisional finding, Ms J has not 
sent anything further and has agreed with my provisional findings. 
And so, using the evidence I have, I do not feel persuaded to uphold Ms Js complaint about
loan 6. 
As for loan 7, Morses has been clear that its agent did carry out some verification checks on
her incomes for loan 6 and loan 7 and so it would have noticed  or ought to have noticed -
that her income had dropped from £330 a week to £180 a week. I consider that a significant
change.
In addition, the income and expenditure spreadsheet Morses has provided for us shows that
at loan 7 Morses knew Ms J was paying £40 a week for other credit and her groceries
budget had dropped drastically from £90 a week  a realistic figure  to £40 a week  an
unrealistic figure in my view.
The combination of all those factors, about which Morses knew, plus Ms J was needing an
additional £350 on the day she was repaying loan 6, leads me to think that Ms J was not
likely able to afford a further £17.50 a week. I think that using the groceries figure used at
loan 6, together with the new loan repayment of £17.50 a week then Ms J would have been
left with about £30 a week which I think is just too tight to be reasonable.
Morses and Ms J have accepted what I said in my provisional decision and so having 
reconsidered the complaint my view remains the same. I uphold Ms Js complaint about 
loan 7.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms J at loan 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms J may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
 have been able to lend to Ms J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Ms J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it hasdone wrong and should put right.
I do not think that Morses shouldnt have given Ms J loan 7.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest,
fees and charges on loan 7, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Ms J the total of A plus B.
D) remove adverse payment information about loan 7 from Ms Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms J a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Js complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman