DRN-4470974
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) handling of a claim made 
under her residential property owners insurance policy.
Fairmead is the lead insurer of Mrs Bs policy, so Ill refer to them throughout. Where I refer 
to Fairmead, this also includes any actions or communication by any agents appointed to act 
on their behalf.
What happened
Mrs B owns a property which was let to tenants. Following the tenants leaving the property, it 
was subject to vandalism/malicious damage in December 2022. Mrs B made a claim to 
Fairmead, her residential property owners insurance policy provider.
Mrs B was unhappy with Fairmeads handling of her claim. So, Mrs B brought a complaint to 
this service which was partially upheld by one of our investigators.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ill explain that I dont intend on commenting on every event or communication that 
occurred. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, instead it reflects the informal 
nature of this service and my role within it. Instead, Ill focus on the points I consider key in 
reaching a final decision which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill also 
summarise what our investigator initially thought, and what he later thought was fair and 
reasonable.
Having said that, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information 
theyve provided when reaching my final decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case.
A number of issues were raised by Mrs B about Fairmeads actions and claim handling. One 
of our investigators looked into things. In summary, he initially said:
Fairmead hadnt effectively completed the witness statement, and this caused 
unnecessary delays.
The loss adjuster had contacted Mrs B, despite the breakdown in communication and 
there was a failed appointment.
Whilst Mrs B stayed at the insured property for a short period of time, there was no 
cover under the policy for alternative accommodation for Mrs B.
Its not unusual for insurers to appoint and delegate handling of claims to agents to 
act on their behalf. But in any event, Fairmead would be responsible for the actions 
of their agents.
An allegation of racism was made against Mrs B, but he wasnt able to make a 
finding on this. And in any event, Mrs B claimed defamation, and that would be an 
issue for the courts to consider.
There were delays caused by Fairmead in the claim, but he didnt agree with Mrs B 
that Fairmead should have, or was required to, reach a claim decision within 24-48 
hours.
He said he thought Fairmead could have reached the settlement around a month 
sooner, so he said Fairmead had caused Mrs B to unnecessarily incur one month of 
costs for the property. 
The schedule of works noted the incorrect type of flooring at Mrs Bs property, and 
this discrepancy hadnt been sufficiently explained to Mrs B. 
He said that Fairmead was willing to send a contractor to visit and review the 
concerns Mrs B had about the schedule of works in order to reconsider the cash 
settlement amount. He said this was fair, or as an alternative, Fairmead should allow 
Mrs B to provide quotes for Fairmead to review.
Fairmead hadnt yet paid Mrs B for some other costs she submitted, which included 
locksmith and tyre removal charges.
The investigator upheld the complaint in part and recommended Fairmead:
Pay Mrs B one month of costs incurred for the insured property (mortgage payments) 
with 8% simple interest added.
Pay the invoices Mrs B had provided with 8% simple interest added.
Either arrange to visit Mrs Bs property to review the concerns Mrs B had with the 
schedule of works or agree for Mrs B to provide her own quotes for repairs.
Neither party agreed with the investigators initial view or recommendations, and both 
provided comments and information in response to his assessment. 
In summary, Mrs B said:
The cash settlement wasnt made until March 2023 and wasnt explained.
Fairmead hadnt explained the discrepancy on the schedule of works relating to the 
flooring.
Fairmead should pay utility costs at the property until she was able to get in and 
switch them off.
Fairmead should have made a claim decision within 24-48 hours.
Fairmead should have used their own contractors.In summary, Fairmead said:
They had tried to move things forward but there were instances where Mrs B made 
this difficult.
It wasnt correct that they were willing to reattend, instead they had already cash 
settled the claim, and the costs the investigator mentioned were already included in 
this.
Following this, the investigator revisited matters. His view on the complaint, and what 
Fairmead needed to do to put things right, changed.
In summary, he concluded:
The discrepancy over the flooring hadnt been explained sufficiently by Fairmead, but 
he also gave an explanation of why this was, and he was satisfied the flooring had 
been fairly considered in the scope of works.
It wasnt fair for Mrs B to have been accused of racism, this was poor service and 
would have caused Mrs B distress.
He summarised a number of calls Mrs B had with Fairmead and how they werent 
productive in moving things forward.
Mrs B didnt have reasonable expectations that Fairmead would reach a claim 
decision in 24-48 hours, and Fairmead hadnt acted unreasonably in needing to 
validate the claim.
Fairmead hadnt handled the witness statement interview as well as it could have, 
and Fairmead had noted this internally too. So, he thought this had caused some 
delays.
He now didnt think Fairmeads contractor had failed to attend in a timely manner.
The cash settlement had actually already included the locksmith, tyre removal and 
key safe costs, so this didnt need to be considered or added.
Having revisited matters, the investigator now didnt think that Fairmead had caused a month 
of delays, so he no longer thought they needed to reimburse the mortgage payments. He 
thought there were things that could have been handled better by Fairmead. But he also said 
Mrs B didnt have reasonable expectations that a claim decision would be made in 24-48 
hours, and she was very unhappy during the telephone conversations with Fairmead when 
this expectation wasnt met, and this impacted on the claim progression.
However, the investigator said there was still some evidence of points of poor claim handling 
and service, so he recommended Fairmead should pay Mrs B £250 compensation (instead 
of the £100 compensation theyd already offered).
Fairmead initially didnt agree but then later accepted. Mrs B didnt agree.
Ill focus on (and summarise) what I consider are the key points when reaching my final 
decision.
The time taken and delays
Our investigator provided detailed summaries of the calls he listened to. I wont summarise 
those again, as both parties are already aware of what happened during the calls, as they 
were both party to them. But in short, I agree with what our investigator concluded.Im satisfied that Fairmead reasonably attempted to move things forward, but Mrs B was 
very frustrated during the calls that things were taking longer than she expected and some of 
the calls werent productive. Mrs B was expecting to have a claim decision within 24-48 
hours and was unhappy that this didnt happen in each of the subsequent conversations she 
had with Fairmead. 
Mrs B says that the rules set by the regulator require a claim decision within 24-48 hours. 
But Mrs B hasnt outlined which rule(s) specifically she thinks require this. Id expect an 
insurer to handle a claim promptly and fairly, but a claim will need to be validated and this 
will always take some time. But I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly by taking longer than 
24-48 hours to do so. Whilst many of the calls werent productive, I do think Fairmead were 
trying to move things forward.
Mrs B was also unhappy Fairmead were using third parties to handle things on their behalf. 
However, this isnt unusual across the insurance industry, and I dont think Fairmead acted 
unreasonably by doing so. But Fairmead already accept that their original loss adjuster 
shouldnt have contacted Mrs B after shed complained about them, and they offered £100 
compensation for this.
However, whilst I think Fairmead were trying to move things forward, like our investigator, I 
share the view that the witness statement could have been completed more effectively. The 
witness statement took over two hours, in which communication between Mrs B and the 
interviewer was positive. But despite the time taken, and positivity of the conversation, it 
doesnt appear some of the key information which Fairmead needed to know was actually 
asked by the interviewer. This is recognised by Fairmead in their internal notes that the 
witness statement didnt add much value in being able to move things forward.
Having reviewed everything that happened, I dont think Fairmead is solely responsible for 
the time the claim took. So, I wont be directing them to pay Mrs Bs mortgage costs. But 
there were some elements of poor claim handling and service, so Ill be directing Fairmead 
to increase the compensation from the £100 they already offered to £250, as I think thats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Schedule of works and the settlement amount
Mrs B was unhappy with the schedule of works that was completed by Fairmead. The main 
issue with this seems to be the reference to parquet flooring requiring disposal and 
replacement. But Mrs Bs property doesnt actually have parquet flooring. So, Mrs B wanted 
this amended on the schedule of works.
I think this discrepancy could have been clarified by Fairmead much sooner. Whilst it was 
noted as parquet flooring, this was due to the internal coding on Fairmeads systems being 
limited. But what this actually translates to, is the cost of preparation, replacement and 
varnishing of a wood floor, and disposal of the old floor. And this was the most suitable code 
for Fairmead to record this against. But this wasnt sufficiently explained to Mrs B, which 
meant she was then concerned about the scope of works accuracy.
Whilst Im satisfied this accurately reflects replacement of the flooring, how this has been 
recorded and why, could have been clarified to Mrs B much sooner to alleviate those 
concerns. Mrs B also wouldnt allow another contractor to visit to consider the issues she raised with 
the schedule of works, so Fairmead cash settled the claim by paying Mrs B £3,719.86 in 
March 2023. And this also included costs of the locksmith, tyre removal and the key safe, 
despite invoices not being provided. Given Mrs B wouldnt allow any further visits, I dont 
think Fairmead acted unfairly by cash settling the claim based on the scope of works.
Mrs B has said that the flooring cant be removed. However, no evidence has been provided 
by Mrs B in support of that. So, I cant reasonably conclude that Fairmead has acted unfairly 
here. But if Mrs B has any evidence which supports this (or that any of the items cash 
settled isnt sufficient) she should contact Fairmead with evidence to discuss this. But based 
on what Ive seen, I think the cash settlement paid by Fairmead in March is reasonable, so 
Im not going to direct them to do anything further at this stage.
Allegation of racism 
Mrs B says the loss adjuster who visited her made an allegation of racism against her based 
on a comment Mrs B had made. This seems to stem from a call in which Mrs B was 
struggling to understand what the agent was saying. Mrs B has pointed out that she had no 
knowledge of the ethnicity of the call handler, and instead was struggling to understand what 
they were saying.
However, an allegation of racism is a very significant allegation. And like our investigator, I 
can see why Mrs B would be unhappy with this allegation being made against her.
Utility costs
Mrs B says Fairmead should cover the costs of utilities until she could gain access to her 
property. However, from what Ive seen, the policy doesnt provide cover for this. Instead, 
Mrs Bs claim is for malicious damage/vandalism, but I cant see that the policy extends to 
cover consequential utility costs.
Summary
Overall, I dont think Fairmead was solely responsible for the time the claim took to reach 
settlement, and I do think Fairmead actively tried to move things forward. But I also do think 
there were some elements of poor service too.
Whilst Im not going to direct Fairmead to pay Mrs Bs costs including mortgage payments, I 
will, like our investigator, be directing them to increase the total compensation from £100 to 
£250. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of the case.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mrs B a total of £250 compensation (including the £100 already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman