DRN-3942526
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave to transfer 
the benefits from his former employers defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M was a deferred member of his employer's DB scheme. The scheme was in deficit and 
in 2011 Mr Ms former employer offered scheme members enhanced cash equivalent 
transfer values (CETV) to consider transferring out of it. The employer engaged JLT to offer 
scheme members advice on the suitability of a transfer. The employer paid JLTs fees and it 
did not receive any commission for arranging transfers.
JLT gathered information about Mr Ms DB scheme entitlements. It asked him to complete a 
fact find questionnaire including information about his attitude to risk. Amongst other things 
JLT established that Mr M was 40, employed, married with two dependent children. He was 
in good health. His retirement age was 65. He was paying into his new employers pension 
scheme. He assessed his own attitude to risk as balanced.
JLT obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) which compared Mr Ms entitlement 
under his DB scheme with what he might receive if he reinvested the funds in a personal 
pension. Amongst other things the TVAS said that Mr Ms unenhanced CETV was £25,637, 
but after adding the employers enhancement of £11,593, that rose to £37,230. It set out the 
growth rates required to match the benefits from the DB scheme (the critical yield) If Mr M 
transferred his CETV into a personal pension at age 65. Those were 6.6% if Mr M took a full 
pension or 6.3% if he took tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension.
On 5 December 2011 JLT sent Mr M its suitability report setting out its advice and 
recommendations. Amongst other things it said the enhanced CETV was only on offer until 
6 January 2012. Under a heading of Your Objectives, it listed the following as being 
important to Mr M:
The fund benefits were a significant proportion of his retirement funding.
On death before retirement his dependants would receive significant sums from other 
sources so higher death benefits were not an absolute priority.
He would prefer not to move his pension to an individual plan under his control.
The ability to take TFC at retirement.
He wanted his pension to increase to provide some protection against inflation.
JLT said the critical yield of 6.3% was within an achievable range for someone with Mr Ms 
balanced attitude to risk. It said the highest return it felt was acceptable was 7.4%. It added 
that transferring to a personal pension could result in higher TFC. But it noted that 
transferring conflicted with Mr Ms preference not to have the pension under his control. It 
also warned him that moving out of the DB scheme would involve taking risks which he 
wouldnt have to bear under the DB scheme, most notably the risks of market volatilities. 
However, based on the critical yield and Mr Ms balanced attitude to risk, it recommended 
Mr M should transfer out of the DB scheme and into a named personal pension.
JLTs adviser followed up the suitability report with a phone call to Mr M which lasted around 
40 minutes. During that call, the adviser ran through some of the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring. He said that Mr M had to balance the possibility of a better 
income in retirement against the risks that he would be taking on by transferring. In particular 
that there were no guarantees the investments would do as well as expected and could 
leave Mr M worse off. The adviser said JLT believed the investments should be able to grow 
at an average of around 7.4% a year but acknowledged that over the previous five years the 
average growth rate was around 5%. 
Mr M later confirmed he wished to transfer his DB scheme funds. When he completed the 
application for the personal pension he put on it that his preferred retirement age was 62.
In 2021 Mr M complained to JLT as he felt its advice wasnt suitable for him. JLT didnt 
uphold his complaint. In brief, amongst other things, it said the difference between its 
estimated growth rate of 7.4% and the critical yield of 6.3% generated a positive margin of 
1.1% which provided some protection against poor investment performance. But it had 
warned Mr M about the risks inherent with such a transfer. It added that Mr M was under no 
obligation to go ahead with it. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She upheld it and 
recommended that JLT should pay compensation. 
JLT didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint so its been referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, JLT should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Ms best 
interests overall. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied that JLT 
has been able to demonstrate it was in his best interests.
Was JLTs advice suitable?
JLT carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as the DB scheme (the critical yield).
JLT gave its advice during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable at the time JLT gave its advice. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was 6.6% if Mr M took a full pension and 6.3% if he took a reduced pension and 
TFC. This compares with the discount rate of 6.5% per year for 25 years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ms balanced attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. I appreciate that the critical yield figures and discount rate are broadly 
comparable  although the discount rate would exceed the critical yield if Mr M took TFC. 
But that margin was relatively small. And there would be little point in Mr M giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve similar benefits outside 
the scheme. 
JLTs said that it wasn't required to refer to the discount rate when it gave its advice. And it 
told Mr M that it estimated his funds would grow at 7.4% a year. I dont know how JLT 
calculated that figure. But, given Mr Ms balanced attitude to risk, he could reasonably 
anticipate his funds growing at the regulators projected middle level rate of 7% at the time, 
which I find more reliable than JLTs own figures. And while that figure remains higher than 
the critical yields, in order to achieve that growth Mr M would still need to put his otherwise 
safeguarded benefits at risk. 
Further its notable that Mr Ms pension pot would be reduced by fees. In this case the 
personal pension JLT recommended had fees which were 0.23% of the fund value each 
year. Those charges are at the cheaper end of the scale compared to some other personal 
pension plans. But when compared to a DB scheme, where a member like Mr M pays no 
fees at all, it is a fee that reduces any positive margin that investing in a personal pension 
gives. And that margin would narrow even further if Mr M did eventually decide to retire 
early, as the funds would have less time to grow.
Also, JLTs recommendation was dependent on Mr Ms fund attaining average growth above the critical yield level over a 25 year time-span. But if there was a sustained period of poor 
performance or crashes in the markets, then there was a very real chance that Mr Ms fund 
would grow at a much slower rate or could suffer losses. And that could see Mr M 
considerably worse off in retirement. 
I acknowledge that there was a possibility Mr Ms personal pension might outperform the 
required critical yield. But once that growth was reduced by the effect of charges, I think the 
margin was far too narrow to positively recommend that transferring was in Mr Ms best 
interests. 
Further, Mr M was 40 years old at the time of the advice. He was still 25 years away from the 
schemes normal retirement age, and 22 years away from the date he said he wanted to 
retire at when he applied for the personal pension. So, he had no urgent need to make a 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. That was something he could make a 
decision about nearer to his retirement age, if it was still something he was considering. I 
appreciate that the former employers offer of an enhanced CETV was time limited. So, it 
was something Mr M may not have been offered again. But, in order to realise tangible 
benefits from that enhancement, he had to put guaranteed benefits at risk. I don't think it was 
in his best interests to do so.
Also, as far as I can see Mr M didnt have any other objectives that would make transferring 
out of the DB scheme suitable for him. He did say that TFC was important to him. And it is 
often the case that TFC can be more generous from personal pensions. Thats because 
consumers can take 25% of the full pot as TFC, whereas DB scheme rules tend to be stricter 
about how much TFC their members can take. So TFC sums are often lower from a DB 
scheme. But, the amount available as TFC from a personal pension would be dependent on 
investment returns. And, if the fund grew at a lower rate or suffered losses, as set out above, 
then the overall fund would be smaller and the TFC sum lower. So transferring to a personal 
pension didnt guarantee Mr M a larger TFC sum. In any event he still had entitlement to 
TFC under the DB scheme. So, he didnt need to transfer his DB funds to a personal 
pension in order to receive TFC.
Its also notable that Mr M specifically said he didnt want to have control over his funds. That 
is he didnt wish to be responsible for the investment decisions. But, in transferring to a 
personal pension that was essentially a role he was taking on. While the named personal 
pension provider would undoubtedly offer Mr M a range of managed funds to invest in - in 
line with his attitude to risk - it was a choice Mr M hadn't expressed any desire for. And at 
that time, had no experience of. So, recommending a transfer to a personal pension wasnt 
in line with that objective. 
I think its worth repeating that the regulators guidance is that an advising firm like JLT 
shouldn't recommend a transfer from a DB scheme unless it can clearly show it was in the 
customers best interests overall. But in this case I dont think it managed that. As I've said 
above there was a chance that Mr M could be better off in retirement by transferring to a 
personal pension. But  as its adviser recognised several times during his call with Mr M  it 
was anything but guaranteed. 
Ultimately, I dont think JLTs advice was suitable. By accepting that advice Mr M was giving 
up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income for a relatively slim prospect of an 
improved income in retirement against the possibility he would be worse off. And in my view, 
there was no clear evidence that a transfer would be in Mr Ms best interests. So JLT should 
not have recommended that Mr M transfer out of his DB scheme. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against JLT's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs advice. I say this because Mr M was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a 
significant proportion of his retirement provision. So, if JLT had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come 
into effect.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG 17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
For clarity, while Mr M expressed a preference to retire at age 62, he has not yet retired, and 
he has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
JLT may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, JLT should pay the compensation if possible 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, JLT 
should pay it directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date JLT receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further JLT must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JLT to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90- day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90- day period in which interest wont 
apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JLT to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require 
JLT Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require JLT 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
JLT pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman