DRN-3240523
The complaint
Mr G complains about a motor insurance policy he took out with Yoga Insurance Services 
Limited.
What happened
Mr G went online and used a market comparison website to search for a new motor 
insurance policy. Mr G opted to take out a policy through Yoga and he was then taken to 
Yogas website to complete the purchase, for which he made a deposit payment of 
£49.99.
Mr G wanted to pay for the insurance on a monthly basis and so Yoga arranged for a 
finance provider, who Ill refer to as C, to provide the credit to him for the cost of the 
policy. 
C sent Mr G an email which provided a link to some documentation relating to the 
finance agreement, but Mr G says he couldnt access the information in the link. 
Because of this, Mr G called C, who stated that this can sometimes happen.
Mr G then became concerned about the policy overall and so exercised his right to 
cancel this  within around 30 minutes of taking out the cover.
Yoga then sent Mr G an email saying it would charge him £49.99 for arranging and 
setting up the cover. Mr G doesnt think this is fair  he only took out the policy 30 
minutes before cancelling it, and the link provided to him by C wasnt working.
Yoga replied to Mr Gs complaint to say it wouldnt uphold it. It said that it made it clear 
to Mr G before he took out the cover that it would charge a fee for setting up the cover if 
it was cancelled within 14 days of the policy being purchased. And that the fee is to 
cover the costs to it in setting up and arranging the cover.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He didnt think the complaint ought to be 
upheld. The investigator found that the set-up charge had been made clear to Mr G 
before he agreed to take out the cover, and he didnt think cost of the policy set up was 
unreasonable. The investigator also found that the issues Mr G faced with the link 
provided by C werent the responsibility of Yoga.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he thinks Yoga should be held 
responsible for the actions of C, as Yoga arranged for C to provide the finance 
agreement. Mr G states that he made attempts to contact both Yoga and C before 
cancelling the policy but didnt have any luck in resolving the issues and so this is why 
he cancelled. Because Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching 
my decision. Mr G has sent this service a lot of information for me to consider during the 
course of this complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its 
not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding 
what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an 
answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless its relevant to the crux 
of the complaint.
Firstly, its worth noting that Yoga are an insurance broker. It is the role of a broker to set 
up and administer a policy. 
In this case, I can see that Yoga did set up a policy for Mr G, arranged for it to be 
underwritten, and arranged for finance through C. So, I dont think it would be fair of me 
to say that Yoga didnt carry out its responsibilities in arranging cover for Mr G.
Looking at the sales process that took place prior to Mr G agreeing to take out the cover, 
I can see that it was made clear to Mr G that a fee of £49.99 would be payable if the 
policy was cancelled in the 14 day cooling off period - this is also shown in the policy 
documents too. The fee covers Yogas costs for arranging the policy. The policy was 
cancelled by Mr G within the first hour of it being set up. Given what Ive said about Yoga 
carrying out its role in arranging the cover for Mr G, I dont find it unreasonable of it to 
charge the £49.99 it said it would when Mr G cancelled the policy within 14 days of 
taking it out.
Mr G strongly feels that Yoga should be held liable for the actions of C  in that a link to 
the finance documents didnt work. As the investigator has already explained in detail, 
Yoga and C are separate companies. I cant hold Yoga responsible for the actions of C. 
And, while I cant look into Cs actions, Mr G cancelled the policy within an hour, seemingly 
not giving much of an opportunity for the issue to be looked into and rectified. Nor for Yoga 
to rectify this on Mr Gs behalf.
Mr G feels that it wasnt made clear to him who the finance provider were before he 
agreed to take the cover  this may well have been the case, but if Mr G had wanted to 
use a specific finance provider for the agreement, then he could have made enquiries 
with Yoga before agreeing to take the cover. And Ive not seen anything to suggest he 
did that.
Overall, I cant fairly say that Yoga have acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the 
fee. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman