DRN-3227260
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly declined to make a 
chargeback following a dispute.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M gambled using an online casino Ill refer to as Company A.
A problem arose when Mr M tried to withdraw his winnings. After several attempts 
using various methods, he contacted Santander and asked it to complete a 
chargeback. He provided it with a disputed transaction form and supporting evidence.
Santander declined the chargeback as it said the dispute didnt meet the relevant 
criteria of goods or services either not as described or defective. Instead it said the 
gambling, which it considered the service in question, had taken place. So, there was 
no dispute for it to raise under the relevant chargeback rules.
Mr M brought his complaint to this Service. Our investigator initially upheld the 
complaint, directing Santander to either process the chargeback or settle the 
disputed sum, and award £100 in compensation.
Santander responded, quoting a section of the Mastercard chargeback rules.
Chargebacks are available to the issuer for transactions in which any value is 
purchased for gambling, investment or similar purposes. However, issuers have 
no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value, unspent chips, or 
withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the 
use of such chips or value.
The Investigator looked again, and in light of the rules highlighted by Santander, 
agreed they specifically show Mr M would have no chargeback rights for the scenario 
he had raised.
Mr M disagreed with both Santanders and the Investigators interpretation of the 
rules. He also cited several decisions issued by this Service which he said show his 
complaint should be upheld. Additionally, he said the funds were never made 
available for gambling because there was no opportunity to win a prize  as the 
vendor was not registered with any gambling authority.
The Investigator didnt change her mind, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint brought to this Service concerns whether or not the dispute he has with 
Company A meets the criteria of the chargeback rules.
Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme's rules. So, Ive begun by considering 
what they say. Based on the rules (outlined above), its clear to me there are no chargeback 
rights related to the use of chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on 
any winnings, gains or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value.
In this case, Mr M appeared satisfied he was able to gamble with Company A. In his 
complaint to this Service he has referenced claiming his winnings. This in itself suggests to 
me he was able to gamble with Company A in the way he intended and his dispute lies with 
the withdrawal of such value within the account  which is specifically excluded from the 
rules. So, on its face, it appears Santander fairly declined the chargeback. 
Mr M has indicated the overall service provided by Company A was a scam, and in light of 
its actions and lack of registration with any gambling authority that he would have never 
been able to claim his winnings. In turn, hes said this Service should consider the overall 
service provided by Company A to be not as described, and not consider it as gambling as 
he never had any opportunity to win. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but Im not persuaded by Mr Ms argument. I understand Mr 
Ms strong feeling on the matter, but his difficulty with withdrawing funds isnt enough to 
persuade me there was no opportunity for him to win at all. So, on the balance of 
probabilities, I think Santander acted fairly by considering the matter as gambling and 
declining the chargeback as it did.
Ive also considered the decisions issued by this Service that Mr M has referenced. This 
Service determines each case on its own merits, and that is what Ive done in this case.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman