DRN-3749766
The complaint
Mr B complaints through a representative that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him 
two lines of credit which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B first approached Drafty for a running credit facility in November 2018. Mr B was given a
facility with a £1,850 credit limit. The credit limit remained the same while Mr B had it and he 
successful repaid the facility in January 2020. 
Mr B then approached Drafty for a second credit facility in April 2022 this had a limit of 
£1,300 and Mr B repaid the facility in July 2022. 
Mr B was given running credit accounts where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limits in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limits. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be 
clear, Mr B was not given payday loans. 
In Draftys final response letter from May 2022 it explained the information it gathered from 
Mr B before it approved the two credit facilities which showed hed be able to afford them. 
So, it didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Bs representative referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator who partly upheld it. She thought the 
checks Drafty carried out before granting the first facility were proportionate and showed 
Drafty Mr B was likely to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the 
hypothetical payment schedule in Mr Bs credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was wrong 
to have initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr B with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure it was affordable at the outset, it also had an 
obligation to monitor Mr Bs ongoing use of the facility. 
The adjudicator thought, by 15 November 2019 the way Mr B had used the facility showed 
he wasnt making headway into servicing it and it ought to have shown forbearance to Mr B. 
Mr B had had also held the facility for around a year and yet he owed Drafty more than the 
credit limit of £1,850. Overall, the adjudicator thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and 
shouldve frozen the interest on the first facility at this time. 
The adjudicator also concluded Drafty carried out proportionate checks before the second 
facility was approved  which showed it to be affordable and as Mr B only held the facility for 
a few months there wasnt any indicators of financial difficulties. The adjudicator didnt 
uphold Mr Bs complaint about the second facility. 
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mr B from 15 November 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8% 
simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from the uphold 
date should be removed from his credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time for the first facility (15 November 2019), but it agreed to only 
refund the interest fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date rather 
than suspending interest on the whole balance. At the time the offer was made, after tax and 
8% simple interest Mr B would receive a refund of £26.11. Drafty it also agreed to remove 
any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied from 
15 November 2019. It said this was because: 
As the assessment is about whether our decision to continue lending the money was 
appropriate or not, your decision implies that any draws granted after 15th November 
2019 were inappropriate, and we should refund any interest paid on them. However, 
it also implied that draws granted prior to the upheld date were reasonable for us to 
grant...
Draftys offer was put to Mr Bs representative, and it wasnt accepted. As no agreement has 
been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
As explained, Mr B was given two open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mr B would be able to both service and then repay his facilities within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mr Bs repayment record for any sign that he 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point reached on the first facility, as 
it offered some redress from this time  15 November 2019. And while, Mr B rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty, neither he or his representative didnt disagree that this is the 
point where the complaint ought to be upheld nor that Drafty hadnt done anything wrong in 
relation to the second facility. So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree that the only part of Mr Bs 
complaint which can be upheld is on the first facility from 15 November 2019. However, what 
is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the redress 
proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed, that by November 2019 the facility had likely 
become unsustainable for Mr B and therefore Mr B ought to have been offered some 
assistance. So, there doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when the facility likely became 
unsustainable for Mr B.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mr B while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 15 November 2019 needs to be refunded. 
So, I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in November 2019. There were a number of options which Drafty could have taken. 
But seeing as none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been 
taken. Ive considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right 
sometime after the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing 
this sometime after the event. 
As Ive said above, and as the adjudicator pointed out, I do think the facility had likely 
become unsustainable for Mr B by November 2019. Afterall, by now he had been repaying 
the facility for around a year and yet still owed Drafty his entire credit limit. In addition, his 
repayment pattern up until this point, was generally, at least the minimum payment being 
made and then Mr B returned  normally within a matter of hours to drawdown any available 
funds. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become demonstrably 
unsustainable  instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the 
customer repay what theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mr Bs balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of him being unable to repay, when the 
manner in which he was serving the facility indicated he was struggling, and this wouldve 
been reinforced with further checks.
So, although, I do accept that the balance up to the uphold point was legitimately provided 
and appeared affordable for Mr B at the time it was lent, once the point had been reached 
where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have exercised forbearance 
in order to allow Mr B to repay what he owed. In these circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair 
and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging interest on this balance from 
15 November 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it therefore follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that Mr B couldnt afford. He also couldnt afford to repay what he already owed 
 so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns needs 
to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mr B. Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following:
 
Re-work Mr Bs first credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied from 15 November 2019 until the first facility was closed are removed. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the credit facility once these adjustments have 
been made Drafty should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should backdate this to November 2019.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr B, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments have been made, then Drafty should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman