DRN-3979996
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have closed his account without good reason.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2023, and this is what I 
said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold it, so there will be a different outcome to
what our investigator proposed.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 17 February 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have closed his account without good reason.
What happened
In late June 2022, Mr B applied for a Lloyds current account and was issued with a bank
account number and informed the account was opened.
However, a few days later, Lloyds made a decision to close his account saying this was in
line with their terms and conditions. They suggested Mr B establish the reason by requesting
a copy of his credit file.
Mr B complained to Lloyds as he didnt understand, but Lloyds again suggested he request a
copy of his credit file.
Mr B followed this advice but, as he is still mystified by Lloyds decision, he complained to our
service, wanting to know the reason and have his account reinstated.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said banks don't have to elaborate on
the reason for declining applications.
As Mr B remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first looked at whether Lloyds decision was an account application decline or an account
closure. This is because of conflicting comments contained within Lloyds correspondence in
which they say theyve both declined the customer an account and successfully opened an
account.
As there are communications saying the account was open and Mr B obtained an account
number, Im satisfied this is the case. And, as Lloyds closed it only a few days later, it
appears they made a premature decision here and subsequently werent satisfied with the
responses they received from standard enquiries with fraud and credit reference agencies.
I then looked at Lloyds terms & conditions and, whilst its clear Lloyds are not obligated to
give a reason for ending the agreement, for the following reasons I found it necessary to ask
Lloyds to confidentially share their closure rationale with our service:
1. To ascertain whether, having opened the account, Lloyds shouldve given Mr B
notice of at least 2 months in advance as stated in the following terms and conditions:
If we end the agreement we will act reasonably and reduce any inconvenience to
you. We can end this agreement (or account, benefit or benefits package or service)
without telling you in advance if we reasonably think that:
 there is or may be illegal or fraudulent activity connected to the account;
 you are or may be behaving improperly. This includes being abusive or threatening
to our staff or including abusive or threatening messages in payment instructions;
 a regulator or Government may take action against us (or another Lloyds Banking
Group company) unless we end it;
 we may break the law or regulatory requirement if we don't end it; or
 you have broken the agreement in a serious way
If we want to end the agreement for any other reason, we must tell you at least 2
months in advance.
2. To confirm Mr B has been treated fairly, bearing in mind Mr B says he has followed
Lloyds advice regarding his credit file and cant understand the reason and Mr B thinks a
mistake may have been made. Furthermore, on this point, Mr B has pointed out a house
number discrepancy on his Lloyds record and I cant see that Lloyds have looked into this.
However, Lloyds sent the following response to my request:
We are unable to provide evidence of the information we received. Only Mr B can request a
copy of his credit file, which will highlight the specific reason.
Although I appreciate Lloyds do not have to give Mr B the reason or expand on the
information theyve given him, due to the current lack of information, I cant be satisfied that
Mr B has been treated fairly - either in terms of the closure or notice period.
So, Im upholding this complaint and Im awarding Mr B £150 compensation for the upset
and inconvenience caused, which I think has been aggravated by Lloyds not completing
their checks before opening the account.
Whilst I understand Mr Bs frustration and disappointment, as banks have the right to choose
their customers, Im unable to ask Lloyds to reopen his account.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr B £150 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 17 February
2023. Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set
out above.Neither party submitted any further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further arguments or evidence have been produced in response to my provisional 
decision, my view remains the same.
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr B £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman