DRN-2025809
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs P in 1991, in connection with a 
mortgage theyd arranged in 1990. At the time, Halifax was trading as Leeds Permanent 
Building Society. For ease of reference, I will refer to Halifax throughout this final decision.
The policy provided Mr P with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs P the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs P say Halifax didnt tell them anything about the PPI, and they didnt know it had 
been added to their account. They say the cover must have been presented as part of the 
overall mortgage package, and that Halifax didnt give them a proper choice about buying it. 
Mr and Mrs P say if theyd known about the PPI they wouldve claimed on the policy when 
Mr P was out of work. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs P have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs P and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from 
the time of the sale, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im also 
mindful that these events took place nearly thirty years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
But it seems Mr and Mrs P arranged their mortgage in 1990. The PPI policy wasnt taken out 
until 1991. As Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was already in place, I think they wouldve realised 
they didnt need to buy the cover to get the loan they wanted.
Halifaxs records also show that the policy was cancelled a couple of months after it was 
taken out. This also suggests to me that Mr and Mrs P were aware the policy was optional. 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs P have told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware of the PPI, or that they had a choice 
about buying it.
The lender has accepted that it probably advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the policy and it 
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time. I say this because:
- there is nothing to suggest that Mr P wasnt eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- Mr P says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work
due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to his 
occupational benefits and would mean Mr and Mrs P could use those benefits to pay 
for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs P would have had some use for the policy 
despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it
unlikely he and Mrs P needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr and Mrs P before they
agreed to buy it. But they bought the policy knowing they would have to pay
something for it. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the
benefit wasnt enough to cover their monthly mortgage repayments. So I dont think 
better information about the policy cost wouldve changed their decision to buy it.
Its possible the information the lender gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its likely they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr P wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because:Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman