DRN-3626554
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Vanguard Investments UK, Ltd, referred to as Vanguard or the 
business. 
In short, she says Vanguard failed to carry out her pre-selected instructions to invest the 
transferred funds  in the sum of £75,147  into the S&P 500 UCITS ETF fund, referred to 
as the  S&P500 fund. 
What happened
Vanguard didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
It appears that Mrs S requested the transfer from a third-party business but didnt 
choose to invest the funds in the S&P500 fund. 
The option to invest wouldve been displayed during her transfer request journey  
but she didnt request to invest.  
Because there was no request, the proceeds came into the Vanguard account as 
cash, and remained there, until she invested it herself. 
She didnt have any linked deals linked to her transfer, which is what wouldve 
happened if shed made the request.     
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
He cant say that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
The transfer request didnt contain instructions to allocate funds to the S&P500 fund 
therefore the business has done nothing wrong by not doing so. 
The audit log and details of all pending orders that were generated for Mrs Ss 
account show that there was no request for the funds to be invested in the S&P500 
fund. 
Given the procedure for this process, had a request been made an order wouldve 
generated automatically and held as pending on the account  as was the case with 
her other instructions to invest monies transferred from a different business in the 
S&P500 fund.  
On a balance of probabilities, he cant safely say that Mrs S placed the order.  
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she made the following key points: 
As someone with experience of filling out forms, she provided the correct 
instructions, but the business failed to carry them out. Shes not in a position to be 
able to provide further instructions. 
She disagrees with the investigators conclusion regarding the audit log, which isnt a 
customer document. 
To date, Vanguard hasnt provided a copy of her application form and despite being 
requested to do so, has ignored her requests. 
Vanguards failure to provide her application form  and the sales journey  isnt her 
fault and shouldnt be held against her. 
Her request isnt unreasonable, and Vanguard is simply hiding behind logs and 
systems  she has no faith in the way the business is conducting itself. 
If shes made a mistake, shes prepared to accept it. But as Vanguard wont give her 
the documentation she cant verify if she has. In any case, Vanguards system isnt 
without fault. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt prepared to change his mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs S says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence that Mrs S instructed the business to invest in the S&P500 fund. Therefore, I cant 
say that the business has done anything wrong by not doing so in this instance. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mrs S has about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, and its not necessary 
for me to answer every question raised in order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mrs S, and Vanguard, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Despite what Mrs S says about her belief that she provided the relevant instructions, Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence that she has. Therefore, I cant blame Vanguard for not 
allocating monies to the S&P500 fund in this instance, because Im not persuaded thats 
what it was instructed to do.  
I appreciate what Mrs S says about her recollection, and whilst I dont doubt her sincerity, in 
this instance, on balance, Im unable to safely say that her recollections are accurate or 
correct. An honest recollection can be a mistaken recollection, and I think thats what has 
happened here given Mrs S clearly had a plan about what shed intended to do. But Im not 
satisfied she carried out her intentions. 
I note Vanguard confirmed that there was no order on its system regarding the monies in 
question. Based on what the business says, I understand that if Mrs S had pre-selected an 
investment, the system wouldve automatically created an order, as pending, within her 
transactions, and subsequently wouldve placed the order upon successful transfer of the monies. But I note that this didnt happen, and there was no pending order for the S&P500 
fund linked to her transfer request  which suggests that despite what she says and 
believes, its more likely (than not) she didnt submit the instructions as shed intended to. 
In other words, I make clear that whilst I dont doubt what Mrs S intended to do with the 
transferred funds, Im not persuaded that her intentions were borne out in her instructions to 
Vanguard in this case.  
Based on what the business says Im satisfied that this is an automated process, thats only 
engaged upon pre-selection of an investment and doesnt, at this point, involve any human 
intervention. There is no evidence of any issue with the automated system, therefore, any 
suggestion that Mrs S pre-selected the investment but the automated system didnt work on 
this occasion  when it continued to work on other occasions  is not a conclusion that I can 
safely reach in this instance. I note subsequent instructions to allocate transferred monies to 
the S&P500 fund  from a different business  was successfully carried out, which suggests 
that there was nothing wrong with the process itself, and that it was, more likely than not 
working fine.  
I appreciate Mrs S wants to see a copy of her transfer request form, but this isnt something 
that Vanguard can provide. Its inability to do so doesnt of itself mean that the business has 
done anything wrong, with regards to her instructions. 
As I alluded to above, any suggestion that the business made a mistake, and didnt process 
Mrs Ss instructions  that wouldve otherwise engaged an automated process  and is now 
trying to cover its tracks, is untenable. Its arguable that this also explains why theres no 
record in terms of transactions for this particular transfer, presumably because there was no 
order that was pending. Therefore, Vanguard not being able to provide a copy of the transfer 
request form doesnt prevent me from reaching the conclusion that I have. Its also not 
something that Ive held against Mrs S  who I appreciate is keen to see the evidence to 
satisfy herself as to whether or not she made a mistake.
In my opinion, and on balance, if she had selected the S&P500 fund on the transfer request, 
Im satisfied thats what the business wouldve automatically done. But, in the absence of 
any instructions to invest, Im not surprised that once her monies had been transferred, they 
were left in the cash account under her ISA  for her to invest the money herself on a 
subsequent occasion. In the circumstances, I dont think the business did anything wrong by 
not automatically investing the money.   
I note Mrs S says that the details of her instructions were checked over by her husband. 
Despite what she says this isnt of itself evidence that the business made a mistake  its 
possible that her husband missed the relevant detail/wasnt specifically looking for the 
S&P500 fund. Im mindful, based on what the business says, its not being argued that the 
form contained errors, rather that Mrs S omitted instructions to invest in the S&P500. 
Im aware that a separate transfer  from a different business  in which Mrs S requested the 
monies to be allocated to the S&P500 fund, was successfully completed. In my opinion and 
on balance, this shows that despite what she says, the process was working correctly and 
that her instructions on the latter occasion were complete and correct  the business did 
what it was told to. In other words, on that occasion Mrs S pre-selected where she wanted to 
invest her money - in my opinion this wasnt dependent on her husband checking the form.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not Mrs S omitted to 
provide the relevant instructions in this instance, and Vanguard has done nothing wrong by 
merely doing what it was asked to do  which was, despite her intentions, simply to transfer 
the funds from a third-party business to its cash account.  I appreciate Mrs S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Vanguard to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman