DRN-3652687
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited stopped paying a claim made
under his employers group income protection policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. In summary Mr B had an
accident in 2012 which resulted in him being unable to work. A claim under his employers
income protection policy was successful. For the first 24 months benefit is paid if the
member cant work in their normal occupation. After 24 months benefit is paid if the member
is not able to carry out a suited occupation.
In 2016 Aviva ceased Mr Bs benefit  but reinstated it following a decision from this service
in January 2020. As a decision had been made about earlier matters, I was only
considering Avivas termination of the claim in June 2021. Aviva had reviewed the claim and
on the basis of the medical evidence it obtained concluded that Mr B could work in a suited
occupation.
Our investigator thought that to put things right Aviva should reinstate Mr Bs claim. Aviva
appealed. I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2022. I said as follows:
I recognise that my provisional decision will come as very disappointing news to Mr B, as I
am not minded to uphold his complaint. I will explain why that is. I should say if theres
something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I find is the right
outcome. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
In order to review Mr Bs claim Aviva commissioned two medical reports. The first dated 
December 2020 from a Consultant Clinical Neuropsychologist Ill refer to as Dr L. Dr L found 
that further recovery was unlikely and that apart from his visual problem, the main persisting 
neuropsychological deficit was one of working memory. He found that it was likely Mr Bs 
working memory would cause difficulty in any occupation involving sustained attention, 
switching of attention or multi-tasking, but concluded that Mr B would probably be capable of 
an alternative role. Although Mr B doesnt agree, Aviva wasnt presented with any contrary 
medical opinion. So I find it was reasonable of Aviva to accept Dr Ls findings.
Dr L suggested a vocational assessment, with a possible vocational rehabilitation
programme to look at Mr Bs various residual strengths as well as weaknesses from a
practical point of view. Accordingly Aviva asked a Consultant in Occupational Medicine, Dr
B, to complete a vocational assessment. I find that was necessary in the light of Dr Ls
report.
Dr B reported that Mr B was fit to work on a regular basis. She noted that he had made an
excellent recovery overall and suggested four alternative occupations for which she believed
Mr B was suited. She gave full reasons for her suggestions. As both reports have been seen
by the parties it serves no purpose for me to repeat the contents in detail here. But having
paid careful regard to the reports, and in the absence of any medical report to the contrary,
Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Aviva to base its review of Mr Bs claim on Dr Bs
report.
However Mr B doesnt believe he has the skills required to work in any of the suited
occupations Dr B identified. He feels that Aviva has mis-interpreted its policy wording. In
particular he felt that the suggestion that he was suited for an unskilled role was unfair and
unreasonable given his pre-disability role for which he had qualifications. I dont agree.
Benefit is payable under the policy if, after 24 months, the member is unable to perform the
duties of their normal occupation or any other occupation for which they are suited by reason
of education, training or experience. Its clear that Mr B has transferrable skills, including
working with his hands, customer service, the ability to work well with others. Dr B took these
and other skills into consideration in her report. She didnt recommend only unskilled roles. I
find that was fair.
Further Dr B didnt disregard the medical evidence regarding the need for Mr B to be
supervised  the roles she found would be suited all involved supervision. I note that Mr B
has now ceased to work in his voluntary role as he says he was finding it too stressful.
However I dont find this means Dr B was wrong to take into consideration the skills that he
gained there over the years, in addition to his other experience and training.
In the circumstances I dont find it was unfair of Aviva to place the weight it did on the
medical reports Ive referred to. I note that it paid a further three months of benefit rather
than terminating the claim immediately. I find that was reasonable.
Finally, I see that Mr B feels that he was mis-led by Aviva in 2013. It advised that the policy
did allow working in a voluntary capacity and Aviva recognised the benefits in doing so. Its
not clear what was discussed in the conversation that preceded the 2013 letter. But the letter
ends I therefore wish you well with your voluntary work and should your situation change in
any way i.e. if they should offer you paid employment, please do not hesitate to contact us
as this may affect the benefit that you receive. This suggests that the letter was in reply to a
direct question about whether the payment Mr B was then receiving would be affected. It
wasnt, so in the circumstances I dont find that the letter was misleading.
Accordingly I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I explained that I would look at any 
further comments and evidence received, but unless that information changed my mind my 
final decision would be along the lines of my provisional decision.
Aviva didnt make any further comments. Mrs B did on behalf of Mr B, but for simplicity I 
shall continue to refer to representations as being made by Mr B.
In summary he said:
He had over 15 years of post education, pre-accident training and experience in his 
industry. He compared this with the experience gained as a volunteer - 1-2 short 
days a week over four years.  He felt that the roles suggested werent suitable for 
him.
He said that all the roles suggested were unskilled jobs with no qualifications needed, 
but previously he had been highly trained and highly paid. So he didnt feel he was 
suited to the suggested roles.
He would be prevented from carrying out the suggested roles because of the long 
lasting effects of his brain injury.Previously this service has found that Aviva and other financial institutions have 
acted contrary to their policy terms and conditions. He cited examples that he felt 
they supported his argument regarding suitable occupations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr B for his further submissions which I have considered with care. But having 
done so Im not persuaded to change my provisional findings. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Mr B cant carry out his previous role or his own occupation but the 
medical evidence commissioned by Aviva does show that he is able to perform a suited role. 
I accept and understand that the suggested roles are less well paid than his own occupation. 
Also they require less skill, although I dont accept they are unskilled.
However Aviva is not obliged to suggest roles that match Mr Bs previous role in terms of 
salary and skills, only to find roles that he is suited to by reason of education, training or 
experience. Any one of these factors could be enough to find Mr B suited to a particular role. 
Mr Bs training hasnt been disregarded  the evidence shows that this gave him transferable 
skills which have been taken into account. 
Importantly though, the medical reports do recognise that Mr B still has limitations caused by 
his accident. As noted in my provisional decision Dr L, a Consultant Clinical 
Neuropsychologist, found that Mr Bs main persisting neuropsychological deficit was one of 
working memory. Mr B has referred to this finding. However Dr L didnt find that this would 
prevent him from working in a suited role but suggested a vocational assessment. 
Dr B, a specialist in occupational medicine, provided that assessment. Its clear that Mr B 
doesnt accept the recommendations Dr B has made. He feels the suggested roles require 
skills that he has been shown to have difficulty with. But Dr B is a highly qualified 
professional in this field and was fully aware of Mr Bs ongoing medical issues. Nevertheless 
she was satisfied that Mr B would be able to perform several roles, one of which Mr B has 
been doing on a part time voluntary basis for some years. It follows that he has experience 
in this role. 
My provisional finding was that it was reasonable of Aviva to take that report into account 
when arriving at its claims decision. I noted that Mr B had not provided any medical evidence 
to contradict the findings in Dr Bs report. Im not persuaded by the comments that Mr B now 
makes to change that finding.
Mr B has said this service has found on occasion that insurers, including Aviva, have not 
acted fairly in respect of income protection claims. But it would be fair to point out that there 
are equally many, if not more, occasions where we have found insurers have acted fairly. 
Ultimately though each case turns on its own unique facts and so it doesnt follow that if one 
reported case was upheld, this one should be too.
As I said in my provisional decision, I am only considering Avivas termination of Mr Bs claim 
in June 2021, as there has already been a decision on his previous complaint. But for clarity 
I would point out that the expert medical reports before me have been commissioned since 
that decision. Dr B does identify occupations for Mr B and clearly explains why they are 
suited. Given her expertise and knowledge of the particular area in which Mr B has been 
volunteering, together with her understanding of Mr Bs medical history, I am satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Aviva to rely on that evidence to show that Mr B was able to perform a suited occupation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman