DRN-3022824
The complaint
Mrs R complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided Mrs R with a loan as follows:
Date loan 
takenDate repaid Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment
October 
2018May 2019 24 £3,000 £283.84
Mrs R complained to Everyday Loans that the loan was unaffordable and should not have 
been approved. Everyday Loans said it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
which showed that the loan was affordable for her and didnt uphold her complaint. So Mrs R 
brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld and he set out 
the steps Everyday Loans should take to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that the purpose of the 
loan was to help repair the damage done by the use of payday loans and using its loan for 
debt consolidation would mean a significant reduction in Mrs Rs monthly financial 
commitments. Everyday Loans also said that Mrs Rs living arrangements meant that her 
outgoings were minimal and that paying credit costs of more than 25% of income as a 
reason for upholding a complaint no longer applied to a loan taken in October 2018. 
Everyday Loans said that her bank statements from September and October 2018 showed 
that Mrs R managed her finances very well. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mrs Rs complaint.
Everyday Loans asked Mrs R about her income and checked Mrs Rs payslip. It asked her 
about her housing costs and obtained a credit report and reviewed bank statements from 
Mrs R and used statistical information to help build a detailed picture of Mrs Rs financial 
situation. 
From what Ive seen, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out before it agreed to 
lend to Mrs R were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. So I've thought 
carefully about whether the lending decision made by Everyday Loans was fair.
Like the adjudicator, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Mrs R based on the information it had gathered.
Everyday Loans recorded a figure of around £1,344 for Mrs Rs monthly earnings. Keeping 
in mind that Mrs R told Everyday Loans she intended to use its loan to pay all of her payday 
loans, using around £2,712 of the money to do this and that the rest would go towards 
paying her credit card debt, Everyday Loans said this meant Mrs R should still have had 
around £148 left over after paying its loan. So, it felt the loan was affordable for her.But, Everyday Loans was aware that Mrs R would still be paying £186 for an ongoing hire 
purchase agreement which was due to run for the expected lifetime of this loan - alongside 
having to make the monthly repayments on this loan. These two payments alone accounted 
for more than a third of Mrs Rs take home pay. 
As well as this, she still needed to make the monthly repayments on her credit cards. And 
whilst her credit cards allowed flexible repayment terms, in reality, Mrs R needed to pay at 
least 5% of the outstanding balance in order to make any meaningful impact on clearing this 
debt within a reasonably foreseeable period. Given the amount of her credit card debt, Mrs R 
faced the likelihood that she would be paying her credit cards whilst she was paying the loan 
Everyday Loans provided. And looking at the information Everyday Loans recorded, it 
seemed that Mrs R would also have to pay each month for other non-consolidated 
borrowing. 
I think our adjudicator was right to point out that all this would amount to such a significant 
proportion of Mrs Rs monthly income that Everyday Loans ought to have realised it was 
unlikely that Mrs R would be able to sustainably repay this loan over the expected two year 
term. And, in these circumstances, Everyday Loans should reasonably have concluded that 
it was not fair to lend to Mrs R.
Ive thought carefully about everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
adjudicators view. But this doesnt affect my overall view. I say this because, looking at its 
credit checks and the bank statements that Mrs R provided to Everyday Loans, it could see 
that Mrs R didnt appear to have the amount of disposable income its checks suggested she 
did. It could see that Mrs R had very recently taken out four other expensive loans (£900 in 
total) from other providers of high cost credit  which, even so, only left her with a £143 
credit balance in her bank account. And Everyday Loans knew from its credit checks that 
Mrs R was paying at least eight payday lenders. 
I think it should have been clear from the information it had gathered that Mrs R wasnt 
managing to repay her debt and she appeared to be relying on new credit more 
recently obtained in order to manage her finances. 
I think Everyday Loans ought to have realised that Mrs Rs loan application reflected 
her reliance on this sort of expensive credit and it was unlikely that Mrs R could repay 
further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse consequences. 
I dont think that anything Mrs R said was enough to reassure Everyday Loans that, 
despite the information it had in front of it, Everyday Loans saw enough to reasonably 
be satisfied that Mrs R was going to be able to make the loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. The fact alone that this expensive loan was taken out to repay other 
expensive credit doesnt mean it was fairly provided. Everyday Loans saw from its 
credit checks that Mrs Rs total loan balance outstanding was £7,448 and her revolving 
credit balance alone amounted to £2,377. I think the scale of her debts, compared to 
the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless. 
So, I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely say this loan wouldve benefitted 
Mrs Rs overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable 
improvement in her financial situation. 
I dont agree with Everyday Loans conclusion that the fact Mrs R repaid the loan early 
means that she was able to do so in a way that was sustainably affordable for her. For all the 
reasons above, I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mrs R and more likely to potentially increase her 
indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am upholding Mrs Rs complaint that she should not have been given this loan.
Id like to assure Everyday Loans that I've thought carefully about everything, including the 
comments it made in response to our adjudicators view. In coming to my decision, if 
I havent commented on everything that Everyday Loans has mentioned thats because 
I have concentrated on the main points that affect the outcome. I appreciate that Everyday 
Loans takes a different view to me. I hope that settings things out as Ive done explains why 
Ive come to a different conclusion.  
I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any award, 
over and above the proposed redress which Ive set out below. 
But as Mrs R has been further indebted by a loan that she shouldnt have been provided 
with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
So, I think Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs R to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra on a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
Everyday Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mrs R received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mrs R made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mrs R having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Rs credit file regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mrs R.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman