DRN-3147094
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim to a
scam.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 20 October 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was not minded to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
Mr A was looking to buy a laptop. Hes explained that hed been searching on auction
websites, online classified advertisements and on a social media marketplace.
On 18 November 2020, Mr A saw a used Apple MacBook Pro 2017 laptop computer
advertised for sale by a private seller on a social media marketplace. The sellers description
said it had been used for a year but he had no use for it due to an upgrade. Mr A recalls that
originally the seller had advertised it at £500 but he was straight away able to negotiate a
deal to buy it for £400.
Mr A explains that he has purchased other items from the marketplace successfully in the
past and usually meets the seller in person to inspect the goods but could not do so this time
because of Covid-19 restrictions. Mr A told us that the seller sent him pictures of the laptop
through direct messaging instead. Mr A recalls that he checked the sellers Facebook and
Twitter profiles at the time and noticed the profile was located in a place around 400 miles
away from where the seller had said he was.
Mr A decided to go ahead and buy the laptop and made a faster payment of £400 to the
account details hed been given by the seller. The seller told him hed post it after hed
finished work. Later that day, Mr A tried to message the seller but the account had been
deactivated. Mr A suspected something was not right and contacted the bank for help.
As Monzo was also the receiving bank, it acted quickly to see whether it could recover any
funds. But the money Mr A had sent no longer remained. Monzo went on to consider
whether it should refund Mr A for his loss. It turned down his claim for a refund and said it
was not responsible. When Mr A complained, Monzo said it had done all it could to help him.
It said Mr A had not taken enough reasonable steps to ensure he trusted the person he was
sending money to.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with the banks decision.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She
noted that Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it.
This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of 
authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Our Investigator didnt 
think any of those circumstances applied here.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded Monzo had provided an effective warning when Mr A was
making the payment. She did not think Monzo had been able to establish that Mr A did not
have a reasonable basis for believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to
pay, the payment was for genuine goods and/or that the person he was transacting with was
legitimate. She thought Monzo should have fully reimbursed Mr As loss and recommended
that it settled the complaint by refunding the £400, together with interest on the sum at the
simple rate of 8% a year from the date it declined his claim to the date of settlement.
Monzo disagreed. It said Mr A didnt make the purchase on a verified selling platform and
looking at the sellers Facebook and Twitter accounts was not enough to confirm the
legitimacy of the sale. It thought Mr A did not do enough to check who he was paying and for
what. It pointed out that Mr A had not researched the seller or the item.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
When I started to review the complaint, I had some further questions for Mr A. When he
spoke to our Investigator, he said the seller had given him further screenshots of the laptop
whilst they were talking. I asked Mr A if he still had those screenshots and whether he would
be able to provide them to us.
Mr A had previously told us hed checked the sellers Twitter and Facebook profile and found
out from those enquiries that the profile belonged to someone based in Scotland. But Mr A
thought the seller was based in Essex. I asked Mr A if he had spoken to the seller on the
phone at any point as information from the banks file suggested Mr A had given the seller
his mobile number. I asked Mr A what hed thought about the information hed found out and
whether he did any other checks on the seller as a result of it. I asked Mr A if the seller had
any other items for sale and whether there was anything to indicate that they were an
established member of the selling community on the marketplace, such as other items for
sale or previous listings.
I also asked Mr A about the specification of the laptop. The information on file suggested it
was a MacBook Pro 13 inch from 2017 but gave no further information about the key
components such as its processor or memory.
On 3 August 2021, Mr A confirmed to us that he had received my questions and that he
intended to reply as soon as possible.
We spoke to Mr A on 14 September 2021 to follow up his response. He said he had already
provided it to us and agreed to send the email to us again. Mr A then explained that he could
not find the response in his outbox so he would need to write it again.
To date, no further information has been received from Mr A so I am progressing the
complaint with the details that I currently have.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer
even though they authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo
should have reimbursed Mr A in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr A from the possibility of
financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payment. He thought he would
receive a laptop in exchange for his money and the seller did not keep to their side of that
bargain. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr A to receive a refund of the money
under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr A too.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances.
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or
services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse
Mr A under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the circumstances of this
this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the
legitimacy of the transaction Mr A was making are enough to support its position that he
failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment he made.
I dont think he had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine goods and
the person he transacted with was legitimate. As this is a different outcome to the one our
Investigator reached, I will explain why.Mr A has been able to provide some information about the sale, but hes not given us a copy
of the original listing or further details of his contact with the seller. It is unclear whether Mr A
still has this information now. But this means Ive not been able to see exactly how the laptop
was described or search for the sellers reviews and ratings. Whilst I cant be sure of exactly
how the seller presented themselves and the laptop at the time, from the evidence that is
currently available for me to consider, I think Mr A should have had done more than he did to
question the deal and to satisfy himself that it was legitimate before making the payment.
What Mr A wanted to buy was a desirable item from a prestige electronics brand. Although
Mr A had used the marketplace successfully before, he had not used this specific seller
before. Mr A had also identified information that highlighted a potential geographical
discrepancy. Whilst this may have been entirely innocent and the seller could have had a
genuine reason for being based elsewhere at that time, Im not persuaded from what I know
currently that Mr A made sufficient enquiries to satisfy himself that there was nothing
untoward about the situation.
Mr A told us that hed been looking across various different auction and resale websites to
find a laptop. I accept that sales of second-hand items on marketplaces can have a degree
of negotiation around the price and its not unusual for interested buyers to make offers to
secure a deal. But it is unclear if the price agreed for the laptop was in keeping with how
much the device, even second-hand, typically cost at that time. Mr A has not provided any
details of the technical specification of the laptop. The type of processor, amount of RAM
and size of the hard drive all have a bearing on the price. I have looked for MacBook Pro 13
inch laptops from 2017 on popular resale websites such as the ones Mr A has mentioned
along with refurbished goods websites and retail chains that specialise in the sale of second
hand electronic goods. Even at todays prices, almost a year after Mr A made the payment
and with the launch of an updated Apple laptop imminent, the price commanded for the 2017
model still holds well and is significantly more than what Mr A paid. I think Mr A should have
questioned in his own mind why the seller was prepared to let such a valuable item go for
such a low amount and why they were so readily agreeable to agree to the reduced price.
I think Mr A should have weighed it all up and recognised there was a considerable degree
of risk associated with the purchase.
I think there were red flags present from the information Mr A had and he placed his trust in
this seller without any reasonable basis for doing so. Im not currently persuaded that Mr A
took enough care with the purchase to be able to say that he had a reasonable basis for
believing that he was buying genuine goods from a legitimate seller. From what has been
said and provided so far, I think he fell below the level of care expected of him.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr A?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr A from financial harm. The CRM
Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should
provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the assessment of
whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
I am also mindful that when Mr A made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).In this case, Mr A was making an unremarkable payment. Looking at his statements and the
type of payments he usually makes, I dont think the amount of this payment or the fact it
was going to a new payee would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been
concerned that Mr A might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that he
made it. So I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk in the payment
journey or that it needed to provide Mr A with an effective warning.
Once it was made aware of the scam, Monzo acted quickly to try to cover the funds Mr A
had sent, but the funds had already been utilised. This is not surprising, as fraudsters
typically act very fast to move funds before the victim realises what has happened.
Overall
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr A and I can understand why he wants to do all
that he can to try and recover the money hes lost. He sent his money in good faith and did
not receive anything in return for it. But I cant fairly hold Monzo responsible for the actions of
a fraudster. I can only look at the banks position on Mr As fraud claim and its assessment
under the CRM Code. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied the bank has been
able to establish it can choose not to refund Mr A under the CRM Code. Im also satisfied the
bank processed Mr As payment correctly and it did all it could to help him once it knew what
had happened.
Taking everything into account, I think Monzos actions in this particular case were
appropriate and proportionate to a payment of £400. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr A,
but from what Ive seen so far, I cant fairly say Monzo should have done more or that it
should refund the money thats been lost.
Responses to my provisional decision 
In my provisional decision I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider.
Monzo acknowledged that it had received my provisional decision but had nothing further to 
add.
Mr A did not respond. As the deadline I gave for responses has now passed, I am now going 
to reconsider the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusion reached in my provisional decision, which is summarised above 
and forms part of this final decision. It sets out my reasons in full. 
So, without any further evidence or arguments, my final decision remains that this complaint 
cannot reasonably be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman