DRN-3039068
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S have complained about Great Lakes Insurance SE. They are not happy 
that it turned down a claim under their wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Miss S took out wedding insurance in March 2019 for their wedding which was 
due to take place in October 2020. And when they were told that the venue they had booked 
for their wedding had been sold they followed the venues advice and cancelled their 
booking gaining a refund of their deposit. This was because the venue explained that it 
wasnt taking any bookings after September 2020 and couldnt confirm what the new owners 
would do.
So, Mr M and Miss S cancelled the venue and rebooked elsewhere. They made a claim 
through their Great Lakes policy as they incurred additional costs because of the 
cancellation. 
But Great Lakes wouldnt pay the claim. This was because the particular circumstances 
surrounding the claim werent covered under the policy. And when Mr M and Miss S 
complained to Great Lakes about this it maintained its position although it paid a small 
amount of compensation in acknowledgement of the poor service it provided. So, Mr M and 
Miss S asked this service to consider their complaint.
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. Although she 
sympathised with the position they found themselves in she didnt think Great Lakes had 
acted unreasonably when it turned down the claim. She explained the policy clearly outlined 
the circumstances that were covered and that the sale of the venue to a third party wasnt 
one of these. 
As Mr M and Miss S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M and Miss S, but Ill explain why.
I appreciate having to cancel and move wedding venue would have been extremely 
distressing for Mr M and Miss S and I know this will have been a difficult time for them. But 
the question I need to consider is whether Great Lakes did anything wrong in turning down 
the claim they made. And I think its worth pointing out that the onus is on Mr M and Miss S 
to establish, on balance, that theyve suffered a loss covered by their policy.
I can understand Mr M and Miss S position, as they believed their policy would cover any 
increased costs incurred when they chose to cancel their original wedding venue. And Ive 
seen the correspondence surrounding this and I can understand why they chose to be pro-
active and cancel their original wedding venue.
However, as Mr M and Miss S are aware insurance products dont cover every eventuality 
and unfortunately the scenario they faced and the choices they made arent covered under 
the policy. The wedding venue was sold, and it told Mr M and Miss S it wasnt able to 
confirm bookings past 30 September 2020. And that there wasnt any guarantee the new 
owners would continue as a wedding venue (although I understand they did) or that it would 
honour any bookings after that point in time. As Mr M and Miss S wedding wasnt due to 
take place until a few weeks after this they chose to cancel the venue which meant they 
faced increased booking costs elsewhere.
Mr M and Miss S policy provides cover in relation to certain events that have caused the 
curtailment of the wedding. In this instance they chose to cancel the wedding as the venue 
provider couldnt guarantee their booking at that point in time. But the policy terms and 
conditions dont cover this and as this isnt an insured event Great Lakes turned down their 
claim. 
I know this is disappointing and that, at the time, they believed any increased costs would be 
covered. But that isnt how the policy works and I cant ask Great Lakes to step outside the 
policy terms and conditions. I say this as Im satisfied this isnt an insured event under the 
policy and the policy documentation is clear. I know it doesnt specify the exact 
circumstances that Mr M and Miss S faced, but I wouldnt expect an insurer to outline every 
possible eventuality when cover isnt provided. 
The policy clearly outlines what is covered and Mr M and Miss S have referred to certain 
events under the policy that would be covered, such as if the company went into liquidation 
or the venue cancelled the wedding on the day. But I have to consider what actually 
happened and those circumstances, unfortunately for Mr M and Miss S, dont apply. The 
venue didnt cancel the wedding and the company didnt go into liquidation. I know Mr M and 
Miss S feel it may have gone into liquidation if it hadnt sold the venue and that is possible, 
but it didnt. And I cant be sure, from the information before me that the new owners 
wouldnt have honoured the commitment if Mr M and Miss S hadnt chosen to cancel the 
policy. I understand that the venue continued to offer weddings and has continued in a 
similar vein as before so I think its quite likely that the new owners would have honoured the 
commitment.
Ultimately, the owners of the venue sold the business to a third party which isnt covered 
under the policy. And although I can understand why Mr M and Miss S chose to be proactive 
and take the steps they did in cancelling the venue and taking their business elsewhere this 
isnt covered under the policy. Ive seen that the wedding venue suggested they may be 
covered under their insurance policy during their correspondence with Mr M and Miss S, but 
I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for this or the advice provided by the original wedding 
venue. And if they had considered their policy documentation or spoken to their insurer 
around the time they were thinking of cancelling the policy then Great Lakes would have 
clarified that the claim wouldnt be covered at that point in time.
Turning to the customer service aspect of Mr M and Miss S complaint. I can see that Great 
Lakes offered a small amount of compensation (£200) in acknowledgement of its delays and 
some poor service which seems fair in the circumstances. 
Given all of this, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr M and Miss S, I dont think Great 
Lakes have acted unreasonably in turning down the claim, especially as it was possible that 
the wedding could have gone ahead at their chosen venue.My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman