DRN-2792672
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about a lifetime mortgage he and the late Mrs J took out with Aviva 
Equity Release UK Limited. He is unhappy about the amount required to redeem the 
mortgage, as it is much higher than he understood it would be. In addition, Mr J said he 
wasnt present in the 2001 meeting during which the mortgage was recommended  he had 
been elsewhere in the property and was simply asked to sign the forms after Mrs J agreed 
the arrangements. 
It has been stated that Mrs J was unsophisticated, trusting and wouldnt have understood the 
mortgage that was sold, and that would have been obvious to the adviser. Mr J also 
questioned the existence of the third advance as he only remembers two; an initial advance 
of £8,000 and a second of £5,000. 
Mr J is represented in his complaint, but for ease, I will refer to all comments and 
explanations as being his.
What happened
In 2001, following receiving a leaflet from Aviva, Mr and Mrs J decided to contact it to 
enquire about releasing some equity from their home. The circumstances detailed in Avivas 
documentation from the time show that they were both retired and living on a modest 
pension income, had no debts and had a reasonably sized emergency fund. They were left 
with around £120 per month disposable income after the basics were paid for. They wanted 
to build a garage and do some home improvements, which they estimated would cost 
around £6,000. The remainder of the money they wanted released was so they had some 
disposable funds to maintain their lifestyle in retirement. As such, they asked to take the 
maximum amount available. Initially they applied for just over £16,000, but following the 
house being valued at less than theyd thought it was worth, the amount that could be 
borrowed was reduced to just over £13,000. 
When the financial adviser was explaining his recommendations, it was stated that 
Mr and Mrs J were aware the mortgage didnt require any payments to be made, but it might 
erode the potential inheritance that their beneficiaries would receive. It was also documented 
that the optional guarantee (that a portion of the property value would be available after the 
sale of the property) was offered and declined as Mr and Mrs J didnt want to use £700 of 
the advance monies for that purpose.  It was also detailed that alternatives ways for Mr and 
Mrs J to source the money were discussed. They declined any form of traditional borrowing 
as they didnt want the financial commitment that would go with it and they didnt want to 
downsize.
The key facts documents from before the application and that produced after the amount 
being borrowed reduced showed how much the mortgage would be at various points in time. 
The document relating to the mortgage of £13,800 Mr and Mrs J took, showed that at five 
years the amount owed would be over £20,000 and by 20 years, it would to be over £67,000. 
Following Aviva accepting Mr and Mrs Js application, it asked them to meet with a solicitor 
of their choice. This was to enable the solicitor to go over the details of the mortgage and 
ensure they understood the product they were taking out. This was done on 9 July 2001 and 
a certificate was sent to Aviva by the solicitor confirming Mr and Mrs J understood the 
mortgage and its consequences. 
In 2003 Mrs J contacted Aviva, as required by the terms and conditions, as she and Mr J 
were planning to alter the property  by installing a new central heating system. She also 
confirmed that Mr J would be building a garage in the garden. Aviva consented to the 
alterations to the property. Once the installation had been done, Mrs J also provided a copy 
of the invoice for Avivas records. 
In 2006 Mrs J again contacted Aviva and arranged to borrow further money against the 
property as it had increased in value. This time slightly under £8,000 was borrowed, 
although Mrs J originally wanted to borrow £13,000. She told Aviva that they wanted to 
replace their car (for around £5,000) and use the rest for holidays. 
The Aviva adviser wrote to Mr and Mrs J after the discussions with Mrs J about borrowing 
more money. It was documented that Youre prepared to take the risk of eroding the equity 
within your property and consequently reducing the inheritance you leave to your heirs and 
beneficiaries. I have discussed with you and explained the factors that can affect the erosion 
of equity such as the amount that you need to borrow, how long the lifetime mortgage lasts; 
future changes in house prices and the level of interest charged for your plan. 
In relation to the guarantee option, to ensure the estate received something after the 
mortgage was paid off, it was detailed Mrs J had said Our family want to see us alright. We 
are not concerned about leaving a guaranteed inheritance, we would rather take what we 
need now.  The adviser also explained Interest is charged at a fixed rate and is calculated 
on the total amount borrowed and on the interest already added. This means the amount 
you owe quickly builds up. It was also detailed that the adviser discussed alternative ways of 
raising the money Mr and Mrs J wanted, but there werent any viable options as they didnt 
want to move home and downsize, and they didnt have the means to borrow in a different 
form. 
Again, a key facts document was provided for the further advance amount which detailed 
how much the new borrowing would amount to at various times. The longer the mortgage 
went on, the higher the amount owed would be.
In 2007 Mrs J contacted Aviva again and explained that they were considering moving. She 
said a developer had proposed buying their home and land. They would retain ownership of 
a portion of the land and the developer would build a bungalow for them, which would be 
worth as much as their existing home. The house and remainder of the land would become 
the property of the developer. Mrs J asked if the mortgage could be transferred to the new 
property if they went ahead with the plan. Aviva provided Mrs J with information about 
transferring the mortgage to a different property. There was further correspondence about 
this concept throughout 2007 and into 2008, but the plan didnt come to fruition.
Mrs J contacted Aviva again in 2010 to see if they could borrow more funds. It told her how 
much more she could borrow based on the estimate of the property value shed given. She 
said she would discuss it with Mr J.
In 2011 Mrs J moved the matter of borrowing more money forward. Around £5,500 more 
was borrowed. It was detailed that Mr and Mrs J didnt think their car would make it through 
its MOT and so they thought they would need to replace it. In addition, they wanted money 
for some expensive dental work Mr J needed, a new fridge and a holiday. Again, a key facts 
document showing how the new borrowing would build up over time was sent to 
Mr and Mrs J.Mrs J died in 2014 and some years later Mr J asked his representative for some assistance 
with his paperwork. When it was realised what the total owed on the mortgage was, a 
complaint was raised. 
Aviva responded to Mr Js complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It confirmed the details of the 
three advances that had been made and the contact it had with Mr and Mrs J. Aviva was 
satisfied Mr and Mrs J had been provided with enough information to make an informed 
decision and so it wasnt persuaded the mortgage had been mis-sold. In addition, before the 
first advance was made, theyd had to take independent advice from a solicitor to ensure 
they understood the mortgage terms and the effects it would have on their estate and any 
state benefits they might receive.
Mr J didnt accept Avivas response and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He was satisfied that all of the documentation from the times of the advances showed the 
implications of taking out the equity release plan and he considered it was clear and 
understandable. He was also satisfied that the release of equity from Mr and Mrs Js home 
was the only way they could have achieved their desired objectives. As for Mrs J making all 
the arrangements, as Mr J had said he was happy for her to act on his behalf, he couldnt 
find Aviva did anything wrong if the advances were only discussed in detail with Mrs J. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators conclusions. It was reiterated that no matter what was 
written down, he and Mrs J wouldnt have understood it and would have concluded that it 
was their only option to obtain the money they wanted. He believes that he and Mrs J should 
have been told to take out a loan or a traditional mortgage which could be paid back. Mr J 
said that in his mind the adviser should have refused to provide advice or allow the 
application without Mr J being present. It was suggested that the sale of the mortgage was 
immoral and it is clear that the commission for the sale of the product was more important to 
the adviser than conceding that it was not right for them to proceed. Mr J asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr J has said about him not being present during the meeting when the 
mortgage was initially sold, and that the later telephone further advances were again made 
by Mrs J. This may well be the case, but that was not necessarily inappropriate. It is not 
unusual for one partner to take the lead on financial matters and when they do so with the 
others consent, they are deemed to be representing both themselves and the other partner. 
This appears to the situation with Mr and Mrs J at the times of the mortgage arrangements 
and Mr J signed all of the documentation each time, clearly showing he was happy to accept 
the arrangements Mrs J had made. I cant find Aviva at fault for accepting this arrangement 
between Mr and Mrs J.
It has been suggested that Mrs J wouldnt have been capable of understanding the 
mortgage because she was country folk, which I take to mean she was not financially 
sophisticated. Lifetime mortgages are more complicated than a traditional mortgage and so it 
is now a regulatory requirement for advice to be given before they are allowed to be sold. 
Whilst the mortgage was initially sold in 2001 before those requirements were in place, the 
advice received from Aviva would have fulfilled that requirement. In addition, at that time, in 
order to ensure that the applicants understood the mortgage they were being sold and its implications for the future, Aviva required Mr and Mrs J to speak to a solicitor about the 
mortgage. The solicitor confirmed that they understood the mortgage and its implications.
In addition, it would appear Mrs J did understand the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
quite thoroughly. I say this as she was aware before they made any changes to the property, 
they needed to inform Aviva and gain its consent. Thats what she did in 2003 and not 
something that we often see borrowers being aware of. I am aware that Mr J wont agree 
with this, but I think it is clear that Mrs J (in her capacity as an individual and Mr Js 
representative) understood the mortgage at the time it was sold in 2001. 
I also consider the documentation would have highlighted that the interest on the amount 
borrowed would roll up on the mortgage and that this could match the value of the house at 
the time of the borrowing. An option to protect the equity in the property for the benefit of 
their estate was given, but it was declined because Mr and Mrs J didnt want to pay for that 
benefit. 
Having considered the documentation from the later further advances, I am also satisfied 
that the evidence indicates they were clearly explained. I consider Mrs J, on her own and 
Mr Js behalf knew what she was arranging and its potential consequences on the amount 
that would be left to their beneficiaries.
Overall, while I know Mr J wont agree, I dont think the mortgage and further advances were 
mis-sold or that Aviva acted inappropriately by predominantly dealing with Mrs J during the 
sales processes.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 
27 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman