DRN-3786009
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided to him by Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (Virgin).
What happened
On 2 April 2021 Mr M had issues logging into his account both online and through his 
banking app. He said it took him several hours to be able to do so and was very 
inconvenient. He said he tried to call Virgin to discuss this, but the wait times were too long, 
and he was unable to get through to anyone. 
On 26 June 2021 Mr M said Virgin declined a transaction hed tried to make using his debit 
card, he said he was embarrassed by this. He also said that Virgin never contacted him to 
discuss the transaction as it should have done. 
On two separate dates, one in May 2021 and the other in September 2021, Mr M said the 
balance on his account was displayed incorrectly in the mobile app. 
Mr M complained to Virgin about all of the above points they responded to his complaint 
points, in summary they awarded him £50 for any distress caused, and explained:
They had experienced some technical issues over the bank holiday weekend and 
accepted that Mr M may have faced difficulties being able to log in to his accounts, 
but they could see he did manage to get access and make transactions.
The payment on 26 June was automatically stopped by its fraud detection system so 
it could be verified with Mr M to make sure it was a legitimate transaction. But due to 
an error they had failed to contact him to make the verification. So, they hadnt 
followed the process as they should have done.
Although they were unable to see the balance had been showing incorrectly, they 
accepted Mr Ms testimony. They apologised for this but were unable to give an 
explanation of what had happened to cause the error.
Mr M remained unhappy with their response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He recognised there had been 
some inconvenience to Mr M but thought the £50 Virgin had paid to him was fair in the 
circumstances and didnt think they needed to do more. Mr M disagreed and so the matter 
was passed to an Ombudsman to decide.
The ombudsman attempted to mediate between Mr M and Virgin. She initially thought the 
issue about accessing the online banking had already been considered under a different 
complaint reference and so we wouldnt be able to consider it. She acknowledged that Virgin 
had already paid Mr M £50 for that particular issue and asked them if they wanted to 
increase their offer to compensate for the other issues too. Virgin increased their offer by 
£50 to bring the total to £100. Mr M accepted the offer but queried why he hadnt been told 
earlier that we couldnt look at the problems with accessing his accounts online. 
The Ombudsman looked into this and realised that she had been mistaken when she said it 
had already been considered separately to this complaint. She apologised for this and gave 
her informal opinion to Mr M that she thought the £100 Virgin had now agreed to pay was 
fair. Mr M wasnt happy, and the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me.
Having done so I wont be asking Virgin to increase its offer of compensation, Ill explain 
why. Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, 
its not because I havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
Access online and through the app 
Mr M has told us that he had issues gaining access to his account on 2 April 2021. Virgin 
have provided evidence showing that Mr M was able to access his accounts on the day and 
complete transactions. This was a time when Virgin have confirmed there were known 
technical issues at the time, so I dont doubt that Mr M experienced difficulties getting 
access, and this would have been frustrating. I also accept that this may have taken more 
time than it ordinarily would have, and this would have caused Mr M some inconvenience. 
Declined transaction
Virgin have accepted they didnt follow their process here and that through human error Mr 
M wasnt contacted to verify the declined payment as he should have been. They have 
apologised for this.
Mr M says the declining of the transaction caused him embarrassment. I accept any 
payment being stopped can do this, but fraud detection methods are there for the protection 
of customers and to stop payments that arent genuine from being paid. So, I think as the 
transaction was identified as potentially being fraudulent, it was ok for Virgin to stop the 
payment. Virgin has accepted they should have called Mr M regarding the payment but even 
if they had I dont think this would have prevented his embarrassment as the payment had 
already been stopped prior to the point the phone call would have been made.
Displaying the incorrect balance
Virgin havent been able to see the errors Mr M claims were showing on his balance on the 
two dates in May and September 2021. As such they havent been able to give any reasons 
for them, but they have accepted Mr Ms word that this occurred. The errors appear to have 
rectified themselves relatively quickly and Mr M wasnt denied the use of any funds that were 
his, on those dates. From what Mr M has told us, he was aware of what the balance should 
have been on those occasions. So, while I accept it may have been annoying for his balance 
to have been displayed incorrectly, for the short period of time he says it was. I cant see that 
there was any detriment caused to him as a result of the incorrect balance showing.Virgin has agreed to pay Mr M £100 for the overall inconvenience caused to him. Having 
thought about the impact caused to Mr M by the points above, I think this is fair and in line 
with what Id expect in these circumstances. And so I wont be asking virgin to do anything 
more here.
Putting things right
If they havent already done so, Virgin should now pay Mr M a total £100 for the 
inconvenience caused to him, deducting anything they have already paid to him under this 
complaint reference.
The £100 is made up of £50 they offered to him originally and the £50 the offered prior to the 
case being passed to me. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money  and now require it to put things right as 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman