DRN-3093846
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) incorrectly took instruction 
from a third party to not proceed with a request for a term extension on her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs S took out a buy-to-let mortgage with TMW in 2010. The mortgage was held on an 
interest only basis and had a term of 8 years. The mortgage was in joint names with Mrs S 
husband.
In 2018, with the mortgage term due to end, TMW contacted Mrs S and her husband and 
indicated they could apply to extend the mortgage term. 
Mrs S and her husband applied for a term extension. Ive seen a copy of the application 
which shows they asked to extend the term to August 2028. A cheque was sent to TMW to 
pay for the necessary valuation, as part of the application.
Around the same time, Mrs S and her husband gave written authority for TMW to provide 
information about their mortgage to one of their daughters. 
The application for the term extension was not assessed. TMW has provided contact notes 
confirming that Mrs S daughter asked for this not to go ahead. The cheque payment for the 
valuation was refunded as no valuation had taken place.
A six-month extension to the term was put in place by TMW, to allow Mrs S and her husband 
time to come up with a plan for repaying the mortgage. It appears however that this was only 
initially explained to Mrs S daughter.
Mrs S husband unfortunately passed away in October 2018  shortly after these events. And 
the mortgage was transferred into Mrs S sole name.
Mrs S says she became aware in early 2019 that the term extension had not gone ahead. 
So, she complained to TMW. She said she hadnt given authority for her daughter to act for 
her and her husband on the account. And TMW was wrong to have accepted her daughters 
instruction not to proceed with the application. She said she wanted the term extension shed 
asked for to be put in place.
I understand that Mrs S has continued to make the monthly interest only repayments to the 
mortgage since the term expired.
TMW accepted that it shouldnt have cancelled the application for the term extension as 
Mrs S daughter did not have authority to transact on the account  only to receive 
information. So, it offered Mrs S £100 for the upset caused. It said that it could still consider 
an application for a term extension. But Mr S would need to make a new application for this 
 as she was now the sole mortgage holder and her circumstances had changed.
Unhappy with this response Mrs S asked our service to consider her complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into matters. He didnt think it was unreasonable that TMW needed a 
new application to be made, as the circumstances between the first application being made 
and now, were different. But he didnt think the offer of £100 went far enough to address the 
upset caused and recommended that TMW increase its offer to £250.
TMW accepted the investigators opinion. But Mrs S did not. She said that shed incurred 
solicitors fees, as part of dealing with her husbands estate, that she wouldnt otherwise 
have incurred but for the term extension not going ahead. She said this was due to TMW 
accepting instruction form her daughter  as this had caused disputes between her daughter 
and her other children, which had impacted the settlement of the estate. And she said she 
felt TMW should be required to cover these costs.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW has accepted that it made an error by taking instruction from Mrs S daughter to cancel 
the application for a term extension, as she did not have authority to transact on the 
mortgage. So as TMW acknowledges that an error was made, what is left for me to decide, 
is what the fair way to put things right is.
The term of the mortgage expired in 2018. TMW provided short term extensions, to allow for 
further planning to take place. And it has allowed payments to the mortgage to continue in 
the meantime. I think this is reasonable.
Mrs S has said she wants TMW to put in place the term extension, in line with the application 
made in 2018. TMW says that a new application would be required  not least because the 
circumstances around the mortgage have changed as Mrs S is now the sole borrower.
TMW is required to act responsibly when deciding whether to lend or agree to amendments 
to existing lending. To do that, as is standard industry practice, it will generally review the 
circumstances of an application, whether the property is considered suitable security, 
through a valuation, and whether the mortgage is affordable based on the applicants 
financial position. 
While I can see that a term extension request form was returned in 2018, I cant see that 
TMW carried out any assessment of this application, as it was cancelled shortly after being 
submitted  albeit incorrectly. The valuation of the property was cancelled, and the fee 
refunded  so Mrs S did not incur a cost. And income and expenditure information was not 
reviewed. So, there was no agreement by TMW to the term extension. And as there was no 
assessment of the application, I cant reasonably require TMW to put the extension in place 
as if one had taken place. And I think it is fair that TMW requires a new application to be 
made now, so it can assess this based on current circumstances. 
TMW has confirmed it will consider a new application by Mrs S. Which I think is fair. And 
while I appreciate that completing a full application now might be time consuming, Im 
conscious that this hasnt been done previously. So, this hasnt been duplicated and Im 
satisfied would always have been required.
Mrs S indicated to our service that she would be looking to repay the mortgage over a period 
of approximately five years. But any proposal would need to be discussed with TMW and 
would be subject to a full application  which Id expect TMW to consider in line with its 
lending criteria, but having regard for what has happened to this point. In the event a term extension was not agreed though, as the mortgage term ended in 2018, I think itd be 
reasonable for TMW to seek repayment proposals. Id remind TMW though that Id expect it 
to treat Mrs S fairly at all times and consider all available options, with looking to enforce its 
security being a last resort.
Mrs S has said she thinks an application is no longer as straightforward as it wouldve been 
in 2018, due to the family dispute that has arisen as a result of TMW incorrectly accepting 
her daughters instruction. But TMW already holds a charge over the property as a result of 
the buy-to-let mortgage. And Mrs S is the sole remaining party to the mortgage. So, I dont 
think she is prevented from applying. In any event, as Ive explained the application in 2018 
was not assessed. And there is no guarantee that it wouldve been approved at that point 
had the assessment taken place. And while I appreciate circumstances are now different, I 
still think it is reasonable for TMW to assess any request now, based on circumstances as 
they currently stand.
Mrs S has said she has incurred additional legal costs in relation to her husbands estate, as 
a result of TMWs actions. She says this is because they led to a family dispute. She has 
estimated these costs to be in the thousands. But we havent seen any evidence of these 
costs.
Im sorry to hear of the dispute that has since arisen. But I dont think I can reasonably hold 
TMW responsible for this or the additional costs Mrs S has mentioned. The position in 2018 
was that TMW held a charge over a rental property as a result of the buy-to-let mortgage. 
Had the mortgage been extended, that position wouldve been the same  the charge would 
still be in place. The term wasnt extended. But the position is still the same  TMW stills 
holds a charge because the mortgage balance is outstanding. So, the mortgage not being 
extended hasnt altered the overall position with regards to the estate. And while TMW has 
acknowledged it shouldnt have accepted instruction from one of Mrs S daughters, I cant 
reasonably say that without this, there wouldnt still have been a dispute with regards to the 
estate.
I dont doubt that it was upsetting for Mrs S to find that her request to extend the term had 
not proceeded and that TMW made an error. And I think TMW should compensate her for 
the distress this caused. But having thought carefully about this, I agree with our Investigator 
that a payment of £250 is a fair way to address this. I say this because, while I dont doubt 
finding out the application had not been progressed initially came as a shock ,I think TMW 
has largely acted fairly since the issue was raised  by acknowledging its error and 
confirming it would still consider an extension or other repayment proposals.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right, I require The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay Mrs S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman