DRN-3852125
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a guarantor loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. He says that the loan was unaffordable.
Background
George Banco provided Mr P with a guarantor loan for £2,000.00 in March 2019. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £107.15.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr P and George Banco had told us. And he thought 
that George Banco hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
George Banco needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr P could afford to make his payments before providing him with this guarantor 
loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
George Banco provided Mr P with a loan for £2,000.00 in March 2019. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 36 instalments of £107.15. George Banco says it agreed to Mr Ps application 
after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr P could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the 
other hand, Mr P has said he wasnt in a good financial position at the time.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and George Banco have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that George Banco has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. George Banco searches appear to show that he had previous difficulties 
with credit and historic defaults. However, Mr P said that he hadnt repaid those historic 
defaults because these were debts his ex-partner had taken out in his name. 
Given this was Mr Ps first loan with George Banco , he provided a plausible explanation for 
the defaults and the rest of the information obtained showed the relatively low monthly 
payments were affordable, I dont think that it was unreasonable for George Banco to rely on 
what Mr P said. 
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information George Banco obtained. Equally I accept 
that if George Banco had gone into the depth of checks Mr P appears to be saying it should 
have  such as obtaining bank statements  it may have reached a different answer, 
although weve not been provided with clear evidence this was the case. 
In any event, the key thing here is that George Banco wasnt providing Mr P with a 
mortgage. It was providing a loan for a relatively small sum  albeit at a high rate of interest. 
And its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies and George Banco was reasonably entitled to rely on what Mr P had said 
about his historic defaults, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
extended into the level of checks Mr P is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that George Banco did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that George Banco treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his guarantor loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman