DRN-2087314
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly rejected his 
claims under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and chargeback provisions 
regarding the provision of legal services. He wants a refund.
What happened
Mr C tells us that he paid a business Ill refer to as CR for services in connection with legal 
proceedings which were brought by his wife. The fee of £3,000 was paid using a Barclaycard 
credit card. He complains that the services werent provided as stated and that his wife was 
left without representation.
Barclaycard told us it declined Mr Cs Section 75 claim as the service paid for was not for the 
main card holder. It said it had been satisfied with the response it had received to its 
chargeback attempt and was unable to pursue the matter further.
Our investigator didnt think we could look at the Section 75 part of Mr Cs complaint as it 
was brought outside our time limits. Mr C having complained to this service on 13 December 
2019 when Barclaycard had issued a final response letter on 22 March 2019. The limits 
require a complaint to be brought within six months of a final response letter being sent 
unless exceptional circumstances apply. He didnt recommend that the chargeback 
complaint be upheld. He said the chargeback had been raised on the basis of services not 
received. But he felt that there was evidence on which Barclaycard could rely that CR had 
provided the services.
Mr C didnt agree with the view of the investigator. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr C feels let down by whats happened. I can see from reading through all the 
information that the legal proceedings which lay behind these circumstances were viewed by 
him and his wife as of great importance.
Ill deal briefly with the section 75 issue. Barclaycard issued a final response letter on 22 
March 2019. It was clear that this letter dealt separately with the two parts of the complaint.  
It declined the section 75 claim as the required debtor  creditor  supplier relationship 
wasnt present. The letter went on to indicate that the chargeback claim would be reviewed 
later. And a further FRL about this was issued in July 2019. 
I agree with our investigator that the section 75 part of the complaint is one that we are not 
able to look at as it was made outside of the six month time limit. And Im not aware of any 
exceptional circumstances which apply.
For completeness, I should add that Ive written a separate note  which doesnt form part of 
my decision - out of courtesy to Mr C to address issues hes raised. This advised him that 
even if Id been able to look at the Section 75 part of his complaint that legislation wouldnt 
have applied in these circumstances. 
In view of a comment within the reply that I received, I should explain that when I referred to 
chargeback remaining a potential alternative for redress I should have been clearer. This 
was intended only to confirm that the chargeback part of his complaint was one that I could 
still look at. And not that it could be taken up again with Barclaycard.
It may help if I set out briefly the chargeback process. This is provided by the Card Scheme - 
in this case VISA. It allows customers to ask for transactions to be reversed if theres a 
problem with the goods or services theyve paid for. Disputed charges may temporarily be 
reversed and the sums recredited to the debtors account. But if the chargeback is 
successfully defended then that recredit can be cancelled.
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund. We would expect Barclaycard to check the nature of the problem against 
the possible chargeback reasons to see whether the claim is likely to be successful. Here 
that was under the provision for services not provided. Barclaycard raised the claim which 
was then defended by CR.
Its important to note that Im not determining the merits of any claim Mr C may have against 
CR or the counsel it recommended. And Im not making any findings of fact about whether 
the counsel instructed through CR acted correctly in the way he drafted his opinion. Or the 
quality of that opinion.
What Im determining is if Barclaycard followed the required process when it received Mr Cs 
complaint.
Ive viewed a copy of the invoice issued by CR which reads:
Consideration of papers, full review of documentation & Advice on merits of case.
A further fee will be required for the hearing after this advice.
This doesnt indicate that representation was included in the initial fee. 
In those circumstances, when the chargeback claim was defended on the basis that the 
contracted services had been provided, in my opinion, Barclaycard was entitled to take the 
view that it had done all that might reasonably be expected under the chargeback process.
Im aware that part of Mr Cs complaint asserts that the counsel instructed by CR received 
the fee before issuing the contract. And that neither he nor his wife signed nor agreed to the 
purported terms. But I dont find that this affects the view I take about whether Barclaycard 
acted correctly.
I dont consider it was for Barclaycard to examine the genuineness of the alleged contract or 
the contents of the invoice. Chargeback isnt a process that was designed to determine 
complex disputes where the authenticity of documentary information provided by the parties 
is in dispute.
And it had also received information to show that counsel had issued an opinion after a 
review of the case papers. It wouldnt be reasonably foreseeable that counsel would 
represent a client without having read the case papers. And theres no documentary 
information to show that the £3,000 fee also included representation for Mrs C. In those circumstances and given the defence to the chargeback was based on the fact that 
the contracted services had been provided, I find that Barclaycard was entitled to conclude 
that it could do nothing more to reclaim the funds.
I know my decision will come as disappointment to Mr C but I find Barclaycard did what was 
required of it in pursuance of the chargeback claim. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman