DRN-3020013
The complaint
Mr T has complained about his previous motor insurer Zenith Insurance plc as he believes it 
caused a new policy hed arranged to be cancelled, for which he incurred costs.
What happened
Mr T had cover with Zenith, but he changed provider in December 2020. The new policy 
arranged by N began on 14 December 2020 and he was asked to provide evidence of his 
no claims discount (NCD) as well as a copy of his drivers licence. The NCD confirmation 
Mr T had access to, at that time from Zenith, showed five years of no claims. But Mr T had 
told N hed had seven years without a fault claim.
N wrote to Mr T and said it needed this information to be provided by 11 January 2021 or his 
policy would be cancelled. Mr N didnt provide the information as directed and the policy 
cancelled, for which Mr T was charged. He complained to Zenith. He said it had recorded 
some claims incorrectly and this had caused his policy to be cancelled. Later he said Zenith 
had prevented him from being able to provide proof of his NCD to N (because the document 
he had showed only five years).
Zenith said it had made some errors in respect of claims being recorded, and it amended the 
records. It also offered Mr T a total of £200 compensation for any upset hed been caused 
due to the errors. But it wasnt persuaded these errors had caused the policy cancellation. It 
said that had occurred because Mr T hadnt provided the documents asked for. Although it 
then sent documents to Mr T amending his NCD record to show seven years, as hed 
thought it should be. 
When Mr T complained to us our investigator made some enquiries with N, as well as 
considering the file records submitted by Zenith. She noted what Mr T recalled as having 
occurred as well. Having considered everything, she felt that Mr T has caused the 
cancellation by not cooperating with N, rather than because of any failure by Zenith.
Mr T said that if he had provided N with the five year NCD proof he did have, the policy 
would have been too expensive for him. But our investigator pointed out that if;
he had provided it the incorrect proof; or if
hed told N that he needed more time to provide correct proof; or if
hed approached Zenith in December 2020 (meaning hed have likely got the information 
he needed to forward to N by early January 2021);
Then its likely the policy wouldnt have been cancelled. Mr T asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that some of the details Zenith had recorded for Mr T werent entirely correct. 
And that this initially meant the document he had setting out his no claims discount 
entitlement was wrong. But Mr T didnt tell Zenith about what was wrong until after the policy 
N had arranged was cancelled. 
Mr T knew in December that he had to provide key information to N, and that if he didnt his 
policy would cancel. N didnt just need the no claims discount information though. It needed 
Mr Ts drivers licence too. But, taking into account enquiries our investigator made, Mr T 
didnt provide his drivers licence to N, or tell it that he was only able to currently show it 
proof of five years NCD. At least not in time to forestall the policy cancellation. N has 
confirmed that if hed provided both these documents to it in good time, regardless of how 
many years NCD was showing, his policy wouldnt have cancelled. 
I appreciate that a policy based on five years NCD, rather than seven, would be more 
expensive. But I think Mr T could reasonably have still gained the correct proof form Zenith 
afterwards and then asked N to recalculate his premium based on the correct information. 
Essentially Mr T would have bought himself time; preventing the cancellation and the extra 
costs for him to pay that went with that. 
I also see that once Zenith became aware of the error it acted quickly to begin setting 
straight its record for Mr T, on both its own and the industry database. Whilst I see that 
getting the claims themselves straight took a little while, I note that it only took Zenith about a 
week to write to Mr T confirming he had seven years NCD. So if Mr T had paid a little extra 
to secure his policy based on the incorrect NCD information, he wouldnt have been out of 
pocket for long. And given Zenith accepts that it should have taken better care with its record 
keeping, I think it wouldve compensated Mr T for any loss or upset caused in that respect. 
That said, I note again that Zenith was able to provide confirmation of the seven years NCD 
within a week of Mr T first contacting it in January. So I think if hed told Zenith about the 
incorrect NCD record in December 2020, hed likely have been able to provide N with exactly 
what it needed from him to secure the policy at the price hed been quoted (based on seven 
years NCD). So he wouldnt have been charged extra and the cancellation would have been 
averted too. 
So I dont think it would be reasonable to say that Zenith, looking at what actually did 
happen, should compensate Mr T for what he lost because of the cancellation. In short, 
I think Mr T could have taken some simple and reasonable actions to prevent that from 
occurring. His loss didnt, in my view, occur because of a failure by Zenith.
However, its clear to me that Mr T did have to spend a fair bit of time trying to sort the claim 
and NCD record out with Zenith. Its offered a total of £200 compensation to make up for 
that. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zenith Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman