DRN-3798922
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance,
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs S took out a 60-month fixed sum loan for £12,500 from Novuna on 4 February 
2018. The monthly repayments were £226.55 and the total repayable was £13,593. Mrs S 
repaid the loan early in June 2018.
Mrs S says she was given the loan without any affordability checks and it led to a spiral of 
debt. Novuna halved her mortgage cost but she was separated at this time and paid it all. 
She was not asked for any confirmation of her income or outgoings. She wants all interest 
she paid refunding. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She said the checks Novuna carried out 
did not show any signs that the loan might not be sustainably affordable, and nor did the 
information Mrs S had subsequently provided to this service.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she had 
already had a similar complaint upheld so why not this one. Her circumstances were the 
same. Also the child maintenance payments she was receiving should not have been taken 
into account as they could have stopped at any time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Novuna will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to
these complaints is set out on our website.
I need to decide if Novuna carried out fair and proportionate checks before lending; if not
what would better checks most likely have shown; and if it did, was the lending decision it
then made fair?
Novuna asked Mrs S for her annual income, employment status and residential status when 
she applied. It says it verified her income via the credit reference agencies, concluding her 
monthly net income would be £1,421.19. Based on her marital status it assumed she paid 
half of the monthly mortgage of £388. It says it carried out a credit check that showed she 
had £4,200 of debt and monthly credit commitments of £123.03. It concluded after these 
commitments and the repayments for this new loan she would be left with £880.11 to cover 
her other expenses. It felt this to be reasonable for someone in her circumstances and so 
gave the loan.
Mrs S argues she was paying all the mortgage at this time, not half, and I can see this to be 
the case from her bank statements. But I dont think knowing this ought to have changed 
Novunas decision as she also had income in excess of the other 50% of the mortgage that 
Novuna had not taken into account. This came from benefits, tax credits and maintenance 
payments. Mrs S says the latter should not be included, but I think its fair they are. Mrs Ss 
bank statements show they were regular fixed payments  and whilst I accept this could 
change, so can other income sources, say due to events like redundancy, so I dont see that 
as a reason not to consider them. 
Novuna says it cant share the full results of its credit check as its systems translate the raw 
data into a credit score. It has told us its best applicants tend to score over 900 and Mrs Ss 
application score was 909. However, it has also said the score measures the probability of 
default. As it knows it needs to check not just the likelihood of it being repaid, but also the 
impact of the repayments on Mrs S. From what it has said Im not wholly satisfied its checks 
did this. But I wont comment further on this as I have looked at Mrs Ss full credit file and 
dont think even if Novuna carried out better checks it ought to have made a different lending 
decision. Mrs S was not over indebted, she had no public records and seems to have been 
up-to-date on all her active revolving accounts, with no adverse information on her file. She 
had no other loans at the time. 
It follows I dont think Novuna was wrong to lend to Mrs S.
Mrs S has asked about another irresponsible lending complaint she made that we upheld. I 
can only comment here on the merits of this complaint but to aid her understanding I would 
say that the checks we think a lender should do and the decisions it ought to make can vary 
for a number of reasons, such as the value and term of the loan as well as what the initial 
checks carried out show.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman