DRN-4369848
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from his 
account.
What happened
Mr O disputes making a number of payments using his debit card and which came to over 
£7,000. He says that he didnt allow anyone else to use the card or disclose his PIN.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding the payments. A number of them including one for over 
£4,500 it seemed to a hotel, required the chip on the card to be read and the PIN entered.  
Mr O said he had the card with him when he reported the loss and hadnt given his PIN to 
anyone else. TSB said it would co-operate with any police inquiry.
Our investigator said that he didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There were 28 
payments in dispute between 26 December 2022 and 3 January 2023. There were 
payments made abroad. TSB had provided evidence that a number of these required the 
chip on the card to be read and the correct PIN entered. Mr O had said he had the card with 
him at all times and that no one he lived with could have taken this. He had the card with him 
when he reported the fraud. There was no plausible explanation of how these payments 
could have been made without Mr O consenting to them. He noted that Mr O had provided 
evidence he was in hospital during the period after the day the disputed payments began. 
Mr O didnt agree. He provided details of the medication he was on and said that he wasnt 
in control of his personal items and wallet and was asleep all the time. He said it was clear 
his card was taken before he was admitted to hospital but that he wasnt aware of this and 
didnt give his consent. Mr O said that someone else used his card, but he didnt know who 
and that it was impossible to accuse someone without evidence. His position was that it was 
clear that someone stole his card and then returned it. He had a crime number relating to 
this incident. 
He wanted this case to be reviewed as he wasnt happy with the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. I 
need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr O wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr O authorise the payments on the account including by allowing someone else to 
use the card?
TSB has provided an audit of the card use. Im satisfied that the payments in dispute were 
authenticated with the card details. Over 10 of the payments required the chip on the card to 
be read and the correct PIN to be entered. The card was present for other payments too. 
Weve not seen evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use.
The issue is whether Mr O consented to the use of the card in this way. I have seen the 
hospital admission information he has provided. And that this shows he was in hospital from 
27 December 2022 to 9 January 2023. He has provided details of medication and I dont 
have reason to doubt that he was taking this before his admission. He explains that as far as 
he knew the card was in his wallet on the table in his bedroom.
He had the card when he reported the loss on 4 January 2023 and when based on the 
information he was still in hospital. But by just the day before that almost all the money in his 
account had been paid out. As our investigator says the card was present abroad. The first 
disputed transactions are consistent it seems with hotel and travel costs. The further 
spending is at a number of merchants.
It isnt impossible that a third party, knowing Mr O was unwell and going to be in hospital 
planned say to take an expensive trip then. And had taken his card from his home and 
returned it to him so that he had it in hospital when he reported the loss. At issue though is 
how that person would have discovered the PIN. Mr O was reasonably required to keep this 
secure and if he hadnt Id need to think about whether he was grossly negligent in not doing 
so. Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair 
and reasonable to conclude, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
And he in any event says that he didnt write this down or disclose it to anyone but that his 
wife might have known it. He says she didnt use it and travel abroad at this time. The last 
use of the PIN for an undisputed payment I can see from the information was on 20 
December 2022. So, it isnt most likely that an unknown third party could have then seen the 
PIN and managed to obtain and return the card. I would also find it unusual for a fraudster to 
take the risk of returning a card to Mr O and to be able to do so just around the time he 
clearly was going to check his account and would find out what had happened.
I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr O to be able to identify a fraudster. But on his account it 
would seem that person had some detailed knowledge about him. And the point is that he 
cant think of anyone who could have done this and now he is aware of the circumstances. I 
appreciate he has reported what happened.
Having carefully balanced all the evidence I find it most likely that Mr O consented to these 
payments which includes him allowing someone else to use the card. A main reason I say 
that it because there is no point of compromise for the PIN, and he says he kept that safe as 
he was reasonably expected to do. In addition, a person using his card without his authority 
would have the risk of discovery and would have been particularly bold in both taking the 
card and then replacing it. And in not taking as much money as quickly as possible but instead in spending a significant part of the money it seems on a hotel and travel and 
increasing the risk of detection. 
I appreciate the amount of money at stake, and I know he will be disappointed when I say 
that I wont be asking TSB to do anything further. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman