DRN-3983007
The complaint
Mrs B complains about a finance agreement she had with BMW Financial Services (GB)
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (who Ill call BMWFS). She says that
Voluntary Termination (VT) quotes that were issued months apart didnt change.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I dont think BMWFS have done enough to put things right for Mrs B and Im currently
inclined to tell them to pay more compensation.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. The 
terms of the finance agreement explained that Mrs B had a right to end the agreement
and if she wished to do so she would need to pay at least half of the total amount payable
under the agreement and to return the car. It said:
If you have paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments (my emphasis) you
will not have to pay any more.
So, as there were £1,775.60 of arrears (overdue instalments) on the account, even if Mrs B
had paid half of the total amount payable, she would still be told she had to pay the overdue
instalments of £1,775.60 before the termination could be completed.
BMWFS agree that they misinformed Mrs B. They have explained that when they discussed
the account with her in February 2022 an agent explained that the amount to VT would
continue to reduce. That wasnt the case as the halfway point appears to have been reached
by then and the VT quote was made up entirely of outstanding instalments. The quote
wouldnt reduce until these instalments were paid.
I can understand that may have meant that Mrs B didnt VT at that point and preferred to
wait a few months whilst the balance reduced. I can see the agreement was voluntarily
terminated in May 2022 when it was clear the balance wasnt reducing, and Mrs B agreed to
pay the outstanding instalments.
Ive thought about how to put things right for Mrs B.
The amount to VT was always correct but Mrs B has continued to pay instalments when, if
properly advised, I think its likely she would have terminated the agreement earlier. Shes
therefore paid more for the car than she needed to, but it wouldnt be fair to ask BMWFS to
refund those extra payments in full as Mrs B has had the benefit of the car. BMWFS have
offered a payment of £50 in respect of the mis advice Mrs B was given but I dont think thats
enough.
Mrs B has explained that the delay caused her financial and physical distress, and I can see
she had explained to BMWFS that they no longer needed the car as they now had the
benefit of a company vehicle. In all the circumstances I think BMWFS should refund one
monthly instalment of £488.80 to compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience their
inaccurate advice caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to tell BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited
to pay Mrs B £488.80 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their actions have
caused. They may deduct from that payment the £50 goodwill payment if thats already been
processed.
Responses
BMWFS said they were happy to consider the decision on the proviso that the amount 
ordered to be refunded will be offset on any outstanding balance 
Mrs B also replied to my provisional decision. She didnt think Id gone far enough, and she 
wanted BMWFS to give her back the amount she said shed over paid and not to have to 
pay BMWFS anything else. She explained This has had huge impact on my credit rating 
where I had good credit history and now Im suffering. I cannot stress enough how this has 
taken over our life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it would be fair to deduct the £488.80 from any payment still due from Mrs B. 
Thats because the payment is being made because I think Mrs B was asked to pay too 
much and I am in essence returning some of that overpayment to her. 
On the other hand, anything Mrs B still owes on the account is unrelated to this issue and it 
wouldnt in my opinion be fair to ask BMWFS to waive it.
Putting things right
Ive not therefore been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that provisional 
decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to pay Mrs B £488.80 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience their 
actions have caused. They may deduct from that payment the £50 goodwill payment if thats 
already been processed.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman