DRN-3490475
The complaint
Mrs F, and the estate of the late Mr F, complain about the advice they received from a 
representative of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Mrs F, and the estate of Mr F, complain through a representative. 
What happened
In April 1997 Mr and Mrs F received advice to invest into a whole of life policy to cover both 
their lives and pay out on second death. The policy had a sum assured of £100,000 and cost 
around £2,400 annually. Its recorded this was to cover a potential inheritance tax (IHT) 
liability.
Mr F has sadly passed away and Mrs F has recently surrendered the policy. Mrs Fs 
representative complains that the policy was mis-sold as Mr and Mrs Fs assets consist of 
working farms and would be subject to Agricultural Property Relief. Therefore there wasnt 
an IHT liability to protect.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that Mr and Mrs F had refused 
to complete the Financial Review with the adviser, so the advice was based on a scenario 
given to him that they would have an estate of around £500,000.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint. In summary he said:
- Its clear from pictures that Mr and Mrs Fs assets were working farms, and the 
adviser likely visited them there so ought to have known.
- Even if the adviser got a signed declaration that the customer wouldnt share 
information, the adviser shouldve known their occupation.
- The representative did not see how an adviser can give effective IHT advice without 
a full fact find.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. I 
dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has based the complaint on Aviva giving advice knowing the 
full facts of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances. But we know Mr and Mrs F refused to answer any 
questions about their circumstances. The evidence we have from the point of sale shows the 
adviser was giving advice on a hypothetical situation because of this. We dont know where 
the meeting took place so I cant be sure the adviser was aware of Mr and Mrs Fs main 
assets being working farms and its clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt actively make Aviva aware 
of this.
Theres a signed declaration from Mr and Mrs F which outlines they understand the 
consequences of not completing the financial review, and one of those consequences is that 
the advice given is limited. Ive had a look at what information Aviva had and whether the 
advice was suitable based on that information.
In the suitability letter, completed by the adviser in April 1997, he said that he had advised 
on methods of mitigating IHT which Mr and Mrs F were concerned will have to be paid by the 
beneficiaries of their estate when the second of them dies. The adviser goes on to 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs F didnt want to give away any assets during their lifetime. The 
suitability letter then says:
Whilst you have chosen not to complete a confidential financial review and have signed a 
disclaimer form instead, we did discuss what the potential inheritance tax would be were 
your estate to be worth half a million pounds. On that basis I showed how, at todays values, 
there could be a potential liability of over £100,000 without allowing for future inflation.
So, Im satisfied that Aviva was told to provide IHT advice based on a hypothetical situation 
that Mr and Mrs F would have an estate worth £500,000. I can see he then advised Mr and 
Mrs F to take out a whole of life policy set up on a joint life second death basis. He advised 
them to write the policy into trust to ensure the funds fell outside of the estate. The adviser 
also explained that the policy was set up on a standard basis  and that this meant it was 
designed to last their lifetime but was only guaranteed for ten years. He explained the 
illustration and how it worked.
From the evidence Ive seen Ive got nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs F told Aviva that 
their assets were made up of working farms. I dont think it was reasonable to expect the 
adviser to highlight the potential for Agricultural Property Relief when Mr and Mrs F refused 
to disclose their personal information  Aviva simply wasnt made aware of their 
circumstances and ensured Mr and Mrs F were aware the advice was limited because of 
this. Mr and Mrs F gave Aviva a hypothetical scenario, were told of the consequences of not 
disclosing their personal circumstances, and the advice was suitable for the situation they 
had put forward. The policy recommended was designed to provide cover for a potential IHT 
liability.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and the 
estate of Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman