DRN-3094904
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made on a 
home insurance policy.
Where I refer to esure Insurance Limited within this decision, this includes agents and 
representatives acting on its behalf.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H insured a property with a policy provided by esure. They made a claim 
following an escape of water.
esure accepted cover for the claim and arranged for repairs to be carried out by its 
contractors. Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the quality of the works carried out and 
referred a complaint about this to our service. Following our investigation, esure agreed to 
cover additional repairs at the property, and pay £500 compensation to Mr and Mrs H as 
recommended by our investigator.
Their complaint has been referred to me for a final decision as, following the agreement that 
additional works should be covered, two issues remain outstanding:
The extent of the further works for which esure is liable.
The amount esure should pay for these repairs.
esure has paid the £500 compensation recommended by our. Mr and Mrs H have accepted 
this compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once esure had agreed to cover additional works at the property, Mr and Mrs H obtained a 
quote from a local contractor. esure has said it wont cover for the removal of a pier in a 
bathroom and that the amount it pays should be limited to the amount it would have paid its 
own contractors to carry out the works. The bathroom has been the subject of repairs as part 
of the claim.
esure says that the pier was part of the original bathroom and that Mr and Mrs H wanted to 
have it removed as part of the initial repairs but this wasnt necessary in order to reinstate 
the bathroom. Mr and Mrs H disagree and say that the pier was installed as part of the poor 
quality initial repairs carried out and as part of the required remedial works it can be 
removed.
Weve been provided with photos showing the bathroom before the initial repairs were 
carried out and afterwards. On review of these Im satisfied that the pier thats currently in 
place in the bathroom is significantly wider than what was in place originally. esure has also 
referred to a photo showing damage to the original pier  this suggests to me that it must 
have been replaced, and the evidence I have supports that a wider pier was installed as part 
of the original works. 
The remedial works which are being covered include moving the bathtub as the original 
works have increased the distance from the wall  it seems that the pier was installed as part 
of that work, and so the larger pier has been installed because of that. I think that, if the 
bathtub being moved is being covered as its accepted its current position arose from poor 
quality works, then by extension the removal of a larger pier should also be covered as its 
size is likely to have been required due to the incorrect positioning of the bathtub.
I conclude that its fair for esure to cover the costs of removing the pier.
esure has offered £1457.09 for the further remedial works. Mr and Mrs Hs quote for the 
works (including the removal of the pier) is £3100. esure says that the cost of the pier 
removal would be £1200. It says the £1457.09 it has offered is the equivalent of what it 
would pay its own contractors to carry out the remedial works (excluding the pier removal). 
Its offered for its contractors to carry out the works. Mr and Mrs H have said theyd prefer to 
use their own contractors as they dont believe esures contractors would carry out the works 
effectively.
Normally where an insurer has offered for its contractors to carry out repair works, Id agree 
that it can fairly limit any cash settlement made to the amount it would pay its contractors. 
But I think the situation here is different. The contractors errors are the reason why the 
further works are required, so I dont think its unsurprising that Mr and Mrs H dont want 
them to carry these out. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable for esure to cover the 
reasonable costs of Mr and Mrs Hs preferred contractors. esure hasnt suggested that the 
costs submitted by Mr and Mrs H are unreasonable and Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
this is the case. While the costs are higher than esures contractors, its likely esure will have 
the benefit of lower rates than would be available to Mr and Mrs H.
I conclude that esure should make a further settlement to Mr and Mrs H of £3100  this 
being made up of the £1457.09 it previously offered (but I understand hasnt yet been paid) 
and the £1672.91 from the quote not included in esures offer. 
There are also tiling and flooring costs which arent yet known which will need to be added to 
the settlement paid to Mr and Mrs H. esures accepted that these will be covered and so the 
reasonable costs charged by Mr and Mrs Hs contractors will need to be added to the 
settlement.  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, esure Insurance 
Limited must make a further settlement of £3100 to Mr and Mrs H in line with the quote 
received from their preferred contractors. It will also need to make a settlement for the 
reasonable tiling and flooring costs of Mr and Mrs Hs preferred contractors which havent 
yet been calculated  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman