DRN-4162810
The complaint
Mr H complains about the price charged by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to renew his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H received a renewal invite which quoted a price almost £200 more than what hed paid 
the previous year. Mr H called LV to query this and was informed by the call handler he was 
on the toppest policy they offer. Mr H complained about the price and also about the 
language used by the call handler. LV responded and explained their call handlers arent 
able to discuss why the price has increased as this information is commercially sensitive. 
They explained the call handler was trying to explain Mr H was on the highest level of cover 
LV offer but incorrectly used the term toppest  for which LV apologised. LV also explained 
they take many factors into consideration when calculating the renewal premium  they 
explained this includes personal information as well as external factors. LV said they also 
use claims information to better understand how often, and how much, their customers are 
claiming. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought LV hadnt treated Mr H unfairly in 
relation to the pricing and didnt uphold the complaint about Mr Hs phone call. Mr H 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr H paid a premium of £447 in 2022 but the premium then increased to £638.54 
the following year  so I understand why Mr H is concerned. LV have provided me with 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Hs price increase was 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been charged has been calculated 
correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other LV customers in Mr Hs position will 
have been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about LVs risk model, but I can see a 
factor which has led to the increase relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor 
and buildings insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules 
when offering renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated 
from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mr H was offered his renewal by LV, so 
they did need to follow these at the time. And, given theyve done this  and the information 
provided shows Mr H hasnt been charged more than the ENBP - I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly if this has resulted in a change in price. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr H would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. A large reason for the change is in response 
to the FCA pricing rules and LV taking the steps they needed to, allowing them to be 
compliant with these. Mr H may feel this is unfair, but LV, like all insurers, will review their 
approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes to the premium. They have 
explained the ENBP was a change across all their policies as they changed their approach. 
So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the change and Mr H hasnt been 
treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
LV have described how they refreshed their rating system to more accurately reflect the 
expected costs they underwrite and how this led to Mr Hs premium increasing at renewal. In 
addition to this, I can see LV did, in their renewal quote, remind Mr H that he could shop 
around to see if he could get a better price. Its not clear from the information Ive seen how 
long Mr H has been insured with LV but if there have been at least four renewals, then 
section 6.5 of the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business 
to provide specific wording about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating   
Mr H fairly, I think theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I do appreciate Mr H will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated when LV explained they couldnt provide 
specific details about their pricing structure. Pricing is an area where the information which 
sits behind an insurers explanation will often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think LV 
have acted unreasonably in not providing Mr H with details of their pricing structure and risk 
ratings. 
I understand Mr H believes LV have discriminated against him  in particular, he believes LV 
have treated him unfairly by taking into account his surname when pricing his policy. I 
understand Mr H believes this is the case because LV say, in their complaint response, they 
take into account a customers personal details. Ive seen the pricing information provided by 
LV, and theres no evidence theyve used Mr Hs surname as a rating factor. Insurers will 
often take personal details into account when assessing risk, but this often includes 
information such as the home address. I understand Mr H is concerned about the customer service during a phone call with LV. 
During the call Mr H does raise a concern about the renewal quote and the call handler 
explains this is the final price as this is the toppest level of cover. Mr H queries the use of 
this word, and the call handler recognises this isnt the correct term to use and apologises. In 
their complaint response, I can see LV have repeated their apology. I acknowledge the call 
handler, when attempting to explain Mr H was on the highest level of cover, has used a word 
which isnt correct. I think the apology offered by the call handler and repeated in the 
complaint response is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Mr H is primarily concerned about the price increase. But, I hope he feels reassured 
that Ive checked this and this is largely down to LV changing their rating structure to be 
compliant with the FCA pricing rules  which is reasonable in the circumstances. I wish to 
reassure Mr H Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned 
a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. 
Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman