DRN-4456684
The complaint
Mr T complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) failed to reduce his contractual 
monthly mortgage payment after he made two lump sum payments to his mortgage with it.
What happened
In 2005 Mr T took a mortgage with RBS for approximately £215,000, over 23 years on an 
interest only basis. Mr T says the mortgage was set up to allow him to pay the minimum 
amount of interest per month with interest calculated daily on the amount owed. 
In July 2023 he paid two amounts of £25,000  one on 3 July and one on 4 July. He says 
that he did that because of increasing interest rates. He says that should have reduced the 
amount of interest charged by RBS but that didnt happen. And for two months  at which 
point he noticed the error  he was charged 35% more interest than he should have been. 
Mr T says that made it difficult to manage his finances during that time.
Mr T says he contacted RBS and was told he should have asked it to adjust the monthly 
payment after he paid the lump sums, but acknowledged that wasnt outlined in the contract. 
He says the contract does say he was supposed to have been charged the minimum amount 
of interest based on a daily interest calculation.
Mr T complained to RBS. In its response dated 16 August 2023, it said there are two ways 
the amount taken for payment on Mr Ts monthly direct debit can be changed. They are by a 
change in the Bank of England base rate or if Mr T contacts RBS to ask for a change. RBS 
said, where the payment made (collected via the direct debit) is more than the minimum 
interest amount payable, the difference is used to reduce the capital balance. It confirmed 
that payments from September 2023 would be collected at the minimum interest amount. 
And it offered to refund the overpayment to Mr T. Hes since told us he has not asked for the 
overpayments to be refunded.
Dissatisfied with RBS response, Mr T asked us to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint as he thought RBS hadnt breached the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ts mortgage agreement.
Mr T disagreed. He said his mortgage agreement allowed for over payments and was set up 
to charge a minimum amount of interest. And, he said, its reasonable to expect that RBS 
can manage both those things correctly. Mr T said his cash flow was affected and he had no 
desire to reduce his capital balance with regular overpayments.
As Mr T disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide this complaint, Ive considered Mr Ts mortgage terms and conditions and his 
mortgage offer letter to assess whether RBS did or didnt act in line with what Mr T ought to 
have expected. And Ive thought about whether, in all the circumstances, RBS has acted 
reasonably in respect of its handling of this matter.
Mr Ts mortgage offer, dated 29 June 2005, contains a section headed What happens if you 
want to make overpayments? And in that section, it says:
Interest is calculated on how much you owe each day, so any overpayments 
immediately reduce your borrowing and therefore the interest you will pay.
I think the key part of this statement is where it says the interest you will pay. I take that to 
mean the overall cost of interest charged over the life of the mortgage. That said, I can 
understand why Mr T may have assumed the statement referred to a reduction in the cost of 
his monthly payment, though I dont agree that it says that.
Ive seen nothing in Mr Ts mortgage offer that says hell only pay the minimum amount of 
interest chargeable every month. But I cant know what he asked for at the time the 
mortgage was sold and what he was led to believe by the mortgage advisor. Mr T hasnt said 
the mortgage advisor told he would only pay the minimum amount of interest chargeable 
every month, but I havent ruled that out as something that may have happened.
Ive considered the mortgage terms and conditions to see what they say about only the 
minimum interest chargeable being collected every month and what they say about 
overpayments. Having done so, Ive not been able to find anything that specifically explains 
what happens to monthly payments following a lump sum overpayment. And Ive seen 
nothing that specifically says the monthly payments will be limited to the minimum amount of 
interest chargeable based on the outstanding balance.
Given the above, Ive thought about whats reasonable in all the circumstances. Generally, 
where mortgages have a degree of flexibility  in that they allow overpayments and interest 
is calculated daily  there are two options for payments following lump sum overpayments. 
The payments either stay the same and the amount paid in addition to the interest 
chargeable is used to reduce the capital  as has happened here  or the monthly payments 
reduce accordingly  as Mr T says he wanted. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts mortgage dont specify which of those options is the 
default one. So, I dont think its unreasonable that RBS continued to collect the same 
payment in the absence of any instruction from Mr T. I understand that it was clear to Mr T 
that his intentions were to reduce his monthly expenditure. But Ive seen no indication that 
RBS ought to have known that  there doesnt appear to have been any correspondence 
from Mr T about him wanting to achieve that.
More widely, in RBS response to Mr Ts complaint, it said it would refund the overpayment 
for the two months affected. I understand that Mr T thinks the damage has already been 
done and so declined RBS offer  and that means the outstanding balance on the mortgage 
will remain lower due to the difference used to reduce the capital. But I think RBS acted 
reasonably in making the offer and I think it didnt do anything wrong by keeping his monthly 
payment the same following the overpayments, given that it appears to have had no way of 
knowing Mr Ts intentions. 
Overall, I dont think RBS has acted unreasonably and I dont think its mortgage terms and 
conditions say it will automatically reduce the contractual monthly payment following a lump 
sum overpayment. So, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman