DRN-2142942
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs K was given a loan of £7,500 by Everyday Loans in July 2014. The loan was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of around £332. The total amount payable, including 
interest was just over £15,980. From what I understand, the loan was intended to pay off Mrs 
Ks previous loan with Everyday Loans and to provide a balance in cash to her. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ks complaint. She didnt think Everyday Loans 
had been wrong to provide the loan. Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, 
and so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs K would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it 
make a fair lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs K could 
repay her loan in a sustainable way. The lenders checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. But there was no set list of checks that Everyday Loans had to do.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mrs K. I am not upholding her complaint and I shall explain 
why.
Given the amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the length of the loan term, I 
would expect a lender to take steps to gain a thorough understanding of the customers true 
financial position. Everyday Loans carried out some checks before it gave the loan to Mrs K. 
This included asking for details of her financial circumstances and acquiring a credit report. 
Mrs K had recently returned to work following maternity leave. Everyday Loans reviewed her 
bank statements. It also clarified her salary position through a letter from her employer which 
confirmed her base pay plus an annual bonus. 
Mrs K doesnt agree with the way that Everyday Loans used a generic percentage to assess 
the affordability of the loan. She thinks it didnt take into account the full costs of bringing up 
her family and it had acknowledged her as a higher risk borrower. Mrs K thinks that 
Everyday Loans should have realised that the loan was unaffordable because there were 
other loans recorded on her credit file and a payment made to another short-term lender was 
on her bank statements.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there were no bankruptcies, defaults 
or County Court Judgments recorded on Mrs Ks credit report. One loan was recorded as 
being live. The Total Loan Balance outstanding was recorded as around £5,503 and the 
Total Revolving Balance from 2 revolving accounts was recorded as around £5,411. Other 
previous loans were recorded but these appear to have been settled. I dont think that 
Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been concerned by the information showing on 
Mrs Ks credit report. 
Ive also considered the bank statements that Everyday Loans reviewed. I can see that Mrs 
K was overdrawn leading up to the loan. I appreciate that she had recently made a payment 
of around £61.00 to another payday lender. But there is no apparent evidence on the bank 
statements of serious gambling or repeated borrowing from multiple short-term lenders  
both of which might have suggested to a lender that the consumer was having difficulties 
managing her money or might be dependent on high cost borrowing. 
In the circumstances, I think the checks that Everyday Loans carried out when Mrs K  took 
her loan are likely to have been reasonable and proportionate. I cant fairly say that 
Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have concluded from its checks that Mrs K was having 
serious problems managing her money or that it ought to decline her application for the loan.  
Mrs K might not agree with the way that the lender assessed her application. But Ive not 
seen anything which makes me think that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been 
aware that Mrs K might not be able to repay her loan sustainably.
I am sorry that Mrs K struggled to repay the loan. But from what Ive seen I cant fairly say 
that Everyday Loans made an unfair lending decision when it provided the loan and I havent 
seen anything which makes me think that the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mrs K in some other way. 
My final decisionHaving considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman