DRN-3158177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that, Lloyds Bank PLC told them that their package bank account 
would be free for life, but that it has now said it will charge a monthly fee. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F say they have had a Gold bank account with Lloyds since 1985  though in 
fact the records I have suggest the account originally started in the 1960s. 
Before 1996, the Gold account wasnt a packaged bank account  instead it offered just 
banking benefits in return for a fee. From 1996 Lloyds began to add insurance and other 
benefits. It charged a fee for this  in 1996 it was £8 each month. But it also waived this fee if 
the balance was over a certain amount each month. 
Mr F says he was told when opening the account there would be no fees for life. But in 
2021 Lloyds told him it would start charging for the account. The Gold account is a packaged 
bank account which currently offers a package of benefits including worldwide travel 
insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and a limited interest-free 
overdraft. 
In responding to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, Lloyds said:
You also let us know you were misadvised you would never pay for the account at 
the time the waiver was given to you. I agree with this part of your complaint and 
want to put things right Im sorry you were given incorrect information. To make up 
for this, Im arranging to credit your account with a payment of £40.00.
One of our adjudicators looked at the case and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont have a copy of the terms and conditions that applied when the account started 
several decades ago. But I think it highly likely that Lloyds would, when agreeing to open 
the account, have said that it reserved the right to change the features and costs of the 
account, or to close it down. This has been a standard feature of banking terms and 
conditions for a very long time. And I can see that this is reflected in the earliest 
documents I have available to me for the Gold account. A sales leaflet for the account 
from February 1990 says, The Bank may also at any time refuse to open or continue an 
account or refuse any deposit. And a booklet about the Gold account from July 1997 said 
Lloyds Bank may vary the service and facilities offered in its Gold Service Current 
Account on giving notice to you, if and when it is necessary or appropriate to do so to 
reflect alterations in the scope and nature of the service which we are able to provide to 
customers in accordance with our systems capabilities and routines and having regard to 
market practice and overall customer demand. And I know that its terms and conditions 
in recent years will have made its position clear on this. 
So Im satisfied that Lloyds has the contractual right to vary the terms in the way it has, 
and I dont see any regulatory restriction on the way it has done this. 
This leaves the question of whether Mr and Mrs F were misadvised by the bank when the 
account started  and, if so, what the consequences of that should be. I obviously cant be 
sure what exactly was said, and whether Mr and Mrs F have fully remembered everything 
they were told  this was, after all, a very long time ago. But, even if Lloyds employee did 
verbally tell Mr and Mrs F the account would be free for life, I dont see that Lloyds 
should be bound by that in a situation such as this. The information would have been 
incorrect but, as a result of the misinformation, I dont see that Mr and Mrs F have lost out. 
They havent paid for something that wasnt given to them, or that was otherwise of no 
use to them  in fact, so far, theyve received benefits without having to pay for them 
(apart from making sure they kept a high-enough balance to ensure the fee waiver). 
The introduction of a charge now doesnt actually lead to a loss. Instead it just means that 
Mr and Mrs F will need to choose whether they want to pay for the benefits in future or 
change their account for one that is fee-free. This means they have the option to avoid 
costs. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs F are dissatisfied given what they are sure they were 
promised. But, in my view, what they have suffered is disappointment that they will not get 
what they expected. I think the payment by Lloyds of £40 is reasonable to redress that. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman