The complaint
Mr C wants an explanation of what would happen to his Offset mortgage with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC if the bank became insolvent.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The question Mr C is asking isnt as straightforward to answer as he believes. Thats 
because there would be different parties involved; that is, the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and an insolvency practitioner. It also depends on the law 
and FSCS rules in place at the time, as those can change.
In terms of the FSCS its current guidance is:
If the deposit account is separate from the mortgage account balance, FSCS would 
not apply set-off (i.e., set off any deposit balance against the mortgage debt). FSCS 
would pay compensation for the deposit account on a gross basis up to our 
compensation limit. If there was any deposit balance over the limit, however, under 
insolvency law, the insolvency practitioner may seek to set-off this balance against the 
mortgage. If the deposit and mortgage accounts are combined and effectively operate 
as one large overdraft, FSCS would have to treat it as an overdraft and no 
compensation would be payable.
Barclays isnt authorised to give insolvency advice to Mr C, so any information he wants over 
and above that hell have to obtain himself  at his own cost. Theres no regulatory 
requirement for Barclays to provide further information to Mr C, so I cant hold Barclays liable 
for not doing so. 
If Mr C thinks this is something that needs to be looked at as part of a wider picture, then 
thats something he can raise with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Whilst the FCA wont deal with his individual complaint it can decide to take Mr Cs thoughts 
forward if it shares his concerns about the information provision around this. But as things 
currently stand Barclays has done nothing wrong in not answering Mr Cs questions in the 
way that he wants as it simply doesnt have to.
DRN-1666206My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion 
on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman