DRN-1370609
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund to him the money that he paid to an airline 
for it to print some boarding passes. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve complaints by customers 
about financial businesses by looking at what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. We have no regulatory or disciplinary role over those businesses and Im 
unable to require any of them to change the way that it conducts its business. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a consumer an 
equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold 
Mr Ks complaint about Lloyds Bank, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the airline and that Lloyds Bank's response to his claim 
under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ks claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K hadn't printed his boarding passes when he went to the airport for his flight and 
the airline charged him for issuing the boarding passes at the airport;
Mr K paid that charge using his Lloyds Bank credit card - though he says that he did 
so under protest;
he complained to Lloyds Bank that the charge was illegal and wasn't included in the 
contract that he'd made with the booking company;
I can understand Mr K's frustration at the charge and why he considers it to be unfair 
and excessive - but I can only uphold his complaint about Lloyds Bank if I'm satisfied 
that there's been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline;
I'm not persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that there's been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the airline in these circumstances - so I consider 
that Lloyds Bank's response to his complaint was fair and reasonable;
I consider that Mr K's concerns about the legality of the charge should be raised with 
the airline and its regulatory authorities - and I know that Mr K has already contacted 
them about this issue; and
I find that it wouldn't be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Lloyds Bank to refund to Mr K any of the money that he paid to the airline -or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman