DRN-1586076
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has proportionately settled her 
claim for costs relating to an injury abroad. 
Mr L brings this complaint on behalf of Mrs L, so for ease I will refer to all submissions as 
having been made by him. 
What happened
Mrs L took out a single trip travel insurance policy with URV. While she was abroad, she 
unfortunately suffered a fall. Mrs L was admitted to hospital and had to undergo surgery.
Mrs Ls son  Mr L  contacted URV about his mothers accident. And to validate the claim, 
URV requested Mrs Ls medical records from her GP. 
After reviewing the medical records, URV said it would be unable to cover the full costs of 
Mrs Ls claim. It said this was because she hadnt disclosed all of her pre-existing medical 
conditions when she took out the policy. URV said had Mrs L done this, it would have 
charged a higher premium for the policy. And it said because of this, it would cover 38% of 
the costs of her claim. 
URV gave Mrs L the option to pay her medical costs directly to the hospital, and then claim 
38% back from URV. Or, it would pay the costs upfront if Mrs L signed a declaration 
agreeing to reimburse URV for the remaining 62% of the costs within 28 days. 
Ultimately Mrs L signed the form, and URV paid the medical costs and arranged to repatriate 
her to the UK, after she was declared medically fit to fly. However, Mr L said it was unfair 
that URV asked for this form to be signed, and considers it to have been akin to blackmail.
Mr L complained to URV about its decision to settle the claim proportionately, and the way 
Mrs L had been treated. He also brought his complaint to this service and URV consented to 
our early involvement. 
When URV provided its final response to the complaint, it said it thought it had handled 
Mrs Ls claim fairly.
An investigator here looked into what had happened. She said she thought URV was entitled 
to settled Mrs Ls claim proportionately due to the misrepresentation she had made. And she 
didnt think URV had caused unnecessary delays or acted unfairly. 
URV accepted the investigators view and had no comments to add. However, Mr L 
disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA, depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
URV has said Mrs L failed to take reasonable care when she answered its questions about 
her pre-existing medical conditions. It asked Mrs L the following questions, to which she 
answered no. 
In the last five years, have you suffered from a serious or a recurring medical 
condition, been prescribed medication, received treatment or attended a medical 
practitioner surgery other than your mini stroke?
Have you ever been diagnosed or treated for any form of anxiety, depression or 
psychiatric condition including eating disorders?
Im satisfied that these questions posed by URV were clear, and required Mrs L to tell the 
insurer about any condition for which she had received treatment or had taken medication 
within the preceding five years, and specifically about the mental health conditions it listed. 
Other than advising URV of a mini stroke and arthritis, Mrs L did not declare any of her 
several other pre-existing conditions which were listed within her medical records, including 
anxiety and depression. So Im persuaded that she failed to take reasonable care to answer 
URVs questions correctly. 
For URV to take any action, there needs to have been a qualifying misrepresentation. So 
I need to identify whether or not the misrepresentation made by Mrs L made a difference to 
URV. 
URV provided underwriting evidence about what it would have done had Mrs L declared all 
of her pre-existing conditions when she took out her policy. This shows URV would still have 
offered cover, but would have charged Mrs L a higher premium. And because of this, Im 
satisfied Mrs L made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
URV deemed the misrepresentation Mrs L made to have been careless. She declared some 
but not all of her pre-existing conditions when taking out her policy, so I think its fair that 
URV has classified the misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. 
As Im satisfied the misrepresentation made by Mrs L should be treated as careless, Ive 
looked at the actions URV can take in accordance with CIDRA. As URV has evidenced it 
would have charged more for the policy, and because there has been a claim, the remedy 
available is a proportionate settlement. And so Im satisfied that it was fair for URV to agree settle Mrs Ls claim proportionately, in line with the percentage difference in the premium it 
would have charged, had she declared all of her pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr L has said Mrs L declared all of the medication she was taking to URV. And because of 
this, URV should have been aware these medications related to other pre-existing 
conditions. Ive thought about this, but I dont think its reasonable to expect this of URV. 
Mrs L is required to provide honest answers to URVs questions. And URV is entitled to rely 
on the answers she gave. Also, under the regulations, URV isnt required to request medical 
records at the point of offering the policy. 
Mr L has also said Mrs L may have misunderstood URVs questions due to her age, her 
conditions  including vascular dementia  and English not being her first language. He said 
the transcript of the call URV provided shows she was unsure in some of her answers. 
Ive thought about this this, but I dont think its something I can reasonably hold URV 
responsible for in this particular case, considering as Ive already found above, that the 
questions asked were clear. Im not persuaded that the way in which Mrs L answered the 
questions ought to have reasonably alerted URV to think she didnt understand what was 
being asked. Mrs L could have asked questions of URV if she was unsure of anything she 
was asked. And in line with the regulations, its the consumers responsibility to ensure the 
information they provide to an insurer is accurate. So if necessary, Mrs L could have 
checked her medical information with her GP and provided more details to URV. 
URV sent Mrs L the policy terms, and I think these gave clear information about the 
importance of providing accurate information about pre-existing medical conditions. The 
following information is given on pages two and three. 
You have a duty to take reasonable care to answer questions fully and accurately, 
and that any information you give to us is not misleading. This applies both when 
you take the policy out and at any time during the policy period. If you do not do so, 
we reserve the right to void your policy from inception and refuse all claims made 
against it.
You must declare all existing medical conditions as well as any previous medical 
conditions which could have an impact on your current health. If you declare some 
existing conditions and not others your policy may be cancelled or treated as if it 
never existed and/or your claims may be rejected or not fully paid.
I appreciate Mr Ls reasoning around his expectation that URV should have taken more care 
due to Mrs L suffering with vascular dementia. However, URV was unaware of this, as the 
condition wasnt declared. So I dont think URV needed to do anything more.
Delays and service provided
Mr L complained about the way Mrs L was treated by URV, in particular the requirement to 
sign the disclaimer form. And said this caused delays as the treating hospital wouldnt 
confirm Mrs L as fit to fly until payment was made. He said otherwise she would have been 
allowed to fly sooner. 
Having reviewed the particular circumstances of this case, where Mrs Ls son was providing 
her with support, and given the high value of the claim, I think URVs request for Mrs L to 
sign a disclaimer was reasonable. I acknowledge Mr Ls point that the hospital may have confirmed Mrs L was fit to fly earlier, 
had it not been awaiting confirmation of payment. However, it would be unfair of me to hold 
URV responsible for the actions of the treating hospital.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against Union Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman