DRN-3963025
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Society of Lloyds have turned down his claim for damage to his
laptop. Any reference to Society of Lloyds (SOL) in this decision includes the underwriting
syndicate at Lloyds that underwrites Mr Ns policy and their agents.
What happened
Mr N dropped his laptop out of his backpack while he was out and it was damaged. He
called SOL to make a claim for it. He was originally told hed need to send some
photographs of the damage, proof of purchase and get a report from the manufacturer on
the damage and whether it could be repaired. And he was given the impression his claim
was likely to be accepted. However, SOL then declined his claim because Mr Ls laptop was
worth around £3,000 and he hadnt included it as a specified item under his policy. They
pointed out it is a condition of his policy that any item worth over £2,000 must be specified
for it to be covered whilst out of his home.
Mr N complained to SOL, but they rejected his complaint. So, he asked us to consider it.
One of our investigators did this. She said it should be upheld. This was because she
thought it fair and reasonable for SOL to pay Mr N up to the £2,000 policy limit for
unspecified items whilst out of the home.
Mr N agreed with our investigators view on his case. But SOL didnt agree. They said it
would not be fair and reasonable for them to have to pay Mr Ns claim up to £2,000, as
theyd have priced his policy differently if hed specified his laptop, as he should have done.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 February 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N is claiming under the section of his policy entitled Out of Home Cover for Personal
Items. This provides cover for personal items, which includes laptops, for, amongst other
things, accidental damage anywhere in the UK. There is a condition in this section of cover
which reads as follows:
You must specify any one item (including articles forming a pair or set) worth over £2,000.
So, it is clear that when Mr N bought his laptop, if he wanted it to be fully covered under this
section he needed to specify it to SOL through the policy administrator. And I agree with
SOL that he failed to comply with this condition. I also agree that if Mr N had done so, SOL
would have charged him a higher premium to provide cover for it.
However, I do not think the fact Mr N didnt specify his laptop should mean he gets nothing in
settlement of his claim. This is because he does have cover under his policy for personal
items, including laptops up to £2,000 anywhere in the UK. And I think it is reasonable for
someone to expect to be covered up to this amount for items they dont specify, irrespective
of their value. This doesnt mean I think Mr N didnt need to specify his laptop in view of its
value. But he did take out and pay to be covered for up to £2,000 for this type of item.
But it seems to me that Mr N should have had cover of £4,993 in total under the Out of
Home section; £2,993 for his laptop and £2,000 for other items he may take out with him. I
say this as he bought his laptop in July and paid this amount for it and he already had
£2,000 in cover under the Out of Home section at this time. And it was only early August
when his laptop was damaged. If hed done this his monthly premium would have been
higher to reflect this. And I think this means the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint is that what Mr Ns receives in settlement of his claim should reflect the fact that
he didnt pay enough in premium to provide the cover for it he really needed. This is what
might be best described as his claim being settled on a proportionate basis.
To do this SOL will need to work out what the revised monthly premium for Mr Ns policy
would have been if he had added his laptop with a sum insured of £2,993 when he bought it.
It should then compare the monthly premium he was actually paying and work out what
percentage this is of the premium he would have been paying if hed added his laptop. It
should then pay this percentage when settling his claim. For example, if Mr N had paid only
80% of the premium he would have paid if hed added his laptop, SOL would only need to
pay 80% of what would normally be due to him in settlement of his claim. If his laptop isnt
repairable SOL would need to work out the amount due under the proportionate settlement
and then apply the £2,000 limit under the Out of Home section.
I gave both parties until 15 February 2023 to respond to my provisional decision with further 
comments or evidence. 
Mr N has responded to say he agrees with the conclusion I reached. 
SOL has responded to say it doesnt agree and has made the following further comments:
1. They disagree with the view that a reasonable consumer would expect to be covered up 
to a limit for a high value item they did not specify, even if they have cover for other lower 
value items up to £2,000. Theyve gone on to say it is not just the policy document that is 
very clear that the policyholder needs to specify high value items they want to be 
covered out of their home. It is also the purchase journey and the policy update journey 
that are clear on this.
2. The concept that a policy should always pay out up to the limit, even if the customer did 
not select an optional part of the cover is not a position they think is fair. Specifically 
naming high value items is functionally a different thing. There is a risk difference to them 
between someone who has named a laptop at £3,000 and has cover for unnamed items 
of £2,000. The requirement to specifically declare high value items in order for them to 
be covered at all is there for a reason and is not just to determine cover levels. They 
have asked whether I think if hed chosen a higher cover level that Mr N should not be 
penalised at all for failure to comply with a policy term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ns 
complaint is as I set out in my provisional decision.
Dealing with SOLs further comments in turn:1. I do think it is possible that a policyholder who knows they need to specify items worth 
over £2,000 if they want them to be covered for their full value could think if they dont 
they will be covered up to £2,000. And I think its possible a policyholder could decide not 
to specify an item and expect to be covered up to the limit they have for items out of the 
home. And  from speaking to Mr N and what he did when his laptop was damaged  it 
is clear this is what he thought. I appreciate the policy terms state that items worth over 
£2,000 do need to be specified for them to be covered out of the home. But the policy 
terms do not state specifically that the policyholder wont get anything at all if they fail to 
do this. 
Mr N didnt have his laptop when he took out his policy and didnt have any other item he 
needed cover for out of the home worth over £2,000; so he had no reason to specify 
anything at this point. Mr N has explained that he didnt call to add his laptop when he 
bought it, as he thought it would be covered for up to £2,000, which he was happy with. 
And I think this was a reasonable assumption in the circumstances.  
2. I appreciate if Mr N had specified his laptop SOL would have known they were covering 
this item, as well us any number of other unspecified items worth up to £2,000. So, they 
would have had a different view on the risk they were insuring. And they would of course 
have charged a higher premium. And this is why I consider a proportionate settlement to 
Mr Ns claim is fair and reasonable. With this Mr N will not receive the full cost of the 
repair to his laptop, he will receive a percentage of it. This penalises him to some extent 
and reflects the fact he didnt pay enough premium for the risk he wanted to be covered.  
Putting things right
It therefore follows that for the reasons Ive explained, I consider the fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr Ns complaint is for SOL to settle his claim on a proportionate basis. To do 
this SOL will need to work out what the revised monthly premium for Mr Ns policy would 
have been if he had added his laptop with a sum insured of £2,993 when he bought it.
It should then compare this to the monthly premium he was actually paying and work out 
what percentage this is of the premium he would have been paying if hed added his laptop. 
It should then pay this percentage when settling his claim. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ns complaint and order Society of Lloyds to do what Ive set out above in the 
Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman