DRN-4179361
The complaint
Ms K complains that when she paid off her mortgage with The Governor and Company of 
the Bank of Ireland (BoI), her redemption statement didnt take account of her arrangement 
with BoI to pay a reduced monthly amount, so it wasnt enough to pay the mortgage off.
What happened
Ms K told us that she sold her house, to move in with family. She said shes physically and 
mentally disabled, and having to sell her house caused her a great deal of anxiety.
Ms K told us shed completed all the necessary paperwork with BoI to pay the interest only
on her mortgage, while her house was being sold. So from November 2021 to April 2022,
she was only paying BoI about £70 instead of around £320 per month. She said BoI hadnt
objected to this, so she assumed that was acceptable.
Ms K said when her mortgage was redeemed, BoI had asked her for the full amount of a
monthly payment she had missed. But Ms K said that wasnt what shed been paying. And
she said BoI held up the sale because of this, causing her further anxiety and a breakdown.
BoI said it was expecting the full monthly payment of £320.56 to be made at the end of April
2022, before Ms Ks sale completed. It had put together a redemption statement very early in
May, before it could actually confirm that this payment had been received. So it put together
that statement on the assumption that this payment had been made. But it said this payment
hadnt been made after all. So that meant there was a shortfall of this amount, when Ms K
paid the amount set out on the redemption statement. That was why BoI had asked her
solicitors to pay this before it would release the charge on the property and complete the
sale. BoI didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that when BoI put
together the redemption statement, it didnt know Ms K hadnt paid the amount due at the
end of April. That meant the amount BoI asked for, and Ms K then paid, wasnt quite enough
to clear the mortgage. So BoI asked for the outstanding £320.56. Our investigator didnt
think that was a mistake, and she didnt think BoI had to pay that back, just because Ms K
wasnt expecting to have to pay that.
Ms K didnt agree. She said she had completed all of the necessary paperwork, and BoI had 
agreed she could pay only the interest on her mortgage for a while, because she couldnt 
afford to live there any more and had moved in with family. She said that shed been making 
reduced payments since October 2021.
Ms K said that she had made a payment in April, but it wasnt for the full monthly payment
due on her mortgage, it was for a smaller amount of £70, to cover the interest on her
mortgage, as shed agreed with BoI. So she said even if she hadnt paid the full amount of
£320.56 owed, she should still have been charged less than this. She said BoI hadnt
allowed for the payment of £70 that she had made.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was
passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Before I start to look at the issues in Ms Ks mortgage redemption, I should say I can 
see that Ms K also complained BoI had held the wrong address for her, for some years. 
BoI said Ms K was too late to ask our service to look into this for her, and our 
investigator agreed. Ms K doesnt appear to me to have challenged this, so I wont 
consider that issue here.
When this case came to me, it wasnt clear that BoI had addressed the issue of the 
reduced payments Ms K had been making for some time before the house was sold. So 
I wrote to BoI to ask for more information on that.
BoI told us Ms K rang in September 2021 to say that she had put her house up for sale 
and was moving out. She told BoI a little about her ill health, and said she was having 
difficulties coping with day to day activities. The notes BoI took of that call say that Ms K 
wasnt able to go through the formal process of reducing her monthly payments on the 
call, and she wanted a family member who was supporting her, to deal with this for her.
I can see that BoI then wrote to Ms K, asking her to fill in a form which would mean her
family member could speak to it on her behalf. BoI also spoke to Ms K on 12 October, 
and she said she hadnt received this form. BoIs notes say this was sent out to her 
again on the same day. I cant see that BoI ever got the completed form back from Ms 
K. If Ms K hadnt returned this form, BoI wouldnt be able to talk to her family member 
directly about her mortgage. So I think its reasonable for BoI to have continued to talk to 
Ms K after this.
In November, Ms K did send some information for the income and expenditure 
assessment that BoI wanted her to do. This was reviewed by BoI, and it had some 
questions for Ms K to check whether she had any other income and expenditure that 
didnt appear on what shed sent so far. BoI tried to contact Ms K, but it didnt manage to 
speak to her about this. 
Ive looked at the evidence carefully, and I dont think there was ever a formal 
agreement in place with BoI for Ms K to make smaller monthly payments until her house 
was sold. And BoI was contacting Ms K regularly about the arrears on her mortgage, so 
it doesnt seem likely that BoI had told Ms K the smaller payment amount was fully 
agreed.
Although BoI did let Ms K know that her arrears were increasing, it doesnt appear to 
have taken any further enforcement action against Ms K. I think that was appropriate, as 
she was selling the property and had told BoI about the difficulties she had in dealing 
with this.
Ms K did then manage to sell her property. In early May, BoI issued a redemption 
statement. But that redemption statement assumed Ms K had made her full monthly 
payment of around £320 at the end of April. We know that she didnt pay this amount 
then, she hadnt been paying that for some time, so the redemption amount was wrong.
Ms K thought BoIs redemption statement hadnt taken account of the payment of £70 
that she made at the end of April. I asked BoI about this, and it said its redemption statement had allowed for this payment of £70. Ive seen the internal accounting for Ms 
Ks mortgage, and I can confirm that a payment made in late April, matching that I can 
see on the statements Ms K sent to us, was taken off her overall debt. So I think BoI has 
given Ms K full credit for the payment she made then.
I also asked BoI to explain why its redemption statement assumed Ms K had made her 
full monthly payment at the end of April, although she hadnt been paying this amount 
for some time. And BoI said that, because Ms K didnt have any formal agreement to 
reduce her monthly payment amount, it was still expecting her to pay her contractual 
monthly payment each month. It said this was brought to the attention of Ms Ks 
solicitors, because the redemption statement said 
This statement includes Direct Debit receipts for the sum of £320.56, received within
the last 5 days, and assumes payments will be honoured. If payments are not met,
we will not discharge the mortgage until the balance has been received to clear the
underpayment.
BoI said it can take up to five days for a monthly payment to credit to Ms Ks account. 
So unfortunately it didnt know that Ms K hadnt made her full April payment until after 
her redemption statement had been sent out.
Because I dont think that Ms K had actually reached any formal agreement with BoI to 
pay less each month, I think thats a reasonable explanation for whats happened here. I 
think its also important that BoI did tell Ms Ks solicitors the redemption statement 
assumed her full monthly payment had been made, and set out the amount of this 
expected payment.
Ms K complained that BoI then delayed her sale. I can see that when Ms K paid the
redemption statement amount, BoI then identified a shortfall of £320.56. BoI wrote to Ms 
K on 12 May to explain what had happened. Her solicitors queried this on 7 June, and 
BoI spoke to the solicitors on the phone on 14 June to explain. BoI also wrote again on 
15 June, saying it still hadnt received the shortfall.
Ms K then paid this requested amount on 15 June. On 1 July, BoI wrote to Ms K 
confirming that the charge had been released, and on 4 July, BoI wrote to Ms Ks 
solicitors to confirm the same.
I dont think it was unreasonable for BoI to ask Ms K to clear her mortgage in full before 
it would release the charge on her property, allowing the sale to go through. And I think 
BoI acted promptly to do that.
I know that Ms K wasnt expecting to have to make any further payment. I can see that 
there has been a misunderstanding here, because Ms K had thought the monthly 
payment that shed been making for some time was fully agreed with BoI, and she had 
also assumed it would complete her redemption statement on the basis of this smaller 
monthly payment. But I havent been able to see that this misunderstanding was BoIs 
fault. And I think it took reasonable and prompt steps to let Ms K know about this, and to 
make sure the mortgage was fully cleared, once it realised. I dont think that BoI has 
been unfair or unreasonable. So, although I know Ms K will be disappointed, I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman