DRN-2831187
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc decided not to cover cancellation claims which 
were caused by Covid-19.
What happened
Mr K took out an annual travel insurance policy online on 16 March 2020, through a broker. 
On 28 March 2020, he received an email from the broker which said that AXA wouldnt be 
covering any cancellation claims which were caused by Covid-19 on policies which were 
taken out after 3pm on 13 March 2020. Mr K called AXA to complain about this term on 14 
April 2020  which was a couple of weeks after the cooling-off period ended. On this basis, 
he wasnt entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms of the contract.
As the policy terms and conditions didnt specifically include a term excluding claims which 
were caused by Covid-19, Mr K asked us to look into his complaint. He felt AXA was 
retrospectively and unfairly re-underwriting his policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy 
included a specific term excluding cancellation cover for circumstances a policyholder knew 
about when taking out a policy which could reasonably be expected to lead to a claim. The 
World Health Organisation (WHO) had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 
2020. And the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised against all but essential 
travel to a number of countries before 16 March 2020. Additionally, some countries had also 
closed their borders and put in place travel restrictions before Mr K took out the policy. So 
the investigator felt it was most likely that Mr K had known about Covid-19 before he took out 
the insurance and that he was aware it could reasonably give rise to a claim.
The investigator also considered screenshots showing the brokers sales process. He felt 
these made it clear that AXA wouldnt cover Covid-19 related cancellation claims after 3pm 
on 13 March 2020.  Overall, he didnt think AXA had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed. Ive summarised his responses. He didnt think it was reasonable to suggest 
that all diseases which were categorised by the WHO as pandemics would constitute 
circumstances which could be expected to lead to a claim. He didnt think the UK 
government had given a travel warning at the time he took out the policy. He had been 
aware of Covid-19, but he questioned whether it was reasonably likely that someone would 
need to make a claim due to Covid-19. He stated he hadnt seen the Covid-19 exclusion on 
the brokers website and if he had, he wouldnt have taken out the policy.  And he said that 
at the time he bought the policy, the FCO hadnt advised against all travel, so he wouldve 
been covered by the policy if hed chosen to travel.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ks contract with AXA. 
In common with most other travel insurance policies on the market, Mr Ks policy with AXA 
doesnt cover circumstances a policyholder knew about when they bought the policy which 
may reasonably be expected to lead to a claim. 
Page 4 of the policy, which sets out details about the Insurance Contract says:
We do not cover certain things, such as, but not limited to:
Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance which could reasonably 
have been expected to lead to a claim will not be covered.
The cancellation section of the policy also includes a specific exclusion which says:
What is not covered
Circumstances known to you before you purchased your policy or at the time of booking any 
trip, which could reasonably have been expected to lead to cancellation or cutting short of 
the trip.
In my view, these terms make it clear that AXA wont pay for claims where a policyholder 
was aware of circumstances which might lead to a claim when they took out the policy. 
While I appreciate Covid-19 was later specifically referred to as a circumstance which AXA 
would consider to fall within the scope of this exclusion, I dont think this represented a re-
underwriting of the policy. So Ive considered whether I think Mr K ought to have been aware 
of circumstances which might lead to a claim when he took out the policy on 16 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the WHO declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. The FCO had advised 
against all but essential travel to China on 28 January 2020 and to Italy on 10 March 2020. 
Local restrictions had been put in place abroad and on 15 March 2020, the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel to Spain and the USA. Some counties had also begun to close 
their borders. Mr K accepts he knew about the pandemic and the actions taken by some 
other countries in response to it. I do acknowledge that the FCO didnt advise against all but 
essential travel to all destinations until 17 March 2020. But given the clear international 
impact on travel of the recognised pandemic and the guidance given by the FCO, Im 
satisfied that on 16 March 2020, Mr K ought to reasonably have been aware that his travel 
plans could be disrupted by Covid-19, even if he didnt think it was likely. So in these 
circumstances, I think he wouldve been aware of circumstances which could lead to a claim 
at the point he took out the policy.
Ive seen screenshots showing the information AXA says the broker gave Mr K about the 
Covid-19 cancellation exclusion (and setting out the exclusion Ive referred to above) during 
the policy sales process. This was set out clearly in a yellow information box, immediately 
above the eligibility and health criteria. The information was worded clearly and concisely 
and was written in an understandable way. While I appreciate Mr K says he didnt see this 
information, I think its more likely than not that the relevant screen did form part of the initial 
sales process. And that therefore, it was brought to Mr Ks attention.
Ive also noted, from what Mr Ks told us, that he was able to travel during the policy year. 
Therefore, I think the policy was likely of at least some benefit to him, even if it wouldnt have covered him for Covid-19 related claims. Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ks position, I 
think, on the specific facts of this case, AXA has treated him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman