DRN-2386599
The complaint
Ms D complains that Pi Financial Limited (Pi) did not provide her with suitable advice and 
she has suffered a financial loss as a result. She says that Pi have invested to receive 
commission and fees to her detriment.
Ms D is represented by Mr F in this complaint.
What happened
Ms D wished to move financial advisors and met with Pi in October and November 2016 to 
discuss her financial arrangements. Pi then sent a report to Ms D containing its investment 
advice. Ms D went ahead with the recommendations and Pi sold the investments that Ms D 
original held and re-invested the proceeds into the investments it had recommended.
Ms D had an annual review with Pi in 2017 to discuss the investments and Pi made several 
further recommendations regarding her financial position which Ms P approved. Pi also 
made suggestions to re-balance her portfolio and these were carried out. Attempts were 
made by Pi in 2018 and 2019 for annual reviews with Ms D but these were unsuccessful. 
In September 2019, Ms D complained to Pi to say that she was unhappy with the 
performance of her investments and said that she would have been better off leaving her 
money invested in the original investments. Ms D felt that she had been mis-lead and her 
investments had provided a source of income for Pis advisor. Ms D said that the advice that 
she had been given was not in her best interests but motivated by the interests of her 
advisor.
Pi investigated her complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. They said 
that they were satisfied that the advice was appropriate and met Ms Ds attitude to risk. They 
said that they could not be accountable for fluctuations in the market value of her portfolio 
and did not uphold her complaint.
Unhappy with Pis response, Ms D referred her complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators looked at her complaint. The investigator did not think that Pi had done 
anything wrong or that the advice given to Ms D was unsuitable. The investigator did not 
uphold the complaint. Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms D has asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D but I wont be upholding her complaint. I understand that Ms D 
and her representative Mr F feel strongly about the complaint and I will explain why I have 
arrived at this decision.
The complaint is about the initial advice provided, the performance of the investments 
recommended, and the fees incurred by Ms D. The service can look at complaints about the 
suitability of advice and whether the fees and charges were properly disclosed. The service 
cant look at the performance of investments or how much a business charges so I will look 
at the suitability of advice and if the charges were properly disclosed.
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial objectives.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
This fact find exercise was conducted in 2016 and Ms D gave Pi information which allowed 
them to produce investment advice to her. I will cover off each of these areas in turn.
personal circumstances and experience
I have read the fact find questionnaire that Pi completed. They have captured Ms Ds 
personal circumstances including her income and outgoings and assets held. Ms Ds 
financial commitments are also captured here. Ms Ds income exceeded her expenditure 
and appeared to live within her means. It was noted that there were no likely changes 
predicted in the future. Ms D also had cash savings with several providers and these could 
be called upon in the case of emergency. It was noted that Ms Ds capacity for loss was 
higher than her attitude to risk.
I can see that Pi have asked questions to find out what sort of experience Ms D had in 
relation to investments. In the questionnaire, Pi have noted that Ms D has previously 
obtained advice on savings accounts, bonds and ISAs. It is also noted that Ms D has a 
reasonable knowledge of investments having previously purchased investments.
Having reviewed the questionnaire, I think that it is a comprehensive summary of Ms Ds 
personal circumstances and experience and in line with what I would expect an advisor to 
record.
In his submission to the service, Mr F has said that due to her age, Ms D should have been 
classified as a vulnerable client. Whilst it could be argued that someones age could be an 
indication of vulnerability, Pi did not consider Ms Ds age to be highlighted and consideration 
given to adapting the service to take account of Ms Ds age. The FCA have provided advice 
to the industry on this subject and list four drivers which may indicate vulnerability. I note that 
age is not one of these drivers. Capability and low knowledge of financial matters is a 
vulnerability driver, but Im satisfied that Ms D had some knowledge of financial matters 
through previously held investments.
attitude to risk 
The report that was completed after the fact find and sent to Ms D records her attitude to risk 
as cautious. This is categorised as:
These funds are intended for investors who want a return above that of cash/deposits 
accounts over the longer term and are willing to place some of their investments into assets 
that will expose them to fluctuations in capital value. The investments should be exposed to 
a lower level of risk which an emphasis on secure consistent growth with a bias towards 
lower risk assets. The investments will have the potential for capital fluctuation but with 
sufficient risk to deliver growth over the medium termIt was noted in the report that Ms D was comfortable with the outcome and the classification. 
I think that the attitude to risk classification is important in this complaint as I believe that it 
was the reason that Pi sold the investments that Ms D held with the previous advisor. In the 
report that was sent to Ms D, Pi have recorded the following:
The funds held in no way meet your current attitude to risk 
Invest for further capital growth in a portfolio of Dimension funds aligned with your risk 
profile 
To maintain the tax favoured status of the ISA monies and to have the potential for further 
growth on the overall capital invested by using a Dimension model portfolio that is aligned 
with your personal risk profile where you will benefit from portfolio rebalancing and our 
ongoing servicing proposition 
When assessing if advice was suitable to Ms D I need to consider if the recommendations 
that were made took into account her personal circumstances and financial objectives. When 
reviewing the financial report, I think that Pi have acted on the information that Ms D has 
provided in respect of attitude to risk. This is a key area when providing advice as the 
investments that are recommended need to align with the consumers own preference on 
how much risk they are willing to take.
It appears that some of the investments that were held with Ms Ds previous advisor were 
higher than her current attitude to risk. Pi sold these investments and re-invested the 
proceeds into investments that were suited to her current attitude to risk. I dont think that Pi 
have done anything wrong here and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
In her letter to the service, Ms D complained that she would have been better off had the 
initial investment had been retained as this would have out-performed the investments that 
Pi recommended. I sympathise with Ms D on this point but as I have said previously, the 
service cant look at complaints that involve performance. From the evidence available to me 
for review, I am not persuaded that Pi have provided unsuitable advice. They have provided 
advice based on the information that Ms D has provided and recommended investments that 
they believed matched Ms Ds attitude to risk. Although the performance of the investments 
that Pi recommended have been disappointing, I cant hold Pi responsible for market 
fluctuations.
Ms Ds complains about the fees that she has been charged and believes that the advisor 
placed transactions in order to generate fees and commission. In his submission to the 
service, Mr F has said that proceeds were not invested but churned. I have previously said 
that the service cant look at the level of fees that a business charge but whether the fees 
were appropriately disclosed.
Pi have enclosed details about the charges and fees that were payable by Ms D for using 
the service in their report to her. These were also included in the Letter of Engagement. I 
can see that Pi listed initial charges called the adviser fee and annual charges including an 
adviser fee, Platform Fee and a model portfolio charge.
Pi also prepared an illustration for Ms D which showed what she might get back if her 
investment performed under different growth conditions. This illustration also included the 
effect of charges and how it may affect the growth of her investment. I believe that the 
charges and fees were properly disclosed to Ms D and in line with what I would expect to 
see. I dont think that Pi have done anything wrong here and Im not going to ask them to do 
anything else.Regarding any allegation of churning, I have seen no evidence that transactions have been 
placed for the sole purpose of generating adviser fees. I believe that the transactions have 
been placed to align the portfolio to Ms Ds attitude to risk and subsequent rebalancing. 
Mr F has written to the service following the investigators view and I have read his 
comments and the challenges. I want to assure Ms D and Mr F that I have considered all 
they have said but I think that the advice provided to Ms D was suitable. It is unfortunate that 
the performance of the recommended investments has fallen compared to her previous 
investments, but the future value was not guaranteed, and Ms D was made aware of this.
Mr F has said that as Ms D is now 75, she should be classified as a vulnerable client. It is 
difficult for me to offer any opinion on this as I have not met Ms D. Looking through the file, I 
can see that Ms D did say that she had to travel for her appointments with Pi and she 
referenced her age. I dont know what alternative arrangements Pi could have made in 
subsequent meetings as they were unable to contact Ms D in 2018 and 2019.
In summary, I think that the advice provided to Ms D was suitable and aligned to her 
personal circumstances. I think that the fees and charges that were applied to Ms Ds 
portfolio were properly disclosed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman