DRN-1557986
The complaint
Ms D complains about how she was treated by Santander UK Plc after cash shed paid in 
failed to credit her account straightaway. Shes also unhappy Santander applied a default to 
her credit file. 
What happened
Ms D visited her local Santander branch to deposit cash into her account. She said no staff 
were available at the counter, so she had to use a self-service machine. But due to an error 
with the machine the funds did not credit her account straightaway.
After speaking to a member of staff, Ms D was told the incident would need to be logged and 
an investigation completed. Ms D asked to speak to the branch manager and disputed this. 
She told him she needed the funds for that weekend and when shed seen errors occur 
previously, staff closed the branch and accessed the machine immediately to retrieve funds.
Ms D called Santander to complain but found their advisor unhelpful. She was also at her 
place of work and had to serve a customer, so the call ended. After investigating, Santander 
said theyd followed the correct process, and Ms Ds funds were credited to her account after 
the machine was checked the following morning. They were satisfied the branch had done 
everything possible to help her and that their staff had not been rude. 
The following day Ms D returned to the branch. She needed to make another deposit into 
her account but whilst in the queue, the branch manager approached her to say she wouldnt 
be served due to her attitude the previous day. Ms D left the branch and called Santander 
again to complain further about how shed been treated. After speaking to the branch 
manager, the advisor told her Santander were no longer willing to offer her banking facilities 
and that her account would be closed.
Ms D brought her complaint to our service but after looking into her concerns our investigator 
didnt think it should be upheld. He thought the branch correctly followed Santanders 
process by investigating the error with their machine and thought theyd acted fairly in doing 
so. He could see Ms Ds account had been credited early the following day.
Our investigator said it was difficult for him to comment on the face-to-face conversations 
which had happened in the branch. But he listened to the calls Ms D had made to Santander 
and he felt both advisors had demonstrated patience and listened to the details of her 
complaint. He said Santander had made a commercial decision to close her account and 
they were entitled to do so. 
Ms D disagreed with our investigators view and asked for a final decision. She also let us 
know Santander had since registered a default on her credit file. She was unhappy how 
Santander could justify such a heavy punishment after treating her so badly and wanted 
them to remove it. 
As wed not previously addressed the default matter, I let Ms D and Santander know my 
initial thoughts. And I invited them to provide any further comment or evidence they wanted 
me to consider. I said Santander had a responsibility to report accurately to credit reference 
agencies on how an account has been managed. And that I felt Santander had acted fairly in 
registering the default against Ms Ds credit file. 
Santander said that after Ms D switched her account to a third party, there was an 
overdrawn balance outstanding. Santander sent Ms D several letters requesting her to repay 
the debt followed by a notice of their intention to register a default. But when Ms D didnt 
repay the debt or get in contact, they proceeded to register the default. 
Ms D said shes always been willing and keen to repay the debt, but Santander had made it 
impossible for her to do so. She said shed tried to transfer funds from a third-party account 
to repay the debt, but the money was returned to her and she had no other method of 
making the payment. She also said calling Santander, or visiting a branch wasnt an option 
for her after the humiliating experience shed endured, and she didnt think theyd register a 
default whilst her complaint was ongoing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand Ms D strongly believes Santanders branch staff could have accessed their 
machine and credited her account with her missing funds immediately. Issues with bank 
machines do happen from time to time. And I accept its frustrating and an inconvenience for 
a customer to be affected by such a problem. Santander say they followed their internal 
process for dealing with issues like this. So, Ive looked to see if their process was followed 
correctly and if the staff acted fairly when doing so in the circumstances of this case.
Ive seen evidence about Santanders process. They ask their branch staff to log and 
investigate any incidents of this nature when they occur. Staff are then asked to advise the 
customer they will be in contact once they have completed their investigation, the next 
working day. 
I can see staff acted promptly, accessing their machine as soon as possible outside of 
business hours. Ms Ds funds were located and credited to her account early the following 
day. And whilst I cant see Santander contacted Ms D, she contacted them the following day 
and was advised during the call that the funds were available on her account.
So, Im satisfied the staff followed the process correctly. And due to the high volumes of 
cash stored within their machines and the security risks involved when the branch is open to 
the public, I think they acted fairly by following the process in place. 
What happened thereafter remains in dispute. And its difficult for me to comment on what 
was said during the face-to-face conversations between Ms D and members of the branchs 
staff, when no independent evidence is available to support either partys account. Ms D 
feels the branch managers attitude towards her was appalling. The branch manager was 
unhappy with Ms D behaviour and attitude toward him and other members of staff. I can 
understand Ms Ds frustrations about her deposit not crediting her account straight away. 
And Ms D acknowledges she wasnt happy after finding out there had been an error with the 
machine. Following the dispute, Santander made the decision to withdraw its banking services. The terms and conditions do allow Santander to close an account where they 
consider a customers behaviour has been unacceptable. But in any event, Ms D decided to 
switch her account following the incident. So Im not going to comment any further on this 
aspect.
Ive next considered if Santander applied the default to Ms Ds account correctly and if they 
acted fairly when doing so. And after taking into consideration the evidence available to me, I 
think they did.
After switching her account to a third-party bank Ms Ds Santander account was left with an 
overdrawn balance. Ive reviewed a total of ten letters sent by Santander to Ms D between 
June 2019 and December 2019 requesting she repay the outstanding amount owed to them. 
When no payment was received, I can see Santander sent Ms D a further letter notifying her 
of their intention to register a default.
I understand Ms D feels she couldnt have contacted Santander or visited one of their 
branches due to the way shed been treated. Ms D has told us she didnt think the default 
would be applied whilst her original complaint was ongoing. But the letters were clear about 
what she needed to do and the importance of taking action. 
The letters Santander sent to Ms D provided her with alternative methods of how she could 
make the payment, for example by debit card or by cheque. Whilst I understand Ms D does 
not hold a cheque book, the option to call Santander to make the payment using her debit 
was available. 
Santander also suggested in their letters Ms D should call them to discuss how they could 
help her if she was having difficulties paying. However, I cant see she did that until after 
finding out a default had been registered against her credit file when she called and asked if 
it could be removed.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Ds attempts to transfer funds from her account with a third-
party, specifically that she was told to do so by a member of Santander staff prior to the 
second attempt. But it doesnt change my decision.
I can understand Ms D may feel misled, having been told to do this, but the letters she 
received from Santander set out clearly the options available to her. They said she should 
not transfer funds via online or mobile banking from a third-party account. This was due to 
the account switcher service Ms D had instructed her new bank to complete, meaning the 
funds would be redirected back to her new account. Ms D was aware the funds had 
recredited her third-party account, so Im satisfied she knew the debt remained outstanding 
and payment still needed to be made. 
Banks have a responsibility to accurately report to the credit reference agencies how an 
account has been managed. Santander allowed Ms D six months to repay the outstanding 
debt, sending her multiple reminders and warning letters throughout. And they told her what 
the consequences of not clearing the balance could be. So, I dont think they acted unfairly 
by applying the default to Ms Ds account when they did.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing to Ms D who feels very strongly about the initial 
problem with the bank machine. But having considered her points carefully, I dont think 
Santander have acted unfairly, so I wont be asking them to remove the default or do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman