DRN-2968728
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc failed to refund several transactions he didnt 
recognise that were made from his credit card account.
What happened
Mr L received a fraud text on his phone and spoke with Sainsburys about several 
transactions. Three large transactions had left his account, each with a second charge 
related to an advance money fee. These transactions had been made to an online gambling 
merchant - who Ill refer to as M. Mr L told Sainsburys that he didnt recognise any of them 
and hadnt used his new credit card for six to twelve months. In the call Mr L said hed had 
his old card stolen on the previous New Years Eve. Mr L also told Sainsburys that hed 
recently lost his bag with his tablet device in it, and had made a report about the loss, which 
was the day before the disputed transactions occurred. The call handler asked Mr L why he 
hadnt told them earlier about the loss. Mr L said he hadnt realised his Sainsburys credit 
card was in the bag and the delay in making the report was due to a slow response by the 
police. Mr Ls credit card was cancelled and a new one issued.
Sainsburys asked M for information about the account the payments were made to, but M 
required a specific authorisation from Sainsburys. The request didnt get authorised for 
about ten months. M provided evidence that linked Mr L to the transactions  they recorded 
that an account in Mr Ls name had been opened the previous year prior to the theft of his 
original credit card. The details M had matched those that the bank had, including the 
name/address/email address/phone number and related Internet Protocol (IP) address. The 
IP address records details related to the location of services connected with the internet  in 
this case the details of where the credit card was used to make the purchases from. M also 
said that the transactions used additional authentication (3D Secure) to confirm the 
payments and the gambling account had been suspended. 
Mr L had also told Sainsburys that hed had his car stolen, which contained some of his 
devices and Sainsburys subsequently contacted the police about it. They told Sainsburys 
that the incident they were dealing with wasnt related to the loss of Mr Ls card. Based on all 
the information theyd obtained; Sainsburys believed Mr L was responsible for the 
transactions and declined to refund him. Sainsburys wrote to Mr L and asked him if he had 
any evidence to appeal the decision. Mr L replied and denied any knowledge of a fraud claim 
but mentioned the brief conversation hed had about the unrecognised transactions which 
had happened quite some time ago.
Sainsburys then wrote to Mr L and told him that his account was closed and asked for the 
outstanding balance to be repaid. Sainsburys didnt enter the disputed transactions onto Mr 
Ls account until they received a response from M the following year. It was at that point they 
re-issued the statements and included the disputed transactions. Mr L was unable to access 
his online statements once his account was closed. Sainsburys later supplied copies of the 
statements to Mr L and accepted that theyd failed to switch the account to paper statements 
after the online access was stopped. Sainsburys explained to Mr L that theyd sent letters 
outlining the outstanding balance, so they believed he was aware that there was a debt. 
Sainsburys removed the interest and charges for the period that Mr L was without 
statements and offered Mr L £50 for the lack of service.
Mr L continued to deny that hed made the payments and Sainsburys maintained their view 
that they believed Mr L was responsible for the payments and declined to refund him.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service and said that he didnt remember receiving a new 
card after his wallet was stolen on New Years Eve. He denied opening the account with M 
but said he might have had one some years ago. Mr L told our investigator that his card may 
have been intercepted and that hed been subject to other identity fraud attempts.
Mr L also explained that hed lost his tablet and phone, both of which were unlocked. Our 
investigator thought that Mr L was more than likely responsible for the transactions  he 
concluded that the account with M was set up prior to the loss of any of Mr Ls cards and it 
was unlikely that a fraudster would use a stolen card to make payments on an account with 
M that was in Mr Ls name. He also thought there were some inconsistencies with Mr Ls 
version of the events. 
Mr L disagreed with the outcome and made numerous points he wanted taken into 
consideration. Mr L thought that what had happened had been misunderstood and said he 
was never told about the large transactions leaving his account and he didnt have any 
evidence that his card was replaced after the loss on New Years Eve. Mr L thought that 
Sainsburys had spoken to the wrong police force because he never reported the loss of his 
bag to them.
Mr L explained that he hadnt received replies from Sainsburys to many of his requests for 
information about their investigation and he hadnt had access to any statements throughout 
the process. Mr L clarified that he wasnt sure his card was in his bag that was lost just prior 
to the disputed transactions because he cant remember ever receiving it.
Mr L complained that Sainsburys had taken too long to investigate his situation and theyd 
failed to identify these payments as unusual because he rarely used this particular card. Mr 
L has said this situation has caused him stress and happened at a time when he was still 
dealing with the loss a close family member.
Mr L thought that Sainsburys had failed to meet its obligations under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017)  specifically sections 54,59,72,73,74,75,77,79,80,100,101 
and sections 13.1.1,13.1.2 & 16.2 of the Credit Agreement.
Mr L wanted his complaint reviewed and its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to acknowledge the additional points that Mr L has made and confirm that Ive 
considered them, alongside the regulations that hes referred to. My role is an independent 
and impartial one and Im going to focus on what I feel the crux of the complaint is. In doing 
so, I wont be responding to each and every point Mr L has made, even though he may wish 
me to  but thats in line with our role as a quick and informal service.
In doing so, the key consideration in respect of the regulations is whether Sainsburys can 
hold Mr L liable for the transactions. Ill also address the handling of the investigation by Sainsburys. As Mr L has pointed out, the relevant law surrounding authorisations are the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017. Credit card transactions are also covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Sainsburys can hold Mr L liable for the 
disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made them 
or authorised them. 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Sainsburys have supplied evidence that shows the correct card details were used to make 
the transactions. In this case, Im satisfied the evidence shows all the disputed transactions 
were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Sainsburys and Mr L agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the card details on a merchants website, Sainsburys 
agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the cardholder or 
another approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The transactions in this case 
used the genuine card details and a secondary level of security called 3D Secure to confirm 
the payment, so Im satisfied that consent was given and the disputed transactions were 
authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be appropriate for Sainsburys to hold 
Mr L responsible, for example if the card was used without his permission.
During a New Years Eve celebration, Mr Ls wallet was stolen which contained his original 
Sainsburys credit card and he notified Sainsburys about this. Sainsburys reported that they 
replaced the original card and dispatched it to Mr Ls home address shortly after. There were 
no reports of postal issues and Im not aware of any other problems that would have 
prevented the new credit card from being delivered to Mr L. So, Im satisfied the card was 
despatched to Mr Ls home address. 
About five months later, Mr L lost his bag on a train journey and reported it through an online 
portal the day before the disputed transactions were made. The bag contained an unlocked 
tablet device with Mr Ls banking details on it, and it also contained his passport. When Mr L 
received a text about the unrecognised transactions, the Sainsburys call handler asked Mr L 
why he hadnt reported the loss of the tablet to them earlier (presumably because Mr L said 
it contained banking details). Mr L told the call handler that he didnt realise his new (credit) 
card was in the bag that was stolen at the time.
By the time that Mr L had lost his tablet on the train, hed suffered two previous incidents of 
theft/loss of his personal items and believed hed been subject to attempts of identity theft. I 
think Mr L would have been more than aware of the potential risk he was under when he lost 
his tablet containing his banking details and his passport. I would have thought hed have 
reported this loss to all the banks he had accounts with, in order to prevent any unauthorised 
use of them and give the banks an opportunity to protect his funds. Mr L has said that he 
was waiting for a response from the police, which explained the delay in making a report to 
the online portal, but this was only to report the loss of his bag and not to report the loss to 
Sainsburys.
Mr L later explained that he was never sure he ever received his new card and there was no 
evidence given to him that proved it was safely delivered. When I listened to the first call Mr 
L had with Sainsburys, he described the card as his new card and explained the 
circumstances of the original cards loss. So, it appears in that call that Mr L believed hed 
received the new card, otherwise I dont think he wouldve referred to it in that way. So, I 
think its likely that Mr L received his new card. Mr L stated that he was never made aware of 
the large transactions that left his account but having listened to the original call Mr L had 
with Sainsburys, the call handler goes through the unrecognised transactions including the 
larger ones. So, I think it would have been clear during that call, that there were numerous unrecognised transactions made from Mr Ls account. But, Sainsburys delayed any further 
investigation for a considerable time and didnt apply the charges to Mr L's credit card, so I 
can understand why Mr Ls recollection may have faded over time. 
The disputed transactions took place over five months after the original card was replaced 
and there was no other use of the card during that period. I think it unlikely that if Mr Ls card 
was stolen by an unknown third party, they would wait for such a long time to use the card. 
Of course, it could have been lost during this period and found later, but I dont think thats 
the likely explanation because the disputed transactions were made using an account in Mr 
Ls name. 
M sent Sainsburys the information they held about the transactions and which account they 
were linked to. The information they sent Sainsburys included Mr Ls name, home address, 
email address, date of birth, mobile phone number and related IP address activity. They told 
Sainsburys that the account was set up prior to the loss of Mr Ls first card, some six months 
earlier. Ive thought about a likely scenario where Mr Ls card could be lost and then used to 
make transactions on an account that matched Mr Ls, particularly when Mr L has denied 
setting up such an account at that time. There doesnt seem to be a plausible explanation for 
how an unknown third party who obtained Mr Ls card, could then find out about this 
account, including the security details needed to log in to the merchants website. 
There are also other, simpler ways, to use someones card details to steal their money, 
rather than with a gambling merchant that would likely pay any winnings back to the card 
they came from. There would be no guarantee that the unknown third party would be able to 
use those funds because they wouldnt know when the card would be blocked. So, I dont 
think these transactions were made by an unknown third party.
M provided IP address data that matched the records held by Sainsburys for Mr L, this 
means that both the merchant and the bank reported the same IP address data. It doesnt 
seem likely that someone other than Mr L could use the same IP address that was recorded 
by both Sainsburys and M.  
M also confirmed the transactions were carried out with additional authentication, in this 
case the 3D Secure system. This is an additional layer of authentication and is linked to the 
account holder and the means of payment (Mr Ls credit card), usually through either an app, 
email address or phone. The records that M held for these transactions were all linked to Mr 
L, so it seems likely that any additional authorisation that M carried out was sent to a device 
or account registered to Mr L. I realise that this will be a difficult message for Mr L to hear, 
but the evidence Ive considered leads me to conclude that I think it was more likely than not 
that Mr L was responsible for the transactions hes disputed. 
Mr L thought that Sainsburys should have notified him about these transactions because 
they were unusual. In the context of how the account was used Id agree with him and 
Sainsburys did issue a warning text after the transactions had been made. But, as Ive made 
a finding that I think Mr L was more than likely responsible for making these transactions, he 
wouldve been aware of the payments leaving his account and any warning issued by 
Sainsburys would only confirm information he already knew. 
Mr L was critical of how Sainsburys dealt with the investigation and when Ive reviewed how 
it was handled, Sainsburys failed to pursue their investigation for about ten months. It was 
only once the authority was provided to approach M and they responded, that the 
investigation was concluded. I asked Sainsburys why they delayed their investigation, but 
they could offer no explanation. During this period, they left the disputed transactions off Mr 
Ls statements. Sainsburys did recognise that once they blocked Mr Ls account, his online 
access to statements was also blocked. They later provided paper copies of historical statements, including the newly added disputed transactions. Sainsburys did explain that 
they were writing every two months to Mr L about his debt, so they believed he was aware 
that they were holding him responsible for the outstanding monies.
Sainsburys offered Mr L £50 for the lack of statements and removed any interest and 
charges during this period. Because Ive made a finding that I think Mr L was more than 
likely responsible for the disputed transactions, it follows that he also knew the debt was 
repayable to Sainsburys. So, whilst I recognise that Sainsburys failed to carry out a timely 
investigation, it doesnt change the responsibility owed by Mr L to repay the outstanding 
debt. I think that Sainsburys offer for £50 with the removal of the interest and charges was a 
reasonable way to deal with this situation and I wont be asking them to change this.
In summary, Mr L disputed several transactions on his credit card. Hes explained he cant 
remember receiving the new one and some five months later there are disputed transactions 
on his account. These happened shortly after losing a bag that may or may not have 
contained Mr Ls credit card. The transactions were linked to an account in Mr Ls name that 
was set up before any of his cards or personal details were stolen. Taking everything into 
account  I dont think theres a plausible explanation why anyone other than Mr L would use 
the card to make payments to an account that was in his name. So, I think its reasonable for 
Sainsburys to hold Mr L liable for the transactions and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
David Perry
Ombudsman