DRN-3971660
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about a second charge mortgage she has with Evolution Money 
Limited. She says the loan was unaffordable and considers Evolution lent irresponsibly as it 
inappropriately took money she received from other people living in her property into account 
when assessing the affordability of a loan secured on her home.
What happened
At the time of the sale Evolution went through Miss Gs circumstances and her finances. Her 
income from her job, and the contributions made to the household by her partner and a 
relative that were living with her were confirmed. It was explained that she had for a period 
been caring for another relatives children without any financial support, so shed run up debt 
on credit cards. The children were no longer living with her, and she had arranged a debt 
management plan for the credit card debt. She wanted money for home improvements and 
to consolidate the credit card debt. 
Evolution told Miss G that it wouldnt lend her the money to consolidate the credit card debts. 
This was because she wasnt paying interest in the debt management plan, but would be if 
she consolidated the debt. However, it agreed to lend her the money she wanted for home 
improvements. It completed an affordability calculation taking account of the household and 
Miss Gs expenditure, her earned income and the money her partner contributed to the 
household. It was explained by the adviser that he hadnt taken the money being paid by a 
relative into account as it had only been being paid for a few months, and Evolution usually 
didnt take such payments into account unless theyd been received for at least six months. 
The affordability check showed that the loan was affordable, and Miss G would be left with 
about £140 disposable income each month. Miss G was told how much the loan would cost 
her and asked if she could afford that amount. She confirmed that she could. Subsequently, 
Evolution asked Miss G for evidence of income and outgoings, including the money she was 
receiving from her partner. 
Miss G took a loan with Evolution in late 2020 for a little under £20,000 (including fees) and 
a term of eight years. The monthly payment was £388.24.
Miss G complained to Evolution in December 2021. Following this Evolution spoke to Miss G 
to discuss her circumstances and see if it could assist her. She explained that she had split 
up from her partner, her relative had moved out and her medical situation had necessitated 
her taking a new job with a reduced salary, and so her income overall had reduced. An 
income and expenditure exercise was done, which identified that Miss Gs income was 
around £300 less than her monthly outgoings. Evolution put a hold on the account to allow 
Miss G some breathing space to explore if she qualified for any benefits or other financial 
assistance.
Evolution responded to the complaint in a letter dated 17 January 2022. It explained the 
process it went through before a loan was agreed and this included an assessment of 
affordability. Based on the information Miss G gave it, it was established that the loan was 
affordable. Evolution was satisfied that it had taken reasonable steps to ensure affordability, 
as it was required to do by the Regulator. 
In relation to taking account of the money Miss G received from others living in her home, 
Evolution said that this was discussed when it asked about other sources of income. It said it 
had been aware that the money she was receiving from a relative was not a long-term 
arrangement, although she didnt know when it would stop and so some of it was included in 
the affordability calculation. However, it pointed out that Miss G was receiving significantly 
more from her partner in an average month than the total for other incomes it had used to 
assess affordability. As such, Evolution was satisfied that if the income from the relative 
stopped, there were funds available to cover that shortfall.
Evolution also highlighted that Miss G was made aware of the details of the loan, including 
the monthly payment, the interest rate and the total payable over the term before she went 
ahead with the application. In addition, it commented that, based on what Miss G had told it 
at the time the complaint was made, the reason the loan was unaffordable was because of 
changes to her circumstances after the loan started, rather than the original assessment of 
her circumstances being wrong. It commented that it had asked her if she anticipated any 
changes to her circumstances before the loan was granted, and shed said no.
Miss G wasnt satisfied with Evolutions response and asked us to look into her complaint. 
One of our investigators did, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
Miss G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and told her that shed had to start 
running up credit again when the money she received from her relative stopped. She said 
that she disagreed that it was reasonable for her ex-partners and relatives contributions to 
the household to be taken into account, as they werent guaranteed sources of income. 
Miss G asked where the remaining money she apparently had left was, as she barely had 
£100 left in her account and that was before paying the Evolution loan.
The investigator considered what Miss G had said, but it didnt change her conclusions. 
Miss G asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2023, which set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly confirm that the £200 she received each month from her relative wasnt taken 
into account when affordability was assessed. This was confirmed in the initial conversation 
Miss G had with Evolution and, having reviewed the income information contained in the 
income and expenditure assessment from the time, only the £600 from Miss Gs partner is 
detailed as additional income to her paid employment. So I am satisfied that the income from 
the relative was not used in the affordability assessment.
When an application is made to borrow money, the lender must assess whether the 
borrower can afford the repayments. This secured loan is a regulated mortgage contract, 
which means the provisions in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) apply. MCOB requires a lender to assess whether the customer will be 
able to repay the sums borrowed and interest. To do that the lender must take account of the 
income of the customer and their committed and basic essential expenditure. 
I am satisfied that Evolution made such an assessment. Included in the assessment was the 
money she received from her partner. That individual was at the time of the sale living 
permanently in the property, was in a relationship with Miss G and contributing to the 
household expenses. That money affected Miss Gs own contributions to the household 
expenses and as a result, the amount of disposable income she had to spend on improving her home. As such, I dont consider it was inappropriate for Evolution to take Miss Gs 
partners contribution into account when assessing affordability in these circumstances.
Having listened to the discussions in 2020 and reviewed the income and expenditure 
assessment completed, I am not persuaded the loan was unaffordable at the time. Indeed, 
Miss G managed to pay it for a year before this changed. When it did, she confirmed that the 
reasons she couldnt afford it was that due to a medical situation shed had to take a job with 
reduced hours, that resulted in a reduction in her income. In addition, shed also split up from 
her partner and he had ceased contributing to the household expenses. As such, I am 
satisfied that the lack of affordability toward the end of 2021 wasnt caused by Evolution 
lending irresponsibly, but rather due to changes in Miss Gs circumstances and I cant find 
that the lending decision was wrong or irresponsible.
I note that Evolution and Miss G are talking, and I am glad to see that she is being open with 
it about her situation. Evolution initially determined that Miss G wasnt able to pay anything 
toward the loan and it put a hold on the account and encouraged her to seek advice to see if 
she was entitled to any benefits or help from elsewhere, as I would expect it to be. I would 
encourage Miss G to continue the dialogue with Evolution and would remind it that it needs 
to do what it can to assist Miss G, and that it should explore the full range of options to assist 
her, including actions to stop the debt spiralling while there is limited or no affordability.
Evolution confirmed that it had nothing further to add and accepted my conclusions.
Miss G didnt accept my conclusions. She reiterated that Evolution had acted irresponsibly 
when it had lent to her and highlighted the fact that she was in a debt management plan at 
the time showed she wasnt managing her money before the loan was applied for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have again reviewed all of the information from the time of the sale, but Miss Gs further 
comments havent made me change my conclusions that Evolution didnt lend irresponsibly. 
Evolution was aware that of Miss Gs debt management plan, but based on her explanation 
of how the debts involved came about, I am not persuaded it could reasonably be taken to 
indicate that she wasnt managing her money at the time of the sale. Indeed, the explanation 
she gave made it clear that the cause of the debt had been short-term, resolved many 
months earlier and her finances had improved and stabilised thereafter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 
22 March 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman