DRN-4236054
The complaint
Miss O says Skyfire Insurance Company Limited increased the price of her motor insurance 
policy unreasonably and provided poor service.
What happened
Miss O says she bought the policy as it was the cheapest available. Skyfire then noted a 
claim it thought she hadnt declared, so it increased the premium and charged a £50 admin 
fee. It also noted that shed provided the wrong details of her no claims discount (NCD), of 
her mileage and of the date she got her driving licence. It said it didnt think shed misled it 
deliberately, so it offered to continue with the policy. But Miss O said it was now 
unaffordable. She said she was unable to pay the cancellation charge, so Skyfire waived it. It 
also said it would waive the extra premium, in order to resolve the complaint. 
One of our investigators told Miss O she thought Skyfire had acted reasonably in increasing 
the premium, and later in waiving the cancellation charge and the extra premium. She noted 
that as Miss O had given it the wrong date for the claim, Skyfire thought shed made two 
claims. The premium didnt reduce when the first claim (on the wrong date) was deleted, 
because Skyfire hadnt charged for it when Miss O bought the policy. But the correct date for 
that one claim was within the previous three years, and claims made in that period are rated. 
Miss O said she should only have to pay £100 in total for cover, so she wanted a refund of 
any sum shed paid over that amount. She said the increased premium had meant she 
couldnt pay other bills, which had led to her bankruptcy. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Miss Os complaint in part, as summarised below:
I thought it was reasonable for Skyfire to increase the premium when it established 
the true facts. Although Miss O didnt think the changed date of the one incident on 
her record should make a difference, I thought Skyfire had explained why it did. I 
noted that Miss O felt that shed been treated like a criminal, which I thought was due 
to the fact that Skyfires fraud team investigated the matter. But she wasnt accused 
of fraud, and I thought Skyfire was entitled to decide how to run its investigations
I didnt think it was reasonable for Miss O to ask to be charged only £100 for the 
cover shed had, as that sum wouldnt have covered the insurance provided at the 
original premium. But I thought the reason Miss O believed she was charged far too 
much was because of the lack of clarity around the issue. We asked Skyfire for 
clarification. It provided a partial response, some of which suggested that the 
premium increase may have been based on Miss O having made two claims. And I 
noted that it had told Miss O her premium would increase by around £179, but shortly 
afterwards it said the increase would be around £363. So I could see why Miss O 
was so confused and shocked by the sums Skyfire had quoted.
The increased premium charge was to be spread over Miss Os remaining direct 
debits. As far as I could see, she paid around £47 extra in September 2021 and 
again in October 2021. Skyfire said it would remove the extra premium, but Miss O 
said she didnt get a refund of the extra sums shed paid. We asked Skyfire to explain 
how it arrived at the extra premium sum and to clarify why Miss O didnt get a refund. 
I said that (based on the details we had at the time) it seemed she was due a refund. 
I thought Skyfire had provided poor service to Miss O, causing her unnecessary 
upset and inconvenience. I said that included not using a code she provided to 
access her DVLA record, telling her in error that she was in arrears with payments 
and asking her to pay the increased premium in a lump sum - when it was already 
being taken monthly. And Skyfire told Miss O shed be getting a large refund, but she 
got none at all. I thought Miss O was more affected and upset by all this than she 
may otherwise have been, given her precarious financial position.   
I said I thought Skyfire acted reasonably in paying Miss O compensation for distress 
and inconvenience when it realised its service was poor. She confirmed that it had 
paid her £50 in October 2021 and a further £50 in December 2021. I thought it should 
pay her another £50 for distress and inconvenience, as well as refunding the extra 
sums shed paid in September 2021 and October 2021  and that it should also 
explain how it arrived at the increased premium and why it didnt provide a refund.
Miss O didnt comment on my provisional findings. Skyfire said the only charge applied to 
her direct debits was a £50 admin charge, which was later reimbursed, and repeated that the 
entire premium was waived. It said that resulted in a reduction to the cancellation costs. 
Skyfire said it would not have issued a refund as it wasnt paid for.
I didnt think Skyfires response addressed the queries about the sum arrived at for the 
increase in premium, or why Miss O didnt get a refund of the extra sums shed paid. And I 
couldnt see how it could be accurate that only a £50 charge was added to her premiums, 
when shed provided bank statements showing that shed paid around £47 extra on her 
direct debits, twice. I didnt think it was clear what Skyfire meant by saying that it wouldnt 
have provided a refund as it wasnt paid for, especially when it had promised a refund.  
We asked Skyfire yet again to explain why it had said the increase in premium would be 
around £179, but the sum was then increased to around £363. We also asked again why 
Miss O didnt get a refund if the extra premium was waived, and shed already paid two 
increased direct debits. In its response, Skyfire agreed that Miss O had paid extra for two 
months, but it also said the sum was refunded. Later in the same response, it said she 
wasnt entitled to a refund on the two increased instalments, as the finance agreement is 
charged in arrears each month. It also said it had paid her £150 compensation for its errors.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before the provisional decision was issued, we asked Skyfire several times for clarification of 
the increase of around £179 being changed to around £363. We also asked about the note 
on the file that suggested the increase in the premium might be based on two claims being 
recorded against Miss O, in error. Skyfire didnt respond to these specific queries then, and it 
still hasnt done so. The size of the increases caused Miss O great alarm, and I think the 
least she could have expected from Skyfire was a clear explanation. These points remain 
unresolved, despite our attempts to get clarification. Although that isnt satisfactory, as the 
extra premium (or most of it) was waived, theres no point in continuing to pursue the matter. 
In my opinion, the issue of the refund due to Miss O still isnt clear either. She has shown the extra charges she paid in September 2021 and October 2021 on bank statements. And she 
insists that these sums were never refunded. In the absence of any evidence from Skyfire to 
the contrary, I think its reasonable to accept Miss Os account. At one point in its recent 
response, Skyfire said she wasnt entitled to a refund. But based on the limited information it 
has provided, I cant see why not. In my opinion, it isnt clear how finance being charged in 
arrears affects the sums Miss O was charged for insurance. As I dont think Skyfire has 
explained why Miss O isnt entitled to a refund, I think it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
refund the extra sums she paid for cover in 2021, plus interest. 
I dont think Skyfire has shown that it paid Miss O £150 compensation. If it did, it should have 
been able to provide evidence of that. She says she got two compensation payments of £50 
(although I think there was also a £50 admin charge refund). As theres no reason not to 
accept Miss Os account on this issue, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Skyfire to 
pay her a further £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its poor service.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Miss O a further £50 for distress and inconvenience. I also require it to refund the 
extra sums she paid for cover in September 2021 and October 2021. It should pay interest 
on those sums, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Skyfire thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss O how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax 
deduction certificate if required, so she  can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman