DRN-3450736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt treat them fairly when the term of 
their interest only mortgage ended.
 What happened
In 2011, Mr and Mrs W accepted Barclays recommendation to take out an interest only 
mortgage over a term of five years. The application stated that the repayment vehicle was 
unknown, and Mr and Mrs W were prepared to take a risk that the mortgage might not be 
repaid at the end of term. But it also said that Mr and Mrs W were going to make capital 
repayments on an ad-hoc basis. 
The mortgage wasnt repaid at the end of the term in November 2016. Mr and Mrs W said 
they needed time to sell a property abroad to raise the funds to repay this mortgage  but 
that process wasnt straightforward. Barclays agreed a number of extensions. But in October 
2019, Barclays told Mr and Mrs W that it intended to instruct solicitors to recover the debt. 
Mr and Mrs W complained. Barclays responded to say that it wasnt prepared to give any 
more extensions as the mortgage had ended over three years ago. 
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs W accepted an offer for the overseas property they were selling and 
exchanged contracts in December 2019. Mr and Mrs W updated Barclays. But despite this, 
in January 2020, Barclays instructed solicitors to recover the debt. It made a final request for 
the borrowing to be repaid, otherwise it would begin possession proceedings. 
Following contact from Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors, Barclays solicitors agreed to put any action 
on hold until 20 February 2020. And in March 2020 the proceeds of the sale were transferred 
to Barclays  leaving a shortfall to be repaid. The mortgage was repaid in 2021. 
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way that Barclays and its solicitors dealt with them: 
Barclays shouldnt have instructed solicitors. 
Barclays solicitors were heavy handed and put unnecessary pressure on them  that 
has added to the stress and inconvenience this matter has caused them.
Barclays solicitors delayed sending a redemption statement  and that meant they 
missed out on an offer of bridging finance to repay the remaining mortgage balance.
They have incurred legal costs because of the way that Barclays dealt with this matter  
they should be refunded. 
Barclays refused to transfer the funds from abroad to repay part of the mortgage. 
I issued a second provisional decision, upholding the complaint in part. Subject to any further 
submissions I found, in summary: 
Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs W fairly or reasonably when it instructed solicitors in 
January 2020. Mr and Mrs W had sold their overseas property and were due to receive a 
significant amount of money to pay towards the mortgage. If Barclays had acted fairly it 
ought to have explored Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at that point, rather than 
instructing solicitors. The communication from Barclays was poor and confused. There had been a breakdown 
in communication between the various departments at Barclays. The letter from Barclays 
end of term team was incorrect  Mr and Mrs W had been engaging with it. The wealth 
manager incorrectly led them to believe that solicitors would not be appointed. It was 
more likely than not that Barclays told Mr W that it would stop repossession action if they 
sold an asset  this is either incorrect or Barclays went against its own guidance. 
The actions of Barclays solicitors added some difficulty to communication  it didnt 
always fully answer the questions that were being asked and delayed to made 
information being passed to and from Barclays more difficult. 
Overall, I consider there have been failures by Barclays in the way it has communicated 
with Mr and Mrs W. I think that has added to their distress and inconvenience. 
The evidence we have doesnt support that Barclays didnt carry out the foreign 
exchange service because it was deliberately trying to upset or inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs W. Its still not entirely clear why Barclays didnt offer this service to Mr and Mrs W. 
The evidence points to a breakdown in communication between various different 
departments at Barclays and the solicitors rather than anything malicious. In any event, 
we dont know what margin Barclays would have offered Mr and Mrs W or whether it 
would have been better that the exchange rate that they obtained. So I dont consider 
they have suffered a financial loss because of this point. 
There was a delay in sending the redemption statement to Mr and Mrs W that led to 
them missing the deadline for their original bridging loan offer. But I didnt think it was fair 
or reasonable overall for Barclays to meet the loss they were claiming for a number of 
reasons: The cost of the bridging loan was significantly more than the Barclays 
mortgage; if they had taken the bridging loan they would have needed to refinance in 
May 2021, incurring more fees; Mr and Mrs W could have mitigated their loss by 
accepting the revised offer of bridging finance  while there may have been more fees, 
there was no evidence those fees would be duplicated; the evidence we have suggests 
that it was Mr and Mrs Ws decision to pursue a sale instead of going ahead with the 
revised offer. 
Barclays should refund its own legal costs as it didnt appoint the solicitors fairly in the 
circumstances. 
On reflection, I understand why Mr and Mrs W thought it necessary to instruct their own 
solicitors. I dont consider that was necessary for Mr and Mrs W to have their solicitor 
deal with Barclays solicitor for every matter. I say that as in view of the nature of the 
requests and information that was being exchanged and particularly when Barclays had 
asked Mr and Mrs W to deal with their solicitors directly with an eye to costs. Mr and Mrs 
W accept they knew that Barclays legal costs were under £3,000. It doesnt seem 
reasonable for them to incur significantly higher fees in knowledge of that. It would be fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to repay a proportion of Mr and Mrs Ws legal costs that 
were in relation to the threat of repossession. I consider Barclays should pay 65% of the 
costs  that reflects that there was no need for their solicitor to deal exclusively with 
Barclays solicitors and Mr and Mrs W had been told that. I accept what Mr and Mrs W have told us about what they were going through during the 
period. I agree that unfair way that Barclays dealt with them would have been a 
significant contribution to how they were feeling. But the level of inconvenience would 
have been broadly the same had those errors not occurred. They would still have had to 
communicate regularly with Barclays and take steps to arrange alternative finance or sell 
property to repay the debt. I accept there was some inconvenience due to Barclayss 
mistakes, but it makes up a small proportion of my award. I still consider that Mr and Mrs 
W would have been in a stressful situation if Barclays had treated them fairly. But I 
accept that by instructing solicitors Barclays added significantly to that. Barclays actions 
have caused them considerable distress, upset and worry over a period of six months. 
On reflection, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mr and 
Mrs W £750 to compensate them for distress and inconvenience 
Mr and Mrs W accepted my second provisional decision. They added that when they 
redeemed the mortgage there was a delay by Barclays in releasing the charge it held over 
the property causing them further frustration and costs.
.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I said in my second provisional decision, this complaint was referred to us on 28 February 
2020. Usually, we can only consider complaints about events that happened before they 
were referred to us. But the nature of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint means that this matter has 
been ongoing. That meant the investigator covered some issues that happened after 
complaint had been passed to us. 
Mr and Mrs W have expressed ongoing dissatisfaction about Barclays to the investigator. 
For the avoidance of any doubt I am only considering the same events that the investigator 
did in her view. I clarified that was up to June 2020, when the redemption statement wasnt 
sent. I have not considered any events after that. That includes any delay in releasing the 
charge for the property. 
While I take into account the relevant law, rules and regulations (amongst other things) in 
deciding what I consider in my opinion to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint, it is not my role to make findings that there have been breaches of any particular 
rules or regulations. I am only looking at the individual circumstances of this case. It isnt for 
me to look at whether the issues here are widespread or any agreements between Barclays 
and its solicitors. 
End of term 
Mr and Mrs W had a regulated mortgage with Barclays. They are correct that the FCAs 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook (MCOB) are the relevant 
rules that Barclays should follow here  along with the guidance on dealing fairly with 
interest only mortgage customers who risk being unable to repay their loan and the FCAs 
high level principles. Ive taken all of that into account in deciding what, in my opinion, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage, they agreed to repay it in 2016. They were 
responsible for doing so  and were in breach of contract when they didnt. But Barclays 
should recognise that some borrowers with an interest only mortgage might not be able to 
repay it in full as agreed. It has an obligation to treat them fairly. While lenders are entitled to 
look for the debt to be repaid and legal action is a legitimate course of action, repossession 
should only be sought as a last resort. 
I cant agree that it would be fair or reasonable to say that just because Barclays gave Mr 
and Mrs W time once the term had ended that it would mean that Barclays had waived its 
rights to seek redemption of the mortgage. It is in line with good practice and the relevant 
rules for lenders to give borrowers who are unable to repay an interest only mortgage at 
term end more time. In fact, that is what Mr and Mrs W wanted. It would send out the wrong 
message if I were to find that Barclays would be prevented from seeking possession 
because it had given Mr and Mrs W as much time as it did. 
Barclays decision not to give Mr and Mrs W any more time to repay the mortgage was taken 
on 10 October 2019. Barclays decided to issue a letter stating that it intended to take legal 
action. Its stated reasons for that were the length of time it had been since the mortgage 
term had ended (almost three years) and as the property had already been on the market for 
a year. It said the repayment vehicle was the sale of the mortgaged property or the overseas 
property, whichever sells first. The letter it sent suggests that it did not consider that Mr and 
Mrs W had engaged with it (although it later accepted that was wrong). Its notes of the 
decision state that NO [its emphasis] further time should be given. Looking at all of the evidence available to Barclays in October 2019, overall, I think it was 
reasonable for it to give notice that it intended to start legal action at that point. There had 
been no credible progression in any of the proposed sales. The information it had did not 
support that offers were imminent on the properties that were for sale. In view of the length 
of time since the mortgage term had ended and the number of extensions it had already 
given (in largely similar circumstances) I consider it was fair for Barclays to take the action it 
did at that point. 
However, I dont consider it was fair for it to say that it would under no circumstances give Mr 
and Mrs W more time. There was always a chance that the situation would change to such 
an extent that the lender should review and adjust its approach. Barclays has told me that it 
would always give more time if that was the right thing to do. But it hasnt given a plausible 
explanation why its own records say the opposite of that. And its own actions later do not 
support that either. 
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs W told Barclays they had received an offer for their overseas 
property. On 30 December 2019, they gave evidence of exchange of contracts. Barclays 
notes state that it estimated the sale price to be around £300,000 less than the outstanding 
mortgage balance using the exchange rate at that time and that completion should be on 15 
February 2020. Barclays next note is on 4 January 2020. It said, due to lack of progress, 
instruction sent to [the solicitors]No indication shortfall will be paid as requested. I dont 
think this was fair. There had clearly been progress since the initial decision was made in 
October 2019. Mr and Mrs W had exchanged contracts to sell the overseas property for an 
amount, which, based on the information available to Barclays, would have been sufficient to 
repay around 80% of the mortgage balance. I cant see that was anything other than a 
significant amount of progress. I think it would have been reasonable for Barclays to pause 
instructing solicitors at that point. 
I accept that the proceeds of the sale would not have repaid the full mortgage balance. But it 
would have left a much smaller balance left to repay  and that would have given Mr and 
Mrs W more options to refinance or explore other options. I consider it would have been 
reasonable for Barclays to explore what options were available to Mr and Mrs W at that 
point. It would not have prevented it instructing solicitors at a later point. 
I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for Barclays to instruct solicitors in January 2020. 
The impact of that was a significant loss of trust between Mr and Mrs W and Barclays  and 
the relationship deteriorated from that point. That did not help as things progressed. 
Following that Mr and Mrs W explored refinancing with Barclays, but Barclays could not help 
them. When they did transfer the proceeds of the sale of the overseas property, it wasnt the 
full amount, as they used some of the balance to repay tax that was due in relation to the 
sale. That left a higher balance than expected to be repaid. But I still consider that Barclays 
should have engaged with Mr and Mrs W and explored their options. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs W arranged a bridging loan to repay the shortfall. I think that 
would have been enough for Barclays to give them time to allow that to progress. Mr and 
Mrs W say that they didnt proceed with it because of a delay in Barclays producing a 
redemption statement. Im not persuaded that is the reason that the bridging loan did not go 
ahead. I will deal with that in more detail below. Rather it seems that Mr and Mrs W decided 
to accept an offer to sell their property instead. But again, that would have been a valid 
reason for Barclays to give Mr and Mrs W more time. I agree that Barclays solicitors took an 
inflexible approach when Mr and Mrs W put forward their proposals via their solicitor.
CommunicationMr and Mrs W said that Barclays gave them assurances that it didnt adhere to. There 
appears to have been a breakdown in communication between Mr and Mrs Ws wealth 
manager and Barclays end of term review panel. Barclays hasnt given us any information 
to support that this didnt happen  and Mr and Mrs W have been clear and consistent in 
what theyve said about what they were told. 
The review panel and the wealth manager are all part of Barclays. It is reasonable to expect 
them to be joined up in their approach. While they might act independently, it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to understand that they were dealing with Barclays whoever 
they were communicating with and that they would receive accurate information. 
Barclays and the staff acting on its behalf have a duty to communicate in a way that is clear, 
fair and not misleading. The various departments should understand each others roles and 
policies (or ask if they dont), not make decisions that are outside their powers, pass relevant 
information between each other and to make sure it has all relevant information from all 
parts of Barclays before making decisions. Barclays has already accepted that the letters its 
end of term team sent Mr and Mrs W werent accurate  Mr and Mrs W had been in regular 
contact with their wealth manager. It also appears that assurances their wealth manager 
gave them about the appointment of solicitors wasnt accurate. 
On 17 October 2019, Mr W had a phone conversation with Barclays. Barclays does not have 
a recording of this phone call, despite it knowing that it was relevant to this ongoing case. Mr 
W has provided the notes he made of that conversation. I consider it more likely than not 
that the notes are an accurate reflection of what was discussed. They support that Mr and 
Mrs W were told by Barclays that it would stop repossession action if they sold an asset. 
This is either incorrect  or Barclays went against its own guidance when it continued to 
instruct solicitors after Mr and Mrs W had provided evidence they had exchanged contracts 
on the sale of their overseas property. 
In regard to the communication from solicitors, I can see that at times it added some difficulty 
to communications between Mr and Mrs W and Barclays. There were occasions where it 
didnt fully answer the questions being asked and delayed or made information being passed 
to and from Barclays more difficult. I accept this has added to Mr and Mrs Ws distress and 
inconvenience. I cant see that it was an attempt to increase fees. 
Overall, I consider there have been failures by Barclays in the way it has communicated with 
Mr and Mrs W. I think that has added to their distress and inconvenience. I have taken that 
into account un my award below.
Foreign exchange
On 25 February 2020, Barclays solicitor told Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor that I confirm my 
client is making internal enquiries as to the exchange rate which could be offered, should 
your clients process the sale proceeds into Sterling via Barclays. I will revert when I have 
instructions...There is not, of course, any obligation whatsoever for my client to offer any 
additional exchange services to your client, particularly in circumstances where they are 
already in breach of contract. I asked Barclays to clarify its position. It said that it never 
stopped Mr and Mrs W from using its foreign exchange service as this was available to all its 
customers. But, confusingly, it went on to say that it offered foreign exchange conversions 
on an ad-hoc basis with no obligation or requirement for [it] to offer it. 
I dont consider that Barclays solicitor told Mr and Mrs W that Barclays would not process 
the transfer of the funds from Euros to sterling  although I cant see that it ever gave Mr and 
Mrs W an exchange rate. And Barclays subsequent responses are confusing in regard to 
whether it was prepared to offer a foreign exchange service to Mr and Mrs W or not. The evidence we have doesnt support that Barclays didnt carry out the foreign exchange 
service because it was deliberately trying to upset or inconvenience Mr and Mrs W. Its still 
not entirely clear why Barclays didnt offer this service to Mr and Mrs W. The evidence points 
to a breakdown in communication between differed departments at Barclays and the 
solicitors rather than anything malicious. 
Ultimately, I cant see that Mr and Mrs W have suffered a financial loss by using a third-party 
foreign exchange firm to transfer the sale proceeds. I say that as we dont know what 
exchange rate Barclays would have offered at the time in question. I am satisfied that 
Barclays was under no obligation to transfer the funds at the rates available to it and would 
likely have applied a margin. So I cant say that the rate Mr and Mrs W achieved was worse 
than what they would have got with Barclays.
Redemption statement
There was a delay in sending the redemption statement to Mr and Mrs W. That meant they 
missed the deadline for their original bridging loan offer. They want Barclays to pay them the 
costs they incurred in arranging the bridging loan that didnt go ahead. They said that 
although there was a revised offer, that would involve paying additional fees.
When I look at redress, my starting point is to put the affected party in the position they 
would have been in had the mistake not occurred. Mr and Mrs W said they would have taken 
the bridging loan had Barclays provided the redemption statement on time. 
The costs of the bridging loan were £43,133 over twelve months. That would have taken Mr 
and Mrs W up to around June 2021. Presumably Mr and Mrs W would have needed to 
refinance after twelve months as they needed to arrange bridging finance to repay the 
mortgage in May 2021. 
The cost of staying with Barclays over the same period was £17,550. So the cost of staying 
with Barclays was considerably less than if Mr and Mrs W had taken the original bridging 
finance  and that is not taking into account the likely additional cost of refinancing in or 
around June 2021. 
I still consider that Mr and Mrs W could have mitigated their loss by accepting the revised 
offer of bridging finance. While there may have been additional fees in accepting the revised 
offer of bridging finance, I havent seen any evidence that all of the fees incurred as part of 
the original application would be duplicated. In any case, the evidence I have suggests that 
Mr and Mr W chose to pursue a sale instead of going ahead with the revised bridging loan. 
That was their decision. I dont consider it would be fair for me to tell Barclays to meet the 
abortive costs of the bridging loan when Mr and Mrs W are better off overall as a result of the 
mistake and it seems more likely that it was their decision to pursue the sale rather than go 
ahead with the revised offer of bridging finance where there is no evidence that the amounts 
they had already spent would necessarily be duplicated. Putting things right
Ive found that Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs W fairly when it appointed solicitors. Barclays 
should refund all of the legal costs that it applied. 
I have given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs W have said about their decision to appoint 
solicitors. I can understand why Mr and Mrs W chose to seek some legal advice because of 
the situation they were in, in view of Barclays error, the letter from Barclays and the amount 
at stake. I dont consider it was necessary for Mr and Mrs W to have their solicitor deal with 
Barclays solicitor for every matter relating to the repossession. I say that as in view of the 
nature of the requests and information that was being exchanged and particularly when 
Barclays had asked Mr and Mrs W to deal with their solicitors directly with an eye to costs. 
Mr and Mrs W accept they knew that Barclays legal costs were under £3,000. It doesnt 
seem reasonable for them to incur significantly higher fees in knowledge of that. 
I consider it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to repay a proportion of Mr and Mrs 
Ws legal costs that were in relation to the threat of repossession. I consider Barclays should 
pay 65% of the costs that Mr and Mrs W directly incurred in relation to their solicitor. That 
reflects that it was Barclays unfair decision in appointing solicitors that led to Mr and Mrs W 
instructing their own solicitors and it actions. I have deducted 35% to reflect that there was 
no need for the solicitor to deal exclusively with Barclays solicitors and Mr and Mrs W had 
been told that. 
I have found that Barclays didnt treat Mr and Mrs W fairly in appointing solicitors, overall 
poor communication and delay in sending the redemption figure. Mr and Mrs W have told us 
that this caused them a massive amount of stress and has had a negative impact on their 
mental and physical health. Although the sale of the overseas property was stressful, the 
cause of their subsequent stress was solely due to Barclays actions. Mr and Mrs W referred 
their complaint to us in February 2020 while this matter was ongoing. The investigator 
considered events from October 2019 until shortly after the bridging loan lapsed in June 
2020. That is what I am considering here too  not anything that happened afterwards. It is a 
period of around eight months  and Mr and Mrs W have told us that Barclays was the cause 
of distress, inconvenience and suffering from January 2020. So I am considering 
compensation to reflect that over around six months. 
I accept what Mr and Mrs W have told us about what they were going through during that 
period. I agree that unfair way that Barclays dealt with them would have been a significant 
contribution to how they were feeling. But the level of inconvenience would have been 
broadly the same had those errors not occurred. They would still have had to communicate 
regularly with Barclays and take steps to arrange alternative finance or sell property to repay 
the debt. I accept there was some inconvenience due to Barclayss mistakes, but it makes 
up a small proportion of my award. 
I still consider that Mr and Mrs W would have been in a stressful situation if Barclays had 
treated them fairly. But I accept that by instructing solicitors Barclays added significantly to 
that. Barclays actions has caused them considerable distress, upset and worry over a 
period of six months. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay Mr 
and Mrs W £750 to compensate them for distress and inconvenience.
 My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
Refund any legal costs it has applied in relation to this matter since 4 January 2020. If any of those costs were added to the mortgage refund any associated interest. 
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above amount from the date the mortgage was 
repaid until date of settlement. 
Pay 65% of Mr and Mrs Ws legal costs in relation to their solicitor acting for them and 
dealing with Barclays solicitors. 
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from date Mr and Mrs W paid the invoice until date of 
settlement. Mr and Mrs W will need to provide evidence of the amount they paid to settle 
the invoice to Barclays if they accept this decision.
Pay Mr and Mrs W £750 for any distress and inconvenience.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the above interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman