DRN-3479135
The complaint
The estate of Ms A (The Estate) is unhappy that TSB Bank plc released the proceeds of 
the late Ms As accounts to a person who wasnt legally entitled to it.
What happened
Ms A held several accounts with TSB. Sadly, in November 2017, she died. Following this, 
The Estate contacted TSB on several occasions requesting information about Ms As 
accounts, and was eventually told by TSB that their authority over Ms As accounts wasnt 
recognised by TSB and that the information that they were requesting had already been 
provided to the executor of Ms As estate. The Estate wasnt happy about this, given that it 
was the legal executor of Ms As estate. So, it raised a complaint.
TSB looked at The Estates complaint and issued a complaint response to it. However, this 
response didnt address the issues about which The Estate was complaining. So, The Estate 
referred its complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that TSB had released the 
proceeds of the late Ms As accounts to a person that wasnt legally entitled to it, from whom 
The Estate had then had to recover the money. 
Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint should be upheld in The 
Estates favour, and that TSB should pay 8% simple interest on the balance of the proceeds 
of the accounts for the period from when The Estate should reasonably have received the 
money from TSB to when they were able to recover it from the unauthorised party.
TSB didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the death of Ms A, TSB were approached by the unauthorised party (who it must 
be noted is a relative of Ms A) and their legal representatives, who provided TSB with 
credible evidence to suggest that the unauthorised party was the executor of the estate. This 
included the death certificate for Ms A which listed the unauthorised party as the informant 
on the certificate. TSB then completed a bereavement form with the unauthorised party, who 
signed the form as the legal representative authorised to deal with the estate.
It's understandable then, to a degree, why TSB felt that the unauthorised party was the 
executor of the estate such that the proceeds of the accounts could be released to them.
However, before TSB released the proceeds of the accounts to the unauthorised party, they 
were also contacted by The Estate and its legal representatives, who advised TSB that they 
were the executors of Ms As estate and who sought confirmation from TSB on how to move 
forwards. As such, its clear that TSB were aware that two parties were both claiming to be 
the executors of the estate before they released the proceeds of the accounts to the 
unauthorised party.
TSB have confirmed that they followed their process for estates where the balance of the 
estate is below their threshold whereby letters of administration arent required by them 
before releasing the estate funds.  
TSB are entitled to operate such a process. But when that process leads to an unfair 
outcome, as is clearly the case in this instance, I find it difficult to conclude anything other 
than TSB should be held accountable for any unfair outcome that arises as a result of the 
application of that process.
Additionally, given that TSB were aware that two separate parties were both claiming to be 
the executors of the estate, its difficult to understand why TSB didnt take steps to 
corroborate which of the two parties were the legitimate executors before releasing the 
estate funds. And had TSB taken this obvious additional step, none of the issues that 
resulted from TSB releasing the estate funds to the unauthorised party would have occurred.
All of which means that Ill be upholding this complaint in The Estates favour and instructing 
TSB to pay 8% simple interest on the balance of the proceeds of the accounts for the period 
from when The Estate should reasonably have received the money from TSB (which I feel 
was when TSB released the money to the unauthorised party on 12 October 2018) to when 
The Estate were able to recover it from the unauthorised party (which took place on 29 
November 2018), during which time Im satisfied that The Estate were denied access to the 
monies as a result of TSBs unfair actions.
Putting things right
TSB must pay The Estate 8% simple interest on the full balance of the proceeds of the 
accounts for the period 12 October 2018 to 29 November 2018 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms A 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman