DRN-3349825
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc did not do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company.
What happened
Between 29 February 2016 to 10 March 2016, Mr S made seven Visa debit card payments 
totaling £23,500 to a binary options company called Ivory Option. He tried to make 
withdrawals from his trading platform several times but his account manager at Ivory Option 
made various excuses as to why he couldnt withdraw his available balances.
Mr S complained about the disputed transactions to Barclays in May 2019 and asked for 
assistance with recovering his funds. Barclays issued its final response in December 2019 
where it invited Mr S to provide further information about Ivory Option. Unhappy with its 
response, Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He felt the disputed transactions ought to have 
been considered unusual from 4 March 2016 and Barclays could have intervened and 
provided a warning to Mr S.
Barclays didnt agree. It noted that an FCA warning wasnt published until after Mr S made 
all of his payments, so it couldnt have given him a warning about Ivory Option specifically. It 
also felt the payment of 4 March 2016 normalised the payee.
On 7 January 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
I accept that Mr S was the victim of a scam and Im sorry that he lost this money. But my role 
here is to assess whether Barclays could have prevented the scam or done more to recover 
Mr S payments.
Ill first deal with whether Barclays could have recovered Mr S payments when he reported 
the scam.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr S).
By the time Mr S contacted Barclays in 2019, he was outside the required time limits (120 
days) for Barclays to have attempted chargeback claims. So, I dont think Barclays could 
have attempted chargeback claims on his behalf.
Unusual or uncharacteristic payments
It is common ground that Mr S authorised the scam payments in question here. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr S was the victim of a scam. So, although 
he did not know he was being scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
I am not satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Barclays that Mr S account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity.
In Mr S case, there were no warnings published about Ivory Option at the time of his 
payments. Ive noted the first three payments below:
Date Merchant Amount
29 February 2016 Ivory Option £500.00
3 March 2016 Ivory Option £2,500.00
4 March 2016 Ivory Option £7,500.00
Having reviewed Mr S normal spend, he did pay amounts in the thousands towards a credit 
card and paid at least between £500 to £2,000 every month, with a large payment of around
£12,500 in October 2015 (within six months of the scam). So I dont think his third payment, 
or the payments that followed to Ivory Option were particularly unusual in light of his normal 
account spend.
And even if I did find that some of his payments were unusual (which I dont), Mr S has 
provided email correspondence to show that he was still communicating with Ivory Option in 
2018. He wrote to Ivory Option the following:
I have been with you for nearly 3 years. The 1st 2 year went smoothly and goes very well, till 
problem started when the new website changed early this year til now and all the problems 
have never been solved
Given that Mr S had good experiences with Ivory Option in the first two years of his trading 
account being open and there was no adverse information about them at the point of his 
payments, I think its likely that a warning from Barclays would have made no difference 
because its clear he had no cause for concern until much later on.Im sorry Mr S has lost such a significant amount of money to cruel scammers. I dont doubt 
for a moment the huge impact this must have had on him. But it would only be fair for me to 
uphold this complaint if Barclays were responsible for failures which otherwise would have 
prevented the loss or would have resulted in the recovery of the funds. As I dont think the 
transactions were unusual, nor did Mr S contact Barclays in time for it to have helped with 
chargeback claims, I dont think I can fairly tell it to do more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision, so I assume it has nothing further it 
wishes to add. 
Mr S responded to my decision and agreed that he was out of time for Barclays to have 
assisted with chargeback claims. But he disagreed with my provisional findings on whether 
Barclays ought to have intervened in his payments to Ivory Option. In summary Mr S said:
Barclays normally stopped Mr S to go through its security systems but it did not do so 
when he paid Ivory Option.
The payments to Ivory Option were not made on a credit card, he used bank 
transfers online which he often uses with other friends/families/companies etc..
Barclays did not ask Mr S for his authorisation to process the payments to Ivory 
Option, so he continued without knowing it was a scam.
The FSCS protects customers for up to £85,000, so Barclays should refund his 
payments.
Barclays has been fined heavily by the FCA for poorly treating customers and failing 
to minimise the risk of financial crime.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint should not be upheld  for the 
reasons that follow.
I do not dispute that Barclays didnt stop Mr S payments to Ivory Option. But I considered, in 
light of Mr S normal spending pattern, that the payments werent all that unusual. I therefore 
concluded that Barclays werent required to intervene in the payments. But I also noted in 
my provisional findings that even if Barclays had intervened, I dont think a warning about 
scams would have changed Mr S mind about investing with Ivory Option. There was no 
credible information about Ivory Option (at the time of Mr S payments) that suggested they 
could be operating a scam. By Mr S own testimony, he was happy with them until he 
approached the third year of his dealings with them. Im not persuaded he would have acted 
differently if Barclays had intervened in the payments he made because he had no cause for 
concern until a significant time had passed after he made all of his payments. 
Ive not seen any evidence that the payments to Ivory Option were made by way of bank 
transfers. The payments reference code is BCC - which is an abbreviation Barclays uses 
for card payments, so Im persuaded Mr S made the payments on his card rather than by 
bank transfers. And so, for the reasons I previously explained, the payments to Ivory Option 
werent significantly out of character for his normal account usage.
Ive noted Mr S says that Barclays did not ask him for his authorisation before processing the 
payments. Its not disputed that Mr S authorised the payments in dispute, his complaint is that he was the victim of a scam. Im satisfied he intended to make the payments by 
providing Ivory Option with his card details and authority to take them. He of course was not 
aware that Ivory Option was a scam at the point the payments were taken. Im also not 
persuaded Barclays could have known they were scammers at the time the payments were 
taken either.  
I recognise that the FSCS would protect Mr S for up to £85,000. But that is in the event that 
an authorised firm fails. That hasnt happened here and Barclays is still in operation. The 
FSCS protection does not cover scenarios like the scam Mr S fell victim to here.
I appreciate Mr S concerns about Barclays in general. However, I have carefully considered 
his case and I dont think Barclays failed to intervene. And Im not persuaded any 
intervention would have made a difference to Mr S decision to invest with Ivory Option. 
 
I appreciate this will come as a disapointment to Mr S given that he lost his money in this 
way. But I dont think Barclays can be held responsible for that loss for the reasons Ive 
explained in this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that despite my natural sympathies for Mr S losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman