DRN-1420835
 
The complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by Mrs R in August 2002 when she 
applied for the card through the post.
Mrs R says the policy was never mentioned to her. She says she knew nothing about the 
policy not to mention it was optional. She believes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and i will explain why.
I think Barclaycard made Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because she filled in an application form which asked her to say if she required 
PPI. And I can see that she ticked box to indicate that she wanted to take the policy out. She 
could have left this box blank if she didnt want the insurance.
Barclaycard didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. It did have to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
It is possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think that clearer information would have made a difference to 
Mrs R adding the insurance anyway.  
I say this because although Mrs R told us that she was entitled to 6 months full and 6 
months half sick pay and savings, I can see the policy would have paid more than her 
minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months if she couldnt work. This would have 
provided a useful extra benefit at a difficult time and for longer than her provisions could 
provide for. She was also not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and affordable.
So I think it unlikely Mrs R would have made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.This means Barclaycard dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Barclaycard didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman