DRN-3947511
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays in viewing his investment holdings with ITI Capital Limited (ITI), 
and then in transferring his holdings away to another provider.
What happened
Mr A held some shares and some cash in an account with a broker Ill call A. In 2019 A was 
placed into administration. In 2020, As administrators told Mr A that his account, and his 
assets, would be moved from A to ITI. They said this would happen in June and July.
Mr A was given access to ITIs platform in August 2020. Almost straight away, he contacted 
another broker, B, and asked them to move his holding across from ITI. Over the next few 
months he was told by B that theyd not been getting a response from ITI. Mr A contacted 
the administrators of A, who told him that anything that happened after his account moved 
over was ITIs responsibility. So Mr A complained to ITI.
ITI responded to Mr A in January 2021. They apologised for how long things had taken and 
offered Mr A £125 to say sorry. They explained most of Mr As shares had now been moved 
to B, and, shortly after ITIs response to his complaint, the last of the cash in Mr As account 
was transferred too. All that remained in Mr As account with ITI was a shareholding which B 
couldnt accept.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. She didnt think £125 was fair 
compensation given how long Mr As transfer had been delayed, and the lack of information 
hed had about his investments for many months. Given that, and the lengths Mr A had gone 
to in order to chase ITI repeatedly, she thought ITI ought to pay Mr A £250.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that as well as the transfer delay he wasnt sure all the dividends 
paid by the companies hed invested in were reflected in the cash balance on his account 
when it moved over to B. He wanted ITI to find out what had happened.
ITI said the allegedly missing dividends had been paid in 2019, before Mr As account 
migrated from A and its administrators to their platform. They said there was nothing they 
could do to help Mr A track the payments down. Our investigator didnt think ITI needed to 
do anything more than that. 
Mr A still wasnt happy with the proposed resolution to the complaint, and so the case has 
come to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ive got a lot of sympathy for Mr A. It took a long time for him to get access to 
his investments then to move them to a broker of his choice. And he still isnt sure whether 
he's been paid all his dividends. But in all the circumstances I think £250 is fair 
compensation for the things ITI are responsible for. Ill explain why.
It's not in dispute that ITI didnt give Mr A the service itd have liked to after his account 
migrated to them from A. He couldnt see his account, what his shares were worth, how 
many he had or how much cash he had to invest, for nearly two months after his account 
moved to ITI. Im satisfied this would have been worrying for Mr A.
Once he finally gained access, Mr A decided he didnt want to stay with ITI but instead 
wanted to move his holdings to another broker, B. Mr A had four different shareholdings and 
some cash. Id normally expect that sort of transfer to take a few weeks at most. But here 
things werent completed until over five months later. And I can see that ITI didnt let Mr A 
know what was happening or why things were taking so long, which would have added to his 
concern and frustration.
Taking all that into account, I think payment of £250 is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr A was caused by ITIs delays and lack of communication.
Ill now turn to the issue Mr As raised about some of the dividends on his holdings. Mr As 
worked out that, based on the published dividends on the shares he holds, and the amount 
of cash in his account when it transferred to B, he thinks some dividends havent been 
credited to him. But these relate to dividends paid in 2019, before Mr As account moved to 
ITI.
I appreciate its very frustrating for Mr A, and the distinction doesnt help him have his 
questions answered. But I can only fairly hold ITI responsible for actions during the time in 
which he was their customer. Before June 2020 ITI had no control or knowledge of what was 
happening with Mr As account. It was with A, and so the responsibility of that company (and 
later their administrators). 
So while I appreciate Mr A may now have to go back to As administrators to find out more 
and hopefully get his money back, any additional time or effort isnt something I can fairly 
say ITI are responsible for, or should therefore compensate Mr A for.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr A in light of the distress and inconvenience it caused him by 
delaying his access to his account and then in the time it took to transfer his holdings to B, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for ITI to pay him £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my decision is that I uphold this complaint. ITI Capital Limited 
must pay Mr A £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman