DRN-3695085
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont write off his overdrawn balance when 
a technical error occurred on their systems which resulted in him not being able to see his 
balance and allowed him to create an unarranged overdraft.
What happened
Mr S was expecting £2,000 to go into his Nationwide account. But an error with their system 
resulted in him not being able to see what the available balance was. Mr S spent more than 
he had available, which resulted in him entering an unarranged overdraft. He says 
Nationwide reported this on his credit file. Mr S made a complaint to Nationwide and he 
wanted the balance to be written off and he wanted compensation from them. 
Nationwide apologised for their system error on 19 April 2022. They said they knew it meant 
he couldnt see how much money he had in his account, and the errors allowed him to spend 
more than he had available, which took him into an unarranged overdraft. They said to put 
things right, they had refunded him £500 to support him in reducing his overdrawn balance.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said Nationwide rang him over ten times a day 
to get the money back, which he felt harassed by their collections process. Our investigator 
did not uphold his complaint. He said although Mr S was expecting £2,000 into his account 
on 19 April, which he didnt receive, Nationwide could not be responsible for this, or the 
spending which took place thereafter. He said banks and building societies have an 
obligation to report his account status to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Our investigator said Mr S was expecting £2,000 to be deposited into his account, so hed 
spent £1,909.04 between 19 April-21 April 2022. He said in recognition of their error, 
Nationwide paid him £500 towards the unarranged overdraft, which he thought was a fair 
and reasonable resolution. In response to the calls from Nationwide, our investigator said Mr 
S would need to contact Nationwide in relation to this issue in the first instance. And if he 
doesnt accept what they say, he may be able to bring this complaint to our service.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said he was unable to see his account balance and they also had a debit 
issue, which resulted in all of the payments being debited from his account and the business 
took full responsibility for this, so legally standing in court, the compensation they paid would 
be legally incorrect, which he also says they have committed defamation as they had 
affected his credit file and if this cant be dealt with by our service, then he will seek legal 
advice in regards to that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr S has mentioned potential legal issues. But if Mr S wants a decision that Nationwide have 
breached any laws, then hed need to go to Court. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant law, 
regulations and industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
Our investigator has told Mr S that he would need to raise the issue of the collections 
process and the multiple calls with Nationwide before we may be able to look into this point if 
he remains unhappy with their response. Mr S has told us he has now raised this with 
Nationwide. So I wont be able to comment on this point within my decision. 
Theres no doubt that Nationwide have let down Mr S here. He was unable to see what his 
balance was, and as he was expecting £2,000 to go into his account, Im not persuaded 
there would be a reasonable explanation why Mr S would not think that this was his 
approximate balance  especially when none of the transactions he was making were 
declined. And Nationwides errors meant that his payments were allowed to be debited from 
his account the following day, creating an unarranged overdraft.
While Nationwides website (regarding overdrafts) shows they can allow a payment to be 
made from your account although there is not enough money in it (or it would take you past 
your arranged overdraft limit), it also says We dont offer unarranged overdrafts at 
Nationwide  so if someone tries to go over their arranged overdraft limit, well stop this from 
happening (where possible). Im persuaded that due to technical issues that Nationwide 
werent able to stop this from happening.
But the £2,000 Mr S was expecting did not credit his account on 19 April 2022. And it does 
not appear that this money credited his account shortly after this date, as this would have 
cleared the unarranged overdraft. There does not appear to be any errors which prevented 
the £2,000 to be paid into his account, even when the issues had been resolved. So 
although Nationwide should not have allowed the payments to go through due to the error, 
Mr S still had the benefit of this money, and he spent it. So it would not be proportionate for 
me to ask Nationwide to write off the remaining unarranged overdraft when Mr S has had the 
benefit of this money. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about Nationwide reporting the unarranged overdraft to 
the CRAs. But here, they have an obligation to report accurate information to the CRAs 
about his account. So I cant say theyve done anything wrong here. It may be that if Mr S 
contacts Nationwide to put a payment arrangement in place to pay off the unarranged 
overdraft, then Nationwide may report this as an arrangement to pay on his credit file, but he 
would need to ask Nationwide how any repayment plan would be reported to the CRAs.
Ive also considered whether any interest would be charged as part of an unarranged 
overdraft, as Im not persuaded it would be fair for Nationwide to charge Mr S interest as a 
result of their errors. But his current account statement shows that there is no interest 
charged on unarranged overdrafts or any monthly fees. 
Mr S has also mentioned various points around why he feels that, legally, Nationwide isnt 
entitled to ask him to pay this money back. Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive considered all 
hes said around this point, but Ive not seen anything in his comments that makes me think 
that Nationwide is acting unfairly here.Ive considered the compensation that Nationwide have paid here. Nationwide have reduced 
the overdraft by £500 to recognise the impact that their errors have had on Mr S. Im 
satisfied that this is fair. I say this as £500 would be in line with what I broadly would have 
awarded him if Nationwide had not paid this compensation. I say this as Nationwides errors 
have caused Mr S significant distress, upset and worry and their technical issues caused 
several transactions to be allowed which Im persuaded Nationwide wouldnt have allowed if 
there wasnt technical issues. But as Ive previously mentioned, it would not be proportionate 
for me to ask them to write off the remainder of the unarranged overdraft when Mr S has had 
the benefit of this money. Mr S should contact Nationwide to set up an affordable repayment 
plan for himself. But it follows I dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman