DRN-2958835
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint, made through his representative, concerns his trading account held with 
Trading Point of Financial Instruments UK Limited (at the time XM). He says XM failed to 
obtain sufficient information about his knowledge, experience and risk tolerance before 
opening his account and then pressured him to deposit more money by offering bonuses 
and benefits. It didnt act in his best interests or support him as a retail client, which led to 
him incurring losses. 
What happened
Mr P opened his account with XM in October 2017 and traded through to August 2018. His 
representatives then made the complaint, as summarised above, to XM in April 2020.
XM didnt consider it should be upheld. It said, in brief:
The account was opened solely by Mr P with no inducement and his subsequent 
trading strategy was his own.
He declared he had a knowledge of trading and experience in different complex 
products in his application and also confirmed he had a professional 
qualification/education. XM was never notified of any changes to this information.
There was no evidence that Mr Ps account manager advised him on any trades. The 
account was operated on an execution-only basis.  
He was categorised as a retail client, and professional status was never requested or 
granted.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as XM and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said, in brief:
The user agreement and risk disclosure notice set out in detail the risks associated 
with the account and CFD (Contracts for Difference) trading. 
The account was operated on an execution-only basis and this was explained as part 
of the account opening process. 
XMs website also confirmed the risk involved in this type of trading. 
The appropriateness information obtained as part of the account opening process 
confirmed that Mr P had knowledge of and trading experience in complex products, 
and it was reasonable for XM to rely upon the information provided by him in 
determining whether the account was appropriate for him. The process was in 
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules as set out in its Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook.
There was no requirement for XM to question how and to what level the account was 
funded.
The telephone call and email evidence didnt support Mr P being advised or 
pressured to place any specific trades. Rather, it showed that his account manager 
had simply provided technical information in response to his queries.   
Mr Ps representative didnt accept the investigators opinion. It said that in response, hed 
reiterated two particular points  that XM had failed to act in his best interests and pressured 
him to deposit money by offering bonuses and benefits with short deadlines. The 
representative commented that customers such as Mr P were vulnerable and unaware of the 
level of risk involved, so shouldve been treated with care by XM and not pressured. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the matters been referred to ne 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As such, theres little I can usefully add to whats already been said. 
Mr Ps representative has argued that in enabling him to trade CFDs XM treated him unfairly, 
as doing so wasnt appropriate for him. It has said he didnt have the level of knowledge or 
experience to understand the risks and, further, he was pressured into continuing to deposit 
money and trade because of advice from his account manager and the bonus incentives 
provided. 
Ive considered the process through which Mr P opened his account and cant see that XM 
acted incorrectly in any way. It had a responsibility to determine whether he had a level of 
knowledge and experience of trading similar products that would mean an account was 
appropriate for him. 
As part of the process, he confirmed that hed traded shares, derivatives and OTC (over-the-
counter) products and also that he had a relevant professional qualification and/or education. 
I accept that XM doesnt appear to have sought any confirmation or additional detail 
regarding this information. But I think XM was entitled to rely upon what Mr P had said, as 
there was no reason to suggest it was out-of-date or inaccurate.
The conversations he later had with his account manager were consistent with what he had 
confirmed as part of the account opening process. While he was seeking help and support 
with various queries, he appeared knowledgeable about trading, with a grasp of the 
technicalities. Ive seen nothing that on an ongoing basis would have alerted XM to Mr P not 
actually having knowledge and experience of trading. Certainly, there was nothing to 
suggest he was vulnerable in any way, as his representative has suggested. 
Ive noted whats been said about the promotions that were sent to him  offering loyalty 
points for trades placed and bonuses for additional deposits. And I accept that the European 
Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) instigated interventions that prevented that sort of 
promotion. But that didnt come into force until August 2018, the month in which Mr P ceased 
trading. So, theres nothing to show that XM acted incorrectly in respect of the promotions. 
Ultimately, it appears that Mr P made his own decision to open the account and trade. XM 
did have a responsibility to provide its service to him in a fair and appropriate manner. But 
Ive not seen that it failed to do this. I understand the points the representative has made 
about vulnerability, lack of experience and the likelihood of this type of trading to lead to 
losses. But there was nothing to suggest Mr P was vulnerable or inexperienced and the 
account opening process was clear in explaining the risks  although I note that the ESMA 
action of 2018 did strengthen the requirements around risk warnings. However, I think Mr P 
wouldve been made reasonably aware of the risks in any event.   My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman