DRN-2866754
The complaint
Mr R complained that TM Advances Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R took out loans with TM Advances as follows:
Loan Date 
loan 
startedAmount borrowed Monthly 
repaymentLoan term
1 August 
2017£2,000 £215 24 months
2 August 
2018£4,000 £289 45 months
Both loans are paid. Loan 2 was partly used to repay loan 1 and loan 2 was cleared in April 
2021.
Mr R brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with TM Advances. In 
summary, Mr R said that TM Advances failed to carry out effective affordability assessments 
and had it done so, it wouldnt have lent to him.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. Our adjudicator didnt think TM 
Advances had provided loan 1 unfairly. But he thought that the information TM Advances 
gathered about Mr Rs financial situation, which included a credit report, shouldve prompted 
TM Advances to do more to check his financial situation before it provided loan 2  and had 
it done so, it shouldve found out that loan 2 wasnt affordable for him. 
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what TM Advances needed to do to put things 
right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint and so it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here. Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TM 
Advances relied on when it decided to lend to Mr R. 
Loan 1
As far as I can see, Mr R hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loan 1. So I dont think I need to say more about loan 1 except 
that Ive reviewed this loan and independently reached the same conclusion as our 
adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that TM Advances shouldnt have provided this 
loan  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Rs complaint.   
Loan 2
TM Advances asked Mr R about his income and expenses and carried out credit checks - 
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TM Advances 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr R. 
Mr R declared his income as £3,950 and TM Advances phoned Mr Rs workplace to check 
his employment. After it gathered information from Mr R about his regular monthly 
expenditure and carried out its own credit checks, TM Advances recorded Mr Rs general 
living costs and monthly outgoings as £2,450 and added on £520.95 to cover his spending 
on other credit. 
This appeared to leave Mr R with around £979 each month and so TM Advances felt that the 
monthly repayments of £289 he would be making on this loan were affordable for Mr R.
But TM Advances could see on its credit check that in the year or since Mr R had taken out 
loan 1, for the express purpose of clearing his short-term loans once and for all hed 
accrued substantially more debt  including further short term loans. His overall credit debt 
had increased from £9,850 when hed taken out loan 1 and was now £16,554. 
So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable to TM Advances, I think its fair to say all 
this information painted a picture that was inconsistent with what it might have expected to 
see for someone who appeared to have the amount of disposable income its checks suggested that Mr R had available each month. To my mind, this shouldve prompted TM 
Advances to carry out more thorough checks into Mr Rs financial situation before agreeing 
to lend especially since taking this loan would mean Mr R was potentially signing up to 
make the monthly repayments for the next 45 months.   
I think TM Advances should have taken steps to verify what Mr R was saying about his 
financial circumstances. TM Advances hasnt shown me it did this. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr R has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what TM 
Advances was likely to have found out had it done more in-depth checks. To be clear, Im 
not suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Rs bank statements. TM 
Advances could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a lender to 
carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of other 
evidence, I think the bank statements Mr R has sent me give a reasonable insight into his 
finances at the time. 
And had TM Advances done proportionate checking I think it wouldve likely found out that 
Mr Rs actual salary was considerably less than the figure TM Advances relied on when 
assessing affordability. Looking at his bank statements, I can see that Mr Rs take home pay 
averaged out at around £2,800 at best  around £171 less than the monthly expenditure 
figure that TM Advances had worked out he would pay each month around the time he 
applied for loan 2. So I think TM Advances wouldve likely realised, had it done a 
proportionate check, that in reality Mr R wouldnt be able to repay this loan in a way that was 
sustainable  so TM Advances shouldnt have lent to him. 
Even if Mr R had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think TM Advances was 
able to safely say this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation. 
For these reasons, I uphold the complaint about loan 2.
I havent seen enough to make me think that TM Advances acted towards Mr R in any other 
way that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress over and 
above the steps I've set out below. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has had to pay interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to 
him.
So TM Advances should do the following:
A) add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 2, but not including anything already refunded
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr R which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settledC) pay Mr R the total of A plus B.
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM 
Advances should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 2 and direct TM Advances Limited to take the steps set 
out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman