DRN-3174023
The complaint
E complains about the decision of Zurich Insurance PLC to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
E held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten by Zurich. The policy 
provided a number of areas of cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, E 
was instructed to stop carrying out much of its normal activities as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. It contacted Zurich to claim for the losses arising from this interruption to its 
business. 
Zurich declined the claim. It said that the business interruption cover provided by Es policy 
largely related to situations where damage to property had led to an interruption. And that 
COVID-19 and the pandemic had not caused such damage. It also said that the policy did 
include cover for interruption as a result of disease, but that this cover was limited to the 
diseases specified in the policy. Zurich stated that the policy did not provide cover for 
pandemics.
E complained. It said that the diseases that were listed included those that might cause a 
pandemic. It also didnt think the list of diseases was exhaustive and thought this should 
include COVID-19. And said that the terminology used in the policy was misleading. When 
Zurich didnt alter its decision, E brought its complaint to this service. It also said that it felt 
the insurance was misconceived and has argued that, effectively, it provides illusory cover 
as the diseases listed in the policy are unlikely to occur or be proven to have occurred. 
However, our Investigator didnt think Es complaint should be upheld. He felt the list of 
disease was exhaustive and that, as this did not include COVID-19, Zurich had appropriately 
applied the terms of the policy to the claim. He also did not consider the policy provided 
illusory cover and said that as well as the cover for the specified diseases, various other 
risks were covered. The Investigator also explained that if E was unhappy with the sale of 
the policy it could raise this as a separate complaint. E remained unsatisfied with the 
outcome of the current complaint, and so this complaint about the decline of its claim has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
I note E has also raised a complaint about the sale of the policy. But this is a separate matter 
and does not form part of my considerations here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on E, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover Es looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy E took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Es policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Es business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Es claim. And I think 
Zurich acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Es claim under this area of cover.
Es policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
Before setting out the wording of this extension, I think it is worth noting some of the other 
wording of the policy. The policy includes a number of words that have been given particular 
meanings. The definitions of these words are contained with a general list of the policy and 
within the separate sections. Before the general list the following is stated:
Certain words in the policy have special meanings. These meanings are given below 
or dened at the beginning of the appropriate section or sub-section. To help you 
identify these words in the policy we have printed them in italics throughout.The business interruption section of Es policy then says:
Meaning of Words

Notiable disease
Illness sustained by any person resulting from:
 food or drink poisoning
 one of the following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases :
Acute encephalitis Ophthalmia neonatorum
Acute poliomyelitis Paratyphoid fever
Bubonic Plague Rabies
Anthrax Relapsing fever
Cholera Rubella
Diphtheria Scarlet fever
Dysentery Smallpox
Legionellosis Tetanus
Legionnaires Disease Tuberculosis
Leprosy Typhoid fever
Leptospirosis Typhus fever
Malaria Viral hepatitis
Measles Viral haemorrhagic
Meningitis Whooping cough
Meningococcal Infection Yellow fever
Mumps
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them.
The section goes on to set out the cover provided, and this includes:
Loss of income and/or extra expenses as insured by this section incurred by you as 
a result of interruption or interference with the business caused by
a) any occurrence of a notifiable disease at the premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the premises
b) any discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
notifiable disease
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided E with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the foresight 
to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Zurich to include it in the policy at the 
time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Zurich intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Zurich 
deliberately chose to define notifiable disease by reference to a static list of certain 
diseases.
Despite Es comments, I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are 
included, I think its an exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.I think the purpose and effect of the policy E has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the definition of notifiable disease in the policy. There are many potential 
illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another 
type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and 
all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all the 
diseases listed in the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 (the regulations). 
This is a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on 
the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy E has. 
Including a list of specified diseases is common practice for this type of policy and this is a 
consideration I think is also relevant. As part of considering all of the circumstances of a 
complaint, I think it is appropriate to consider good industry practice. And I am not 
persuaded that including a list of specified illnesses is not good industry practice. There are 
clear reasons for an underwriter to chose to do so, as it limits the risk it is willing to insure. It 
is necessary for the underwriter to be clear in the policy that the risk insured is limited, but I 
think this policy is clear on this point. 
I do appreciate that the term notifiable disease is used both in the regulations and in Es 
policy. And that this term has a different meaning in each of these. It might have been 
preferable had Zurich used an alternative term. But I dont consider that the use of this term 
in the policy means that Es claim should be covered. I think the policy is clear about the 
meaning of this term in the policy, and I dont think it would have been understood differently 
by a reasonable person with the relevant background knowledge at the time the policy was 
entered. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
I note that the cover provided may only protect against risks that are fairly limited. But this is 
the level of risk Zurich chose to cover when underwriting the policy. And, as I say, I think this 
would have been clear at the time the policy was entered. I should stress this is not say that 
the sale of the policy was undertaken correctly or not  this is not the issue I am deciding. 
However, it is relevant in determining whether the claim should have been met to consider 
what a customer would understand they were covered for assuming they had been provided 
the appropriate information about the policy. 
For the sake of completeness, I will also say that E has raised issues in relation to consumer 
rights laws. Whilst I note its comments, as far as they relate to my consideration of Zurichs 
response to Es claim, I feel it is necessary to say that E is not a consumer. It is a 
commercial business. 
Ultimately, Es claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered 
diseases. As cover was not provided under this area of Es policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Zurichs decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Zurich should have met Es claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for E, but I hope Ive provided it with a thorough explanation of why this policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman