DRN-2883278
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited didnt agree to pay for the costs of her own 
solicitor following a claim she made against her former employer.
All reference to Aviva include its claims handlers.  
What happened
Ms A has legal expenses insurance with Aviva as part of her home insurance. In September 
2019 she returned to work following maternity leave. She had problems which led her to 
lodge a grievance against her employer in October. She made a claim on her legal expenses 
insurance in January. She said shed begun the ACAS early conciliation process and wanted 
to use her own solicitors to pursue the matter. 
Aviva said prior to the issue of proceedings her policy only covered the costs of one of its 
panel solicitors (unless there was a conflict of interest). It offered to refer the matter to a 
panel solicitor and said it would need supporting evidence in relation to the claim. Ms A said 
she wanted to use her own solicitor. Aviva confirmed this would only be possible once 
employment tribunal proceedings needed to be issued. And cover under the policy would in 
any case be subject to a positive opinion on the prospects of success of any claim. 
Ms A contacted Aviva again in April when she provided further reasons as to why she 
wanted to use her own solicitor. Aviva said that could be considered once proceedings were 
issued but the claim would still need to have reasonable prospects of success. It asked Ms A 
to forward information from her solicitor so it could get a legal opinion on this. At the end of 
April Ms A said a settlement had now been agreed with her employer through ACAS. She 
wanted Aviva to cover the legal costs shed incurred. 
Aviva said the policy didnt pay for non panel solicitor costs prior to proceedings being 
issued. And it hadnt in any case accepted the claim Ms A made. So the costs shed incurred 
hadnt been agreed by it. Our investigator thought it was fair Aviva didnt have to pay these 
costs but Ms A didnt agree. She explained that because of her circumstances she needed 
to use a local firm. She accepted a panel solicitor could have dealt with her case but said it 
wouldnt have been practical for her to use them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at the policy terms. In relation to employment disputes these provide cover 
for A dispute with your employer regarding your contract of employment including unfair 
dismissal and A breach of your legal rights under employment law. They dont cover any 
disciplinary or grievance procedures at work. But at the point Ms A got in touch with Aviva it 
appears shed exhausted the internal grievance procedure at her employer as shed started 
the ACAS early conciliation process. So this was a claim her policy could potentially cover. 
But I dont think thats the key issue here. Both as a matter of law, and under the terms and 
conditions of the policy, policyholders generally cant choose their own solicitor to act on 
their behalf until its necessary to issue legal proceedings. Ms A has referenced some 
sections of the policy she thinks apply here. However, I think the relevant one is within the 
Claims section which says If court proceedings are issued, there is a conflict of interest or 
if we consider the claim to be complex and requiring a specialist lawyer, you are free to 
choose your own lawyer by sending us their name and address.
Thats in line with regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990 which says: where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is 
had to a lawyer (or other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, 
represent or serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured 
shall be free to choose that lawyer (or other person). 
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry (which could include an 
Employment Tribunal). But Ms As case never reached that stage. So this doesnt apply. 
However, there are some circumstances in which it might nevertheless be fair and 
reasonable to allow a policyholder to instruct their choice of solicitor sooner which are 
included in the policy terms. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest there was a conflict of interest here. And while Ms A 
has referenced the amount of evidence that needed to be reviewed in her case, I dont think 
that in itself shows the case was particularly complex or wasnt one a panel solicitor could 
have dealt with; in fact Ms A has accepted that a panel solicitor could have done so. I do 
appreciate that she had health and childcare issues which made things more difficult for her 
and I understand why she wanted a local solicitor to deal with the matter. But I dont think 
those issues would have prevented a panel solicitor from doing so. So I dont think Aviva 
acted unfairly in saying it wouldnt cover the costs of Ms As own solicitor. 
In addition its a condition of Ms As policy that a claim has reasonable prospects of success 
(so how likely it is that Ms A would win her case). The policy also says that it wont pay 
costs and expenses which are incurred prior to our written agreement and authorisation. 
In this case Aviva hasnt carried out a prospects assessment. Initially it wasnt provided with 
information in relation to that. And after it was the case was settled through the ACAS 
process before an opinion on that could be reached. So its never accepted this as a valid 
claim. And the claim was settled without Aviva having any involvement. It didnt provide any 
authorisation for the costs incurred or have any input into this process. I dont think I could 
fairly ask Aviva to now pay, or contribute to, the costs Ms A incurred. 
 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman