DRN-4131324
The complaint
Mr H complains MS Amlin Insurance SE has unfairly declined a claim under his marine 
insurance policy.
Any reference to MS Amlin includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr H is the owner of a canal boat for which he has marine insurance. The policy is 
underwritten by MS Amlin. 
On 22 December 2022, Mr Hs boat started taking in water to both the interior and 
engine compartment. A rescue service  who Ill refer to as C  towed his boat to a 
secure location to have the water pumped out and the damaged surveyed. 
Following a subsequent flooding a few days later, C reported the flooding could have 
been caused from two possible sources. The first being damaged plumbing caused 
by ice. The second being cabin roof rainwater entering the engine compartment due 
to already inadequate drains being blocked. 
MS Amlin declined the claim saying the damage had occurred due to gradual 
deterioration as the drains were inadequate. It said the flooding wasnt sudden and 
unforeseen because Mr H was aware of the freezing weather conditions but didnt 
take preventative measures in respect of the plumbing. It said Mr H hadnt removed 
his boat from the water  even though a service in November said repairs were 
required  and so hed not mitigated his losses. It added Mr H hadnt demonstrated 
the correct use of anti-freeze.
Mr H disagreed he said: he couldnt have foreseen ice blocking the drainage 
channels; hed topped up the anti-freeze correctly and kept the engine fired regularly; 
he hadnt been advised to remove his vessel from the water. 
Mr H remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and upheld it. She was more persuaded the damage was a result of a 
sudden, one-off event caused by extreme weather conditions. And she wasnt 
satisfied the insurer had demonstrated Mr H had failed to take preventative measures 
regarding frost or freezing. So, she said MS Amlin should cover the claim subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
MS Amlin disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and am upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The crux of MS Amlins argument is that the damage to Mr Hs boat was due to 
gradual deterioration. It considers the vessels most recent service report to support 
its position as repairs were recommended in it. It also considers Mr H to have not 
taken adequate measures to prevent damage being caused by frost or freezing 
temperatures.
Its not in dispute that when Mr Hs boat was serviced a month prior to the damage 
occurring, the engineer carrying out the service made recommendations for certain 
repairs to be completed which included: the bowman end cap being replaced as 
cracking was visible; wiring being moved from the isolator switch directly to the 
battery; replacing the glow plugs as starting was sluggish. 
So, whilst I accept repairs were recommended, I must keep in mind the engineer said 
the bowman end cap wasnt leaking, the bilge pump was fully operational, and it was 
only best practice that the glow plugs be replaced. 
But of particular note  and why I dont consider these recommendations to absolve 
MS Amlin of responsibility for covering the claim - are the technical directors 
comments from the company who carried out the service, which say: please note 
that none of these [repairs] required the boat to be lifted out of the water and none of 
them would have caused the boat to take on water.  
So, Im not satisfied theres a causative link between the repairs which were 
recommended during the service and the damage which occurred in December 
2022. And as MS Amlin hasnt supplied expert evidence to the contrary, Im not 
persuaded it can fairly rely on the gradual deterioration exclusion to decline Mr Hs 
claim. 
I also dont consider it reasonable for the business to suggest Mr H hadnt taken 
reasonable steps to mitigate his loss by not removing his boat from the water. I say 
this because again, according to the servicing companys technical director, 
removing it from the water wasnt necessary. And MS Amlin hasnt provided 
persuasive evidence to explain why it was. 
Ive also kept in mind that Mr H has said he regularly attended his boat  as he had 
to move it every two weeks - and had visited four days prior to the date of loss. Hes 
explained he topped up the anti-freeze and ran the engine each time he visited. And I 
see no reason to not take what hes said in good faith.  
With regards to the weather conditions, reports show the temperature fell to below 
freezing around the time of loss. Given the plumbing was found to have been 
damaged by ice  and because Im not persuaded the damage was because of 
gradual deterioration  I think its more likely the damage occurred because of 
extreme weather conditions. And not because Mr H failed to take preventative 
measures in respect of frost and freezing. 
So, on balance, Im not satisfied MS Amlin has demonstrated it can fairly rely on the exclusions it has to decline Mr Hs claim and it should, therefore, cover the claim 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct MS Amlin Insurance SE to cover the 
claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman