DRN-3502697
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as X, is unhappy that Barclays Bank Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, closed its account without notification. 
What happened
X held a business credit account with Barclays. In October 2020, X noticed that it could no 
longer access its account online and so contacted Barclays, whereupon it was informed that 
the account had been closed because X hadnt responded to a request for Know Your 
Customer (KYC) information sent to X by Barclays at the beginning of 2021. X wasnt 
happy about this, so it raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Xs complaint. It confirmed that the account had been closed in March 
2020, but it acknowledged that X had been inconvenienced by not being able to access the 
account information online when completing a tax return, and by the time spent having to 
chase the matter with Barclays. Because of this, Barclays apologised to X and made a 
payment of £200 compensation to it. But Barclays also confirmed that they would be unable 
to reopen the credit account as X would like.
X wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Barclays hadnt been able to 
provide confirmation of when it had sent the KYC information request letters to X as would 
generally be expected, and they felt that the compensation that Barclays had paid to X didnt 
take sufficient account of the inconvenience that X had in all likelihood incurred. So, they 
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Xs favour, and that Barclays should pay a 
further £250 compensation to X.
Neither X or Barclays agreed with the recommendation made by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Id like to begin by confirming the remit of this service. Specifically, while this 
service takes account of relevant laws and regulations, this service isnt a regulatory body or 
a Court of Law. As such, it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a business to make 
changes to its operating procedures or to declare that a point of law has or hasnt been 
broken. Instead, the remit of this service is based on fairness of outcome.
In this instance, Barclays confirm that it closed Xs account because X didnt respond to KYC 
information requests that were sent to X in the post by Barclays in the first few months of 
2020. But X maintains that it didnt receive those information requests and feels that 
Barclays closed its account without any notification of its intent to do so.
Barclays havent been able to provide any evidence which confirms that it did send the KYC 
information requests to X that it claims it did, either in the form of copies of the letters 
addressed to X or in the form of system notes that record the sending of the letters. Barclays 
have advised that this is because these KYC letters are automatically generated by its 
systems and because at the time in question it was experiencing a high volume of similar 
requests being generated which meant as a consequence that copies of the letters or 
confirmatory system notes werent produced or retained.
On the other hand, X maintains that no such KYC information requests were ever received 
by it, and its difficult to dispute Xs position here, given the absence of records held by 
Barclays in this regard, as described above.
What is clear is that a process began within Barclays that culminated with Xs account being 
closed in March 2020 because of the non-receipt of requested information from X. I dont 
feel that its likely that this process would have started spontaneously or mistakenly. But 
while I feel that it is more likely than not that Barclays did send the KYC request letters to X 
as it maintains, I also remain open to the possibility that this might not have been the case.
Additionally, Ive also reviewed the monthly account statements sent by Barclays to X, and I 
note that there appears to be nothing on the statements sent following the closure of the 
account in March 2020 that would give X any indication that its account had been closed. 
Indeed, I note that following the account closure, the monthly account statements continued 
to list an amount of credit as being available to X to spend. 
So, it seems clear to me that how Barclays have communicated with X here has fallen below 
the standard which X should reasonably expect to receive. And this is especially the case 
given that Barclays own system notes state that it tried to contact X about the KYC request 
by letter, email, and by telephone, but that Barclays have since confirmed that that particular 
note is also system generated and that they in fact only ever attempted to contact X by letter.
Given that I feel that it is more likely than not, on balance, that Barclays did send the KYC 
request letters to X, but that Barclays have failed to accurately record the sending of these 
letters, it follows that I wont be instructing Barclays to reopen Xs credit account as X may 
want.
I also note that the impact to X of whats happened here appears not to have been 
significant. In arriving at this conclusion Ive considered Xs infrequent use of the account, 
the relatively low account balance, and the fact that X didnt become aware that the account 
had been closed until approximately six months after the account closure. Ive also 
considered Xs own testimony to Barclays and this service on this matter. 
That being said, I do acknowledge that X has been inconvenienced here, and I dont feel that 
the £200 that Barclays have already paid X does provide fair and reasonable compensation 
for that inconvenience including for the poor standard of service that X has received from 
Barclays. And this is especially the case given that the complaint response letter issued by 
Barclays to X confirms that only £100 of that £200 compensation amount was for the service 
issues that X experienced, with the other £100 being to cover Xs time spent chasing 
Barclays to resolve the complaint.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator felt that the payment of an additional £250 
compensation by Barclays to X would provide a more reasonable amount of compensation 
to X for what has happened here. And having taken all the circumstances of this complaint 
into consideration, I also feel that the payment of this further £250 compensation would 
provide a fair resolution to what has happened. 
Had Barclays been able to provide definite confirmation of when the KYC letters were sent to X, then I would almost certainly feel differently here. But on the basis of the information I 
have available to me, while I feel that its more likely than not that Barclays did send such 
letters to X, the possibility also remains that not all the letters were sent as should have been 
the case, and Im also mindful that Barclays dont appear to have communicated the fact that 
the account was closed to X following the account closure.
Im aware that X feel that a far greater amount of compensation should be awarded here. 
But I dont share Xs position, and I note that some aspects of Xs position on this matter 
refer to points of law, which as explained earlier, it isnt within the remit of this service to 
make a decision on. 
I also note that X has also referenced further points of complaint beyond the closing of the 
account by Barclays. However, given that this service can only consider complaint points 
that a business has themselves already had the opportunity to consider and respond to, Im 
unable to consider these further complaint points at this time. If X continues to want to raise 
these further complaint points, I can only refer X back to Barclays, so that X can raise those 
further points of complaint with Barclays, so that Barclays can have the opportunity to 
consider and respond to them.
X has also stated that it feels that given that Barclays have closed the account, that the 
outstanding balance that remains on the account should be written off by Barclays. But any 
outstanding balance on the account would stem from account usage by X or by the 
legitimate accrual of interest on the account, and in such circumstances it will almost always 
be the case that this service will consider it fair that the account holder should remain liable 
to repay that balance. And I can confirm that I feel that thats the case in this instance.
Finally, I do note that X has stated that its unhappy that Barclays charged a £32 annual 
account fee in March 2020, which was the month that it closed the account. I can appreciate 
Xs position here, and I can confirm that Ive taken it into consideration when arriving at the 
further £250 compensation amount that Ill be instructing Barclays to pay.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I do uphold this complaint in Xs favour 
on the basis outlined above and that my instruction to Barclays will be that it must make a 
further payment of £250 compensation to X, which I feel provides a fair resolution to what 
has taken place here.
I realise that this outcome may not be to the liking of either X or Barclays, but I hope that 
both parties will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that 
I have. 
Putting things right
Barclays must make an additional payment of £250 to X.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank Plc, trading as 
Barclaycard, on the basis described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman