DRN-2920742
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. He isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under his motor warranty.
  
What happened
Mr A made a claim under his motor warranty after he had a problem with his car. Mr A took 
his car to a main dealer to repair and the mechanic identified a problem with his timing chain 
which was stretched. But Red Sands turned down the claim.
Red Sands appointed an engineer to look at the car and he concluded that the problems 
with the timing chain werent caused by a sudden mechanical failure. Red Sands felt the 
chain was stretched due to the failing of the timing chain tensioners which were excluded 
under the policy terms and conditions. As Mr A didnt agree he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A and upheld his complaint. He thought that Mr A 
had provided sufficient evidence, in the form of a video from the repairing garage, to show 
that the tensioners were working fine and so he thought Red Sands should pay the claim. 
As Red Sands didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Red Sands position but ultimately I agree with our investigator that there 
isnt enough evidence to support its position and Im upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I know Red Sands feels that its independent engineer has provided evidence to show that 
the timing chain sensors failed causing the difficulties with the timing chain. Its engineers 
report says that the tensioner had no signs of mechanical failure, but the pre-tension spring 
appeared to be weaker than expected. And went on to suggest that the timing chain failed 
as a result of in-service, age related deterioration of the timing chain tensioner. 
So, this does open the possibility that the tensioner (which is excluded under the policy) 
caused the problems that Mr A faced with his car and the timing chain. However, the 
repairing garage said that the timing chain had simply stretched and provided a video 
showing the tensioners were fully working and said that both spring pressure and tensioners 
are absolutely fine in their operation.
I find the repairing mechanics evidence the most persuasive in the circumstances of this 
case. I would have expected Red Sands to revisit its position and consider getting a further 
expert opinion or, at the very least, get its original engineer to reconsider their position and 
comment on Mr As mechanics opinion. I know Red Sands have suggested that Mr As 
mechanic is biased towards him as he is their customer. But I havent seen anything to doubt 
Mr As mechanics credentials and I dont think he would look to bring his companys good 
name into question by being untruthful. Ultimately, Im satisfied that he has given an honest 
opinion based on his repair of the car and his position is supported by video evidence. And 
as the mechanic who stripped the car and looked to repair it, I find this persuasive.
Given all of this and Red Sands failure to identify the cause of the timing chains failure. I 
dont think it would be fair to exclude the claim because the timing chain had stretched due 
to the failings of the timing chain tensioners (which are specifically excluded under the 
policy). As such, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Red Sands to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman