DRN-1326873
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 In 2005 Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr 
and Mrs M for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly 
benefit of £1145.37. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main questions I need to consider are:
If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there were shortcomings in the way Halifax sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs M during a meeting with an adviser from Halifax, who was 
recommending insurance products. Mr and Mrs M say they thought they had to have the PPI 
and also that they didnt need it because they both had generous employment benefits. 
Halifax says none of its records show that the PPI was anything other than optional.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and Halifax when they 
were discussing the mortgage and PPI. I accept there is a possibility Halifax said it was a good idea to take out PPI in order to protect the mortgage repayments, but I dont consider 
that to be incorrect. The records from the meeting show that Mr and Mrs M wanted to protect 
their mortgage with both life protection and PPI for both of them and critical illness cover for 
Mrs M only. So it does seem that Mr and Mrs M were making choices about the insurance 
they wanted. Halifax confirmed the results of the meeting in writing, and this letter also 
provided Mr and Mrs M with instructions of how they could cancel any of the insurance they 
nought  including the PPI  without risk to their mortgage. I cant see anything on the 
paperwork that suggests that Mr and Mrs M had to have the PPI. 
Overall, I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and they chose 
to take it. 
I am also satisfied the policy was suitable given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and I say this 
because:
Both Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
The policy was split in order to cover both Mr and Mrs M, and appears to have been 
done so in line with their respective earnings at the time. That seems appropriate to 
me. 
Both Mr and Mrs M say they would have received some work-related benefits if either 
of them couldnt work due to illness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to the occupational benefits and for Mrs M in particular would do so, it 
seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs M could use 
their work-related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and 
Mrs M would have had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations. 
The fact find from the meeting gives the cost of the PPI. I cant be sure that Mr and 
Mrs M were given a copy of this at the time. But, even if Mr and Mrs M didnt know 
the exact amount of the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might 
have known approximately what it was. Ultimately, I think Mr and Mrs M were aware 
they had to pay something for the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet their total monthly mortgage 
repayments.
Its possible that some of the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to have 
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr 
and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman