DRN-3614493
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) handled her 
claim for a refund in respect of a course she purchased but did not complete.
What happened
Mrs L signed up to a professional course with a supplier Ill call E in September 2020. The 
cost of the course was £2,369 and Mrs L paid a deposit of £236.90, funding the remainder 
via a fixed sum loan with Omni. 
It was a requirement of the course that Mrs L gained relevant employment within the 
profession and a coursework element of it did not begin until that had happened. 
Having gained employment in October 2020 Mrs L left the role shortly after, explaining to E 
at the time that she was not happy with the responsibilities assigned to her by her employer 
 although Mrs L later said the reason was because of the requirement for her to wear heavy 
duty rubber face masks which she said caused anxiety and stress. 
Very shortly after this and still in October 2020 Mrs L decided that the profession was not for 
her. She asked E if she could cancel the course and get her money back. E said she was 
outside a 14 day cooling off period and therefore the terms of her contract did not permit a 
refund if she cancelled the course.  
Mrs L asked Omni to look at her claim. She said the course had not been properly explained 
to her. She said she wasnt told she wouldnt get all of the learning material until she was in 
relevant employment or that it would be a requirement of employers that she wear heavy 
duty rubber face masks.  She later said E also made false promises about the level of 
support and guidance that would be provided by a tutor. 
Omni said the features of the course had been clearly explained by E before Mrs L signed 
up to it and declined to cancel or write off Mrs Ls loan. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He said there had not been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E so Mrs L did not have a valid claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). And he said Omni had treated Mrs L 
appropriately when she told it shed struggle to make the loan repayments. 
Mrs L did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ls agreement with Omni is a regulated fixed sum loan so I am able to consider a 
complaint against it by her. 
In this case I am looking at whether Omni acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Mrs Ls claim, taking into account its obligations and any potential liability to her.  
Under Section 75 Mrs L can bring a claim against Omni if there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by E. There are other criteria  such as the service being 
within certain monetary limits and there being a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  but 
these have all been met in this case.
Ive given careful thought to what Mrs L said about not being properly informed about the 
way the course would work before she signed up to it and what happened after this. And Ive 
considered whether any this amounted to a breach of contract of misrepresentation. 
If Mrs L was told something about the course by E, that was important to her decision to sign 
up to it and which turned out to be false, or if information was presented in a way that was 
misleading, that might be a misrepresentation, (or misdescription which could give rise to a 
claim for breach of contract). 
It looks like Mrs L had discussions with E before she signed up to the course, and E followed 
these up with an email where it gave a general overview of the course.  This email said that 
the course fees included an online basic life support course, record of experience portfolio 
an online textbook and exam fees as well as other less tangible items such an online tutor to 
help guide students through the process and assistance finding employment.
From what I have seen however there was no misrepresentation or misdescription of these 
items. E explained to Mrs L before she signed up to the course that students enrolled on it 
must be working either full time or part time within the relevant practice area and that the 
record of experience would not commence until this had been achieved. So, I think Mrs L 
would most likely have known that some of the course was contingent upon being in relevant 
employment and it looks like she was willing to sign up to it on this basis. 
And while Mrs L said she was made false promises about the level of support she would 
receive from a tutor and in respect of finding of employment, Ive not seen evidence that 
persuades me of this. For example, E has supplied evidence of emails it sent to Mrs L 
discussing vacancies which might be suitable for her, along with CV and interview tips. And 
Mrs L was successful in applying for one of these vacancies not long after she signed up to 
the course. In the short time between signing up to the course in September 2020 and 
asking to cancel it in October 2020, Mrs L also looked to have been in fairly regular contact 
with a designated representative of E both via email and over the phone  who answered 
Mrs Ls questions about the course and about seeking employment.
It was an implied term of Mrs Ls contract with E that services would be performed with 
reasonable care and skill. But I havent seen evidence that persuades me there was a failure 
in this respect in the way Mrs L has suggested. Ive not seen anything that suggests the 
necessary material was not going to be supplied to Mrs L at the appropriate time. She didnt 
receive the record of experience paperwork because she wasnt in employment long enough 
and had asked to cancel the course before shed been enrolled with the body responsible for 
that part of it. And as the investigator has explained, there may have been some isolated 
incidents of bad customer service but that doesnt mean overall the service was not 
performed with reasonable care and skill. Ive not seen evidence of Mrs L asking for help for 
example that she did not receive (within the context of what she was promised).
Mrs L also said she would not have signed up to the course had she known she would have 
to wear the more heavy-duty style of face mask once she was in employment. I wouldnt 
expect the pre contract information to contain such detail in this particular case. Its possible 
that different employers had different requirements of its staff in this respect and I dont think 
E could reasonably have known what these differences would be. Irrespective of this however I remind myself again that Omni is only liable to Mrs L under Section 75 for 
breaches of contract or misrepresentations by E and I dont think this particular complaint 
point fits with either of these. From what Ive seen E made no representations about the kind 
of personal protective equipment that might or might not be required by prospective 
employers or anything else that might have been misleading in this respect. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs L said about it being unfair that she has to pay for the 
whole course when she has received no benefit from it having cancelled so soon. I do 
sympathise with the position Mrs L finds herself in. But it wouldnt be fair for me to require 
Omni to cancel or write off Mrs Ls loan for this reason alone when it has presumably paid 
the funds already to E and when there would essentially be no way for Omni to get it back 
from E  there having been no breach of contract of misrepresentation.  
Mrs L has said the term which does not permit refunds upon cancellation of the course after 
14 days is unfair and as per the provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 should not be 
binding on her. She has likened the term with one of the terms in Schedule 2 of the CRA - 
known sometimes as the grey list of terms which may be considered unfair. The term she 
has referred to says: 
A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer decides not to
conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a disproportionately 
high sum in compensation or for services which have not been supplied.
I dont think the term in Mrs Ls contract had such object or effect however. The kind of term 
described in Schedule 2  looks to be where the trader seeks to charge a disproportionate fee 
of some kind upon cancellation1, not where the service(s)have already been paid for and the 
term does not permit a refund in the event of cancellation  as was the case here. But even 
if a court were to find the clause was unfair and not binding as per the CRA, that wouldnt 
leave Mrs L any better off. There is no contractual entitlement to a refund in the event of 
cancellation elsewhere in Es terms. So there still wouldnt be a breach of contract. 
Overall, I recognise the difficult position Mrs L now finds herself having paid for a course that 
she found was not a good fit for her. But I dont find Omni treated Mrs L unfairly in the way it 
handled her claim.  Omnis liability under Section 75 is limited to breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by E and Ive not seen evidence that persuades me either of these have 
occurred in this case. 
Mrs L has been paying considerably reduced payments to Omni since early 2021 having 
made it aware shortly before this that she was experiencing financial difficulties. From what 
Ive seen this looks to have been a reasonable concession. I remind Omni however of its 
ongoing obligation to treat Mrs L with forbearance and due consideration in respect of any 
financial difficulties she may continue to encounter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
1https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2015/15/notes/division/3/2/3/2 