DRN-3339508
The complaint
Mrs H complains about problems shes had accessing her Lloyds Bank PLC online 
accounts.
Mrs H is represented by her husband, Mr H.
What happened
Mrs H lost access to her online banking and wasnt able to gain access again until she 
visited a branch. Mr H complained about this on behalf of Mrs H. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr H referred the complaint to us. 
Lloyds objected to us considering the complaint as it said it hadnt been referred to us within 
the timescales set out in our rules. One of our ombudsmen looked into this complaint initially 
to decide whether the complaints had been referred to us in time. She said there were 
essentially two complaint points  that Mrs H had been locked out of her online banking 
services and that Mrs H had difficulty changing her password.
The ombudsman decided that the first complaint point about being locked out of the online 
services hadnt been referred to us in time so we couldnt consider it. But, she said that 
Mrs Hs complaint that she had difficulty changing her password had been referred to us in 
time, so we could consider the merits of this complaint point. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs Hs complaint about the difficulty she had in 
changing her password. But she didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree. He said 
theyd been misled into believing Mrs H was set up for telephone banking for 15 years 
without correction. He felt that Lloyds had been discourteous during one of the phone calls 
with Mrs H. 
Mr H asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to 
consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should explain that another ombudsman has already decided that part of this 
complaint is outside of our jurisdiction  Mrs H being locked out of her online banking. So, 
Im not going to consider that point here further. I am going to consider the remaining part of 
this complaint though.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H are considerably upset by this matter. Mr H has presented the 
complaint to us, and responded to our investigators opinion, in detail. I want to reassure 
Mr and Mrs H that Ive considered everything theyve said. However, I may not specifically 
address each and every point Mr H has made. Thats not because I havent thought about it. 
Its simply due to the informal nature of our service as an alternative to the courts. Instead, 
Im going to focus on what I consider the crux of this complaint. That is the difficulty Mrs H 
had in changing her password.
Lloyds has explained to us that in order to reset a password, it either needs to contact the 
consumer itself on the registered phone number or the customer needs to visit a branch. 
Mrs H called Lloyds to try to reset her password as this is what the information on the 
internet banking page told her to do. Lloyds has told us it would normally be able to send a 
one-time password to the registered mobile number of the customer or call that number to 
go through security. However, Mrs Hs telephone number had changed and needed to be 
updated. Mrs H asked to do this, but wasnt able to do so on the phone because she had 
only partially been set up for telephone banking. 
Mr H has said that the account had been showing as being registered for telephone banking 
for 15 years so this was clearly a long-term mistake and a problem with Lloyds systems. It 
seems that Mrs H started to register for telephone banking in 2005 but this wasnt 
completed. Due to the passage of time, Im not going to know whether the failure of this 
being completed was down to Lloyds or Mrs H. However, its clear this hasnt been of great 
inconvenience to Mrs H until recently given that 15 years had passed without her realising 
she hadnt been fully set up for telephone banking..
I appreciate Mrs H wouldve been inconvenienced by the fact that she wasnt able to change 
her telephone number there and then which in turn meant she couldnt reset her password. 
But its also worth noting that had Mrs H informed Lloyds of her telephone number change 
sooner, this might have been avoided. The person she spoke with did offer to send out a 
security number in the post to restore her access. Mrs H declined this as it would take four to 
five days. But I think this was a reasonable offer in the circumstances. Mrs H was told she 
could go to a branch, but also chose not to at this time.
Banks are required to have a certain level of security in place to protect consumers details. 
And its ultimately down to a bank to decide on these measures. Mrs H hadnt updated her 
telephone number with Lloyds, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask Mrs H 
to take additional steps to amend her telephone number and reset her access to online 
services. As Ive explained, she was given two options to regain access. And Im satisfied 
they were reasonable in these circumstances. Whilst neither was acceptable to Mrs H, Im 
not sure what other steps Lloyds couldve suggested.
Ive also thought about what Mr H has said about Lloyds being discourteous in suggesting 
Mrs H may wish to consider another bank. I can understand why Mrs H may have felt this 
rude. But I dont think this was intended to be. Mrs H was clearly frustrated by Lloyds not 
being able to help at this time and made her thoughts clear on what she thought about 
Lloyds systems. So, the suggestion that another bank may be more suitable for her wasnt 
an unreasonable one.
Whilst I recognise Mrs H has been inconvenienced by this matter, Im satisfied Lloyds took 
reasonable steps to try to help and I dont think compensation is warranted in the 
circumstances. Mrs H was able to gain access to her accounts online once she visited a 
branch, so this has now been resolved. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman