DRN-3257555
The complaint
Mr C has complained that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account in January 2002.
Mr C says that he was led to believe that he had to have a fee-paying Advantage Gold 
account, so that he could increase the overdraft limit on his account.
What happened
Mr C opened a fee-free account in 1990, which was changed to a fee-free Current Plus 
account in March 1995. This account was then upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Gold 
packaged account in January 2002.
NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account and transferred all Advantage Gold 
accounts, including Mr Cs, onto a Select Platinum in July 2015. As this was essentially a 
rebranding of the account, weve treated this as being a continuation of the Advantage Gold 
account, rather than as a separate sale, for the purposes of this complaint.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think the Advantage Gold 
account had been mis-sold. Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont think that the Advantage Gold account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available. 
This means that I cant just consider Mr Cs recollection of events on their own. Instead, I 
must weigh them up and compare them with all of the evidence that both he and NatWest 
have been able to provide.
Mr C has said that he was sold the Advantage Gold account because he was led to believe 
that it was his only way to get a greater overdraft limit. Unfortunately, due to how long ago 
the account was sold to Mr C, there is, quite understandably, no record of what was 
discussed with Mr C during the sale of the account. So I have considered Mr Cs 
recollections of events alongside everything that is available.
NatWest has been able to provide a record of Mr Cs overdraft history. From this, I can see 
that before Mr C agreed to the Advantage Gold account, hed increased his overdraft limit as 
follows:
£200 March 1995
Increased to £300 September 1995
Reduced to £250 December 1997
Increased to £400 March 1998
Increased to £700 January 1999
Increased to £900 January 2000
Increased to £1,100 March 2001
Increased to £1,200 November 2001
I note that Mr C then increased his overdraft limit again to £1,800 in August 2003  which 
was around 18 months after hed agreed to the Advantage Gold account. Mr C has 
explained that the reason why there was such a delay between him upgrading his account 
and applying to increase his limit again, was because hed received an unexpected lump 
sum of money. So he says he did not need an overdraft until mid-2003.
When the account was sold to Mr C, it cost £6 per month, and included a number of benefits 
including lower rates of interest on loans, mortgages and overdrafts - compared to what was 
available on fee-free accounts. 
When taking everything into account, Im not able to say that its more likely than not that the 
only reason why Mr C agreed to the account was because he was led to believe it was his 
only way to increase his overdraft limit. I say this because firstly, Mr Cs recollections relate 
to an event that took place over 19 years ago, so Im mindful that recollections can fade and 
change over time. I can also see that hed been able to increase his limit, without any 
problem, a number of times before he agreed to the Advantage Gold account  including an 
increase only two months before the upgrade. This makes me think that in January 2002, Mr 
C was generally aware that he didnt need a fee-paying account to be able to increase his 
overdraft. 
Furthermore, as Mr C was clearly intending to increase the overdraft limit to a sizable 
amount, I think its just as likely that Mr C was told that the Advantage Gold account would 
allow him to reduce the interest rate hed be charged on his overdraft, and so he agreed to 
the account because of the benefits it provided.
Therefore, I am unable to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr C was led to 
believe he had to upgrade to an Advantage Gold account be able to increase his overdraft 
limit. 
NatWest says that the Advantage Gold account was sold to Mr C on a non-advised basis. 
This means that NatWest wouldve explained what benefits were included with the account 
and then it wouldve been up to the consumer to decide whether to upgrade or not. 
Whereas, Mr C has said that he was advised to take it. But, based on what Mr C and 
NatWest have said, Im not persuaded that NatWest assessed Mr Cs circumstances or that 
it recommended the account because it had identified Mr C had a particular need for it. So I 
think that the account was likely to have been sold on a non-advised basis. This means 
NatWest didnt have to check if it was right for Mr C, but it still had to give him the important 
information about the account, so he could decide for himself if it would be worth taking.Unfortunately, due to the time scales involved, I dont know what information Mr C was given 
during the sale of the account. But I think its likely that the general features of the account 
wouldve been explained to Mr C, after all NatWest wouldve wanted to have made the 
account seem attractive to Mr C so hed agree to it. And it seems that Mr C was made aware 
that there was a monthly fee for the account too. I accept its possible that Mr C may not 
have been given all of the important information that he shouldve been provided with during 
the sale. But Ive not seen anything about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, that makes me 
think that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even 
more information about it. 
I understand that with the benefit of hindsight, Mr C may now feel that the account has been 
poor value for money and he may now regret agreeing to it. But that in itself does not mean 
that it was mis-sold. Im also mindful that the account costs and benefits have changed a fair 
bit over the years that Mr C held the account. So it may be the case that, over time, it was no 
longer as useful to Mr C as he initially thought it would be. But again, this does not mean that 
NatWest was acting unfairly or unreasonably by selling the account to him when it did.
Therefore, when weighing everything up, on balance, Im unable to say that the Advantage 
Gold account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman