DRN-1672043
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) reported incorrect 
information to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mrs H is represented by her son. For ease my reference to things Mrs H has said includes 
her representatives comments and actions. 
In March 2013 BOS moved their customers mortgage accounts to a new system. During this 
move Mrs Hs profile was incorrectly merged with another customer. This meant when the 
other customers mortgage account fell into arrears Mrs H started to receive correspondence 
in relation to it. These letters stopped when the other customers mortgage account had 
been brought back up to date by being redeemed. However, the link between the two 
customers remained on the CRAs records.
Mrs H has said since 2013 this has resulted in several mortgage applications being declined.
BOS accepts an error was made and says it contacted the relevant CRAs to have the 
information corrected once it was made aware of the issue. 
In May 2019 BOS says although it couldnt be certain that the mortgage applications had 
been wholly declined due to their error it agreed it would request the CRAs to remove the 
three soft or hard searches that had been done for mortgage applications that had been 
declined. It also sent Mrs H £1,000 in compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience the error caused.
At the time of bringing the complaint to this service not all the CRA records had been 
updated and Mrs H wanted this rectified. She also felt the compensation didnt reflect the 
impact the error had caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said although it was clear there had 
been a mistake, he felt BOS had acted in good faith in trying to have the CRA information 
rectified and, he felt the £1,000 it had already paid in compensation was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman. So, the complaint has been come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Its important to note Im only considering the complaint about BOSs actions and I cant hold 
it responsible for the CRAs actions.
In this case there is no dispute that BOS made an error, and it agrees Mrs Hs records with 
the CRAs should be corrected. 
BOS has accepted it made a mistake, apologised, and its now put them right as the CRAs 
have all been corrected. I need to decide whether its mistakes led to any financial loss for 
Mrs H and whether BOS should compensate her any further for any distress and 
inconvenience this has caused her.
Mrs H has said she applied for credit and also made mortgage applications which were 
unsuccessful in the period of 2013-2019. There are a number of factors that a lender takes 
into account when deciding whether to lend or not. I havent been given any direct evidence 
which leads me to conclude that the mortgage applications and other credit Mrs H mayve 
applied for was declined solely because of the information BOS had recorded against Mrs H.
 
As a result, based on what Ive been given, I dont think it would be fair to hold BOS 
responsible for any financial losses related to these unsuccessful applications. 
However, I dont doubt this has clearly been a very distressing experience for Mrs H. She 
thought she was a victim of identity theft and this caused her stress and worry. So, Ive 
thought about BOS actions once it discovered this issue. From what Ive seen Mrs H 
approached BOS in 2014 regarding the letters she was receiving, and then I cant see that 
there was any further contact with it until March 2019. 
It was at this point all parties became aware of the issue and in April 2019 BOS contacted all 
three CRAs to delete the address link. And in May 2019 Mrs H also asked for the searches 
that had been done for mortgage applications to be removed. So, it seems to me BOS did try 
to rectify this issue once it became known.
I understand it has taken a number of months to get the information rectified to the point that 
when Mrs H first came to this service one of the CRAs still hadnt fully made the 
amendments  although I understand it has now. Having looked at the evidence I can see 
BOS made several requests for the amendments to be made. And in my opinion, it acted in 
good faith in trying to get the error rectified and I havent seen any unnecessary delays in the 
process on its part. 
With regards to the latter issues with last CRA. Our investigator contacted the CRA directly 
to see why Mrs Hs file hadnt been rectified. It showed us that it responded to BOS in July 
2019 and it had requested more information to make the changes. It says it didnt get a 
response. However, BOS can find no record of receiving this request. 
Ive seen in September 2019 Mrs H was continuing to try and get the CRA to amend the 
details. It referred her back to the complaint handler at BOS. I can appreciate this back and 
forth wouldve been frustrating. And it has taken this service to become involved for further 
requests to be sent and to finally get this resolved. I appreciate Mrs H feels the 
compensation should be increased. However, Im not persuaded that BOS has made further 
errors and I think it has actively tried to get the initial error rectified. As a result, Im satisfied 
the £1,000 compensation already paid by BOS is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman