DRN-2913902
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc turned down a mortgage application he 
made because its surveyor said the building his flat is in is affected by cladding and needed 
an EWS1 form.
What happened
Mr L applied to NatWest for a mortgage on a flat he already owned  he was looking to 
re-mortgage from another lender.
As part of considering his application, NatWest instructed a surveyor to value the property. 
The surveyor said that the property didnt meet NatWests lending criteria. He said that there 
was external wall cladding on part of the building and until an External Wall System form 
(EWS1) was completed by the building owner, it wouldnt be clear if the cladding was safe or 
combustible, whether remedial work would be needed and if so how much it would cost. The 
surveyor said that until that was known, he couldnt value the property. But if remedial work 
was carried out, it would be worth £194,000.
NatWest therefore turned down Mr Ls mortgage application. Mr L complained. He said there 
was no cladding on the building  the surveyor had got it wrong. He said that just before his 
application NatWest had lent on another flat in his building with no problems, so he couldnt 
understand why his had been refused. He said he had been caused great inconvenience  
and greatly upset by being told his flat was worthless.
Mr L said he had repaid a help to buy loan around the same time, which also required a 
valuation. The surveyor who carried out that application had not said there was any cladding. 
The building owner said there was no cladding. And the building was less than six storeys 
and less than 18 metres high. So there was no need for an EWS1.
NatWest put Mr Ls comments to the surveyor. The surveyor replied to say that he had noted 
some cladding on the building, between windows and at roof level, and still thought an 
EWS1 was necessary.
NatWest said it didnt value properties itself. It commissioned qualified third-party surveyors 
to do that. And it had to rely on the advice it was given.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr L asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear how concerned Mr L was at the outcome of the valuation. Though I note 
hes since been able to get another mortgage with another lender.
Ive taken into account his concerns about what the valuation commissioned by NatWest 
said  especially as it reached a different conclusion from the valuation he got when 
repaying his help to buy loan, and the valuation from his mortgage lender.
But its not my role to decide whether or not NatWests surveyor got the valuation right or 
not. I have no jurisdiction over the surveyor or his firm. 
My role is to consider whether NatWest acted fairly or not in how it considered Mr Ls 
mortgage application.
When considering a mortgage application, a lender needs to know if the property is worth 
enough, and otherwise good security and acceptable risk, to secure the mortgage borrowing.
To discover that, the lender engages an independent surveyor. I can see thats what 
NatWest did in this case. The surveyor it engaged was properly qualified and regulated.
I appreciate Mr L doesnt agree with the surveyors conclusions. And thinks them to be 
wrong  or even fraudulent. But thats not something I can comment on.
NatWest put Mr Ls concerns to the surveyor and his firm. The surveyor took them into 
account, but didnt change his mind. His professional opinion was that an EWS1 was 
required before he could properly value the property.
At the time of the valuation, guidance on valuations in cases like this was less detailed than 
its since become. There was more scope for individual judgement by individual valuers.
And so  even though other surveyors might have taken a different view  it wasnt 
unreasonable for NatWest to rely on the professional opinion of the qualified surveyor it had 
retained to advise it about this mortgage application. That opinion was that the surveyor 
couldnt say that the property was suitable security for the mortgage. 
NatWest relied on that opinion when deciding not to go ahead with the mortgage application. 
Its worth saying too that no mortgage lender ever has to lend; theres always a broad 
discretion to accept or decline any application.
I dont therefore think that NatWest acted unfairly. And, while Ive taken into account Mr Ls 
strength of feeling about it, that means I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman