DRN-3437774
The complaint
Mr M, a director of R, complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited havent paid enough
following a claim on their Retail insurance policy.
What happened
Rs shop was broken into and multiple bottles of perfume were taken. R then claimed on
their Retail insurance policy for 81 stolen or damaged bottles of perfume and damage to the
property.
Arch reviewed the claim and accepted it, they also asked for evidence of the stolen items
claimed for, such as stock take results and purchase/sales receipts. R had recently
purchased their business a few weeks before and so wasnt able to provide a stock list. They
did, however, provide CCTV footage of the theft. Arch reviewed this and said it could see
between 42-46 bottles of perfume being stolen. Arch said 6-10 bottles had been dropped
outside of the store and recovered but then disposed of by R, so they wouldnt pay for those.
In total Arch agreed to pay £2,000 minus the policy excess.
R didnt think this was fair and complained, they said theyd lost 81 bottles of perfume in the
theft. They said it wasnt possible to resell the bottles that had been dropped and recovered
and other bottles had been fingerprinted by the police, so also couldnt be resold.
Arch reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the recovered bottles could have
had some resale value and R should have checked with them before disposing of them.
Arch also said the bottles which had been fingerprinted could have been cleaned and resold,
so again didnt think it was fair to pay for those either. R didnt agree and said they
couldnt have resold the bottles as they werent in the right condition for resale. They also
said Arch had taken too long to deal with their claim and this had meant they had been
unable to claim for the damage to the front door from their landlords insurance.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 July 2022 where I said:
As Arch have accepted the claim for the stolen perfume, I see no reason to consider that
further here. However, I have considered the amount Arch paid and whether they reached
that amount in a fair and reasonable way.
When R made a claim for the stolen and damaged perfume, they provided Arch with a list of
the items claimed for. This came to a total of £3,773.91 for 81 bottles of perfume. Arch asked
for evidence of the stock R owned at the time, including purchase receipts, sales receipts,
and stock take results to evidence which stock had been taken. Due to recently purchasing
the business and buying new stock R wasnt able to provide this but could provide CCTV
footage of the theft.
Arch reviewed the CCTV footage and said they could only see 42-46 bottles being stolen at
most. As R had said six bottles had been dropped and recovered Arch deducted these and
agreed to pay for 40 bottles of perfume. To arrive at this figure Arch divided the total amount
claimed for by 81 and then multiplied the average cost by 40. This came to a total of
£1,863.66, Arch then rounded this up and offered R £2,000.
Upon reviewing the CCTV footage Im unable to agree that Arch have acted unfairly by
saying they can only see a maximum of 46 bottles stolen. Also, without knowing exactly
which bottles were stolen Im satisfied Arch has taken a reasonable approach to calculating
the cost. Im therefore not going to tell Arch to pay any more for the stolen items.
Ive also considered the cost R incurred for the damaged door. Because the thief damaged
the door R paid to have it boarded up and then paid for a new door. Arch reviewed the terms
of Rs lease for the premises and said they couldnt find anywhere which said R is
responsible for the damage caused to the building. Arch also pointed out that the landlord is
responsible for obtaining buildings insurance and therefore would likely be responsible for
the damaged door.
I understand R said theyve not been able to claim from their landlords insurance policy. Our
investigator asked for evidence of this for me to consider, R have only provided their
testimony of not being able to recover these costs from their landlord. And without anything
else to show theyre unable to get these costs back from their landlord or their landlords
insurance, Im not satisfied its fair and reasonable to tell Arch to cover the costs for the
damaged door or boarding up. I understand this will be disappointing to R, but Im not
persuaded Arch have acted unreasonably in paying what they have. Im therefore not going
to tell Arch to pay anything else.
Arch didnt respond to my provisional decision. R responded and didnt accept it and 
reiterated the same points previously raised, in particular they said theyd told the truth and 
the police had prosecuted the thief. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure R that I have considered the points made and I dont dispute theyve been 
honest. However, without further evidence to show what was stolen, Im not persuaded Arch 
have been unreasonable in paying the amount they have for the reasons explained above 
and in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman