DRN-4031663
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the cancellations charges applied by Atlanta 1 Insurance Services 
Limited (Atlanta) following cancellation of his car insurance policy.
 
What happened
On 31st December 2022 Mr M applied for car insurance through Atlanta. During the online 
sales process Mr M was provided with access to information to allow him to make an 
informed choice about the suitability of the insurance for him. Mr M selected insurance which 
included the supply and fit of a telematics device. 
The policy information available online included the terms and conditions for Atlantas 
service, the telematics supplementary terms and conditions, and the insurance product 
information document. These documents explained the following:
Terms and conditions for Atlantas service (4 page document)
In the event that the policy is cancelled within fourteen days from either the start of 
date of your policy or, where cover has already started, when you receive your policy 
documentation, the premium you will pay will be calculated by the number of days 
insurance cover provided. You will be charged our administration charge of £25.
Telematics supplementary terms and conditions (9 page document)
Page 5- Telematics policy charges 
Non-refundable New Business set up fee £125
Page 7- Cancellation rights
If you wish to cancel and the insurance cover has already commenced, you will be 
entitled to a refund of the premium paid less a proportionate deduction for the time 
youve been on cover, the Non-refundable set up fee and any fees or commission 
due. Please refer to the section above Telematics Policy Charges & [Atlanta] Terms 
& Conditions for further details regarding the cancellation charges
Insurance product information document (3 page document)
Provided no non-recoverable claim has been made or is likely to be made, if you 
cancel your policy within 14 days of policy inception, you will be charged for the 
period you have been on cover. Your insurance intermediary may charge for their 
administration costs.
Mr M proceeded with the purchase of insurance through Atlanta. Mr M paid £586.16 for his 
insurance policy. He paid an initial deposit of £54.03. 
On 6th January 2023 Mr M contacted Atlanta asking to cancel his policy. He was told 
cancellation of the policy will be subject to the cancellation costs explained at the time of 
sale. This includes Atlantas administration fee of £25, and £125 for the set up fee for the 
telematics device. Mr M was told hed also be charged for the period of cover the insurance 
remained in place for. The cost of this was £11.22. Mr M was told an outstanding balance of 
£108.18 remained payable on his account. 
Mr M complained to Atlanta about the costs charged for cancelling his policy. Mr M said hed 
only had the policy for five days and the cancellation costs charged were not reasonable. 
Atlanta responded to Mr Ms complaint saying that the cancellation charges had been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions agreed to by Mr M at the time of taking out his 
policy. Because of this they didnt offer anything in settlement of Mr Ms complaint. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Mr M told this service that it wasnt convenient for him to use his 
entertainment system because of the telematics device being fitted in the cigarette portal. Mr 
M was also unhappy with the guidance to not use his car between certain hours listed in the 
Telematics supplementary terms and conditions. 
The investigator found that Atlanta had acted reasonably in applying the cancellation 
charges, and that the outstanding balance of £108.18 had been correctly calculated. Mr M 
disagreed with these findings saying that he hasnt opened the telematics device, and its 
unfair how much he has been charged for having it for only a few days. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Atlanta need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr M but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
When we investigate a complaint about cancellation costs, our role is to consider whether 
this information was reasonably explained at the time of sale. And whether the cancellation 
costs have been applied in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine what Mr M was told when he took out his policy, and 
whether the cancellation costs have been applied in line with this.   
Mr M says the cancellation costs were explained in a lengthy document and this information 
wasnt clearly highlighted. Ive looked at the customer journey provided by Atlanta, including 
the likely screenshots Mr M wouldve seen, and the documents he wouldve had access to. 
In doing so I dont think the information about the cancellation costs was difficult to find in the 
way that Mr M has described. Every document highlighted what would happen in the event 
of cancelling the policy, and separate costs were listed in the relevant document.
I have seen that the terms and conditions for Atlantas service explained that an 
administration fee of £25 would apply. The insurance product information document 
explained that Mr M would be charged for the period he had the benefit of insurance. I 
understand Mr M is primarily concerned with the £125 charged for the telematics device. 
I have seen that the Telematics supplementary terms and conditions explained what costs 
would be charged for this device in the event that the policy was cancelled within 14 days. I 
have seen that pages 5 and 7 provide information about the set up fee of £125.I appreciate Mr M feels that this information wasnt made clear to him. But I dont think the 
cost table on page 5 is particularly dense or onerous to read. I also think the cancellation 
information on page 7 makes it clear that If you wish to cancel and the insurance cover has 
already commenced, you will be entitled to a refund of the premium paid less a proportionate 
deduction for the time youve been on cover, the Non-refundable set up fee and any fees or 
commission due. 
Mr M says that he doesnt agree with the fee charged for the telematics device as he hasnt 
used this device, and cant see any administration costs associated with the set up of this 
device. I appreciate what Mr M has explained about receiving the telematics device, and not 
using it. Mr M says it remains in the box it arrived in. 
Atlanta have explained how Mr Ms cancellation costs have been calculated. Having looked 
at this carefully, Im satisfied Atlanta have treated Mr M as it would other consumers with 
similar circumstances. Mr M feels strongly that the cost of the telematics device is not 
proportionate to the use he has had for it. Im satisfied that Atlanta dealt with Mr M fairly and 
that they havent treated him differently to any other customer in the same circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr Ms disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr M 
feeling stressed, and financially out of pocket. But I am satisfied the cancellation charges 
have been applied in line with the policy terms explained to Mr M before he agreed to take 
out his policy. So I wont be asking Atlanta to do anything in settlement of this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman