DRN-3504750
The complaint
Mr M says that CO-OP Bank plc (CO-OP) irresponsibly approved an overdraft for him 
when he was already in arrears with the credit card he had with it.
What happened
Mr M applied and was approved for an overdraft of £500 with the CO-OP in September 
2018. 
CO-OP wrote to Mr M in August 2019 to advise his overdraft was due to expire on 2 
September. Mr M got in contact with the CO-OP and explained his circumstances had 
changed - hed become a carer - and was financially struggling and wished to set up a 
repayment plan. 
CO-OP went through his income and expenditure and found there was no disposable 
income so put a hold on the account for 30 days - no interest and charges would be applied. 
Following this a £500 overdraft was agreed reducing by £100 a month starting November 
2019. This was adapted down to £50 and then £40 a month to give Mr M further breathing 
space following unexpected bills and him losing his job. Mr M paid the overdraft off by June 
2020.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and didnt think CO-OP had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And 
Ive referred to this when deciding Mr Ms complaint. Having considered everything provided, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
CO-OP needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
CO-OP needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether CO-OP did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ms overdraft. Mr M was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks CO-OP carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr M would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
CO-OP has told us Mr M had previously had a £300 overdraft facility that had expired in 
2012 and that he had applied for an overdraft in September 2016 but had been declined. But 
he was accepted for an overdraft the subject of this complaint because he had been 
continually operating his account in credit and his credit card with it had reduced 
substantially due to continued repayments from him and that there had been no indication of 
external issues on his credit file. And based on this information CO-OP was satisfied the 
£500 overdraft facility fell within its internal recommended lending limit to provide him with 
the overdraft facility he requested. 
Ive looked at Mr Ms statements in the months leading up to the overdraft application and 
can see that Mr M was having regular credits to his account in excess of the overdraft limit 
and at any one time had a healthy credit balance on his account. Ive also seen Mr Ms credit 
report that shows at the time the overdraft was granted there wasnt any adverse information 
showing. 
I accept that Mr Ms financial position may well have been worse than the checks carried out 
or showed or in any information he disclosed to CO-OP at the time. And it is possible that 
further checks might have told CO-OP this. But CO-OP was reasonably entitled to rely on 
the credit check it carried out. Given the relatively low amount of credit being advanced and 
that there is no evidence of any adverse information shown on the credit check and Mr M 
had managed his account well in the previous months, I think CO-OPs checks went far 
enough. 
Id also expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly. Mr M got in touch with CO-OP following its letter informing him his overdraft 
was due to expire. Ive listened to the recording of the phone conversation between Mr M 
and the CO-OP advisor. Mr M explains that when he applied for the overdraft his 
circumstances were fantastic but in the past few months hed become a carer and was 
struggling. He also says hed never had problems before and although he has a credit card 
with CO-OP he has no other debts.
The advisor went through his income and expenditure and as there was no current 
disposable income put a hold on Mr Ms account for 30 days where no interest or charges 
would be applied  to allow Mr M some breathing space and for backdated benefits to come 
in. Following this as outlined above Mr M agreed an overdraft of £500 on a reducing basis 
and his overdraft was paid off by June 2020. 
This is in-line with what Id expect a business to do once it became aware a customer was 
suffering from financial difficulties  so I cant say CO-OP did anything wrong here. 
This means that I dont agree CO-OP provided Mr Ms with an overdraft facility unfairly or 
irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman