DRN-3184474
The complaint
In 2021, Ms M complained (the mis-selling complaint) to Bank of Scotland plc  trading as 
Halifax that it had mis-sold her a packaged bank account called an Ultimate Reward Current 
Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland charged Ms M a monthly fee for the URCA and provided 
several potential benefits in return.
Bank of Scotland accepted that it had mis-sold the URCA to Ms M and paid her some 
compensation. However, Ms M does not think the compensation was correct. She thinks 
Bank of Scotland still owes her a large amount of money and so has brought a new 
complaint (the compensation complaint) to us. 
What happened
As there is no dispute about the mis-selling complaint itself, we have not investigated it. We 
have accepted the view of both parties that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Ms M. In 
this decision I have therefore only considered the compensation complaint.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the compensation complaint and thought 
that the amount Bank of Scotland paid to Ms M was fair. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so it has come to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Ms M and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the 
compensation complaint and Ive decided not to uphold it. I will explain why below. 
When we uphold a complaint that a bank mis-sold a packaged bank account, we tell the 
bank to return the consumer to the financial position s/he would have been in if the bank had 
not sold the packaged account to him or her. This usually means telling the bank to repay 
the monthly fees, plus any other fees which the consumer incurred as a direct and sole 
result of buying the packaged account, and adding simple interest to each fee from the date 
the consumer paid the fee until the bank makes the refund. For cases where the sale took 
place after April 1993, we set the interest rate at 8% per year. Her Majestys Revenue and 
Customs usually requires the bank to take income tax off this interest.
Historically, some packaged bank accounts provided banking benefits, such as lower cost 
overdrafts, than were available to customers with fee-free accounts; and if a consumer 
gained from these benefits, then we usually allow the bank to deduct the gains from the 
compensation. 
I have seen a copy of Bank of Scotlands calculation for Ms M and it seems to be in line with 
our approach. It has refunded all the monthly fees it charged Ms M, along with some other 
fees which it applied to her URCA, and added interest at the appropriate rate. It has then 
made two deductions. Firstly, it has deducted income tax from the interest and secondly it 
has made a deduction for overdraft benefits received. Ms  M has  questioned whether  
these deductions were fair in her case. I think they were, and I will explain why for each in 
turn. 
The deduction for income tax 
As mentioned above, Her Majestys Revenue and Customs generally requires banks to 
make deductions like this as it regards the interest to be a form of income for tax purposes. 
So, Im confident that in Ms Ms case, Bank of Scotland was following Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs usual guidance. However, Ms M has told us that her income is 
below the level at which she has to pay income tax. If this is the case, then she may be able 
to reclaim the relevant amount from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs. If she needs 
proof from Bank of Scotland that it has deducted this tax, then if it hasnt already done so, I 
expect it to provide her with a suitable certificate if she asks for one. 
I will, of course, leave it with Ms M to contact Her Majestys Revenue and Customs and Bank 
of Scotland if she wishes to claim for a tax refund. 
The deduction for overdraft benefits 
In late 2009, when Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Ms M, it usually charged customers 
with fee-free accounts a daily usage fee if they overdrew their accounts. It also usually 
charged interest on the overdraft, no matter how small the amount overdrawn. However, it 
did not usually apply the usage charge to its URCA customers providing that they kept their 
overdraft below a certain limit, and nor did it usually charge these customers interest if they 
kept their overdraft within the same limit. It called such possible savings for its customers an 
overdraft benefit  of the URCA. We consider them to be an example of the banking benefits 
which I mentioned earlier. 
It seems that Ms M overdrew her account quite frequently and so gained a significant 
banking benefit by having the URCA, which she would not have received if she had held one 
of Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts. I therefore think it was reasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to make this deduction. 
In recent correspondence with us, Ms M mentioned that she had two other accounts which 
she did not overdraw and that she only overdrew the URCA because of the monthly fees; 
and so, did not receive any banking benefit for Bank of Scotland to deduct. I fully accept that 
Ms M may well have had other accounts which she did not overdraw, but I am not convinced 
this shows it was only the fees for the URCA which led her to overdraw it. I still think Bank of 
Scotlands deduction for the banking benefit was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax should pay her a further amount for mis-selling her the 
URCA. I am not going to tell it to give her any additional compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.  
Steve TownsleyOmbudsman