DRN-2661938
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc defaulted his account and then sold it to a third 
party.
What happened
Mr Js joint account with HSBC was suspended in 2016 after he advised the bank of 
changes in his personal circumstances. Around this time, the account was in overdraft and 
the balance owed eventually increased to around £1,000. By September 2018, HSBC had 
defaulted the account and sold it to a third party.
Mr J says HSBC acted unfairly by doing so. He says hed been in regular contact with the 
bank and he was given assurances that HSBC wouldnt take the steps it ended up taking. 
Mr J also says he was assured his credit report wouldnt be affected and that his offer to pay 
50% of the debt was declined by the bank. Mr J is unhappy that HSBCs actions have 
resulted in him facing difficulties obtaining a mortgage. 
HSBC says it wrote to Mr J requesting that the balance is paid or that contact is made to 
arrange a repayment plan. The bank says the account was passed to its own internal debt 
collection team in May 2017 and then sold to a third party in September 2018. HSBC says 
the account defaulted because neither account holder took steps to clear the balance and 
that there was no agreement between the bank and Mr J to prevent debt collection action. 
Our investigator decided that HSBC had acted fairly. The investigator explained that both 
account holders are liable for the full debt, as per the terms of the account. So the bank 
didnt have to accept anything other than a payment for the full balance. The investigator 
also set out that hed seen copies of the banks letters, which were attempts to recover the 
balance that was owed and that there was no evidence that the bank had agreed to cease 
any debt recovery action. The investigator was satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when it 
defaulted the account and later sold it on.
Mr J didnt agree. He says he kept HSBC informed about his circumstances and feels the 
bank couldve done more to recover the debt from the joint account holder. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a final decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im also of the view that HSBC acted fairly. I know Mr J will be disappointed, so Ill explain 
why.
Ive seen copies of statements for the account in question and I can see that it was in 
overdraft around the time the account was suspended  and it stayed in overdraft up until 
the account was sold to the third party. HSBCs terms and conditions say that an overdraft is 
repayable on demand. So I think it acted fairly when it requested payment of the overdraft 
balance.
Ive also seen copies of letters HSBC sent Mr J, requesting repayment of the overdraft or 
that contact is made with the bank to arrange a repayment plan. Each letter sets out the 
balance owed and the action that could be taken if the balance isnt paid  including 
updating credit reference agencies, passing the debt to a debt collection agency or legal 
proceedings. The letters appear to have been sent periodically between 2016 and 2017 and 
HSBC says there were phone conversations in 2018 with both account holders  so I think 
HSBC did enough to inform Mr J that he needed to pay the balance that was owed.
Mr J says he was assured by the bank that it wouldnt take any debt recovery action. But as 
our investigator explained, the information Ive seen doesnt corroborate that the bank 
provided this assurance. HSBC has completed additional searches on its system for calls 
Mr J may have made  but this hasnt revealed any results. 
Mr J says he offered to pay half the balance that was owed so that the bank could pursue 
the joint account holder for the other half. But the terms of the account say that all of you 
together and individually are responsible for any money owed to us on the joint account and 
that the bank may demand repayment from all and any of the account holders. What this 
essentially means is that both account holders are equally liable for the full balance that was 
owed. So I dont think HSBC did something wrong when it declined Mr Js offer. 
Mr J remains unhappy that the account was sold to a third party. However, HSBCs terms 
allow it to transfer all of its rights to a third party. It appears the debt went unpaid for around 
two years before the bank sold the account to the third party  so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to carry out this action. As our investigator mentioned, HSBC is 
required to provide accurate information to credit reference agencies. And given the duration 
the debt was left unpaid, I dont think it was unfair of HSBC to record the default either. 
Mr J has been paid £75 compensation so far for other failings on HSBCs part. I think our 
investigator has already provided clear reasons why this has no bearing on the issues 
related to this complaint  so I wont be commenting on the compensation further. 
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Js complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 June 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman