DRN-4104404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint concerns the service provided to them by a partner of St. James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP).  
What happened
The overall background to this complaint will be familiar to both parties, so I wont go over it 
in detail here. 
As a previous complaint by Mr and Mrs F concerning SJPs service provision has already 
been dealt with by this service, Ill first clarify the specific issues Im considering in this 
decision. These are, namely, that SJPs partner failed to:
Deliver on the basic SJP product promise  specifically that their adviser didnt 
review their investment portfolio or rebalance it.
Provide advice on tax efficient investments when requested.
Inform Mr and Mrs F about initial advice fees.
Address the impact of not being able to move investments away from SJP without 
incurring early repayment charges, and the subsequent delay in SJP agreeing that 
those charges would be waived.
Our investigator looked at these points in detail and found as follows  
The SJP product promise
SJP explained that as part of its ongoing advice service, it would expect its partner to offer a 
review at least once a year. The investigator said the documentary evidence showed that 
several meetings had taken place between 2016 and 2018. These covered areas such as 
pension planning, income provision and inheritance tax planning. 
She noted in particular an email exchange following a meeting in February 2018 in which 
Mr F had specifically mentioned his expectation that his existing funds would be kept under 
review and changes recommended. The adviser had, in response, confirmed that 
recommendations for changes would be made if and when warranted.
In summary, the investigator was satisfied that reviews did take place, in line with the 
agreement between the parties. But she didnt feel that rebalancing of the portfolio was 
something SJP was obligated to do at every review. She considered SJPs view that the 
funds were being actively monitored by their managers and that, as such, active 
recommendations of changes would be made only in certain circumstances, to be 
reasonable. 
Provide advice on tax efficient investments when requested.
This issue related to Mr Fs enquiries into the possibility of investing into one or more 
Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS) during the 2016/17 tax year. The investigator noted 
that following a meeting in October 2016 correspondence regarding the matter was ongoing. 
At a further meeting in March 2017, during which new Loan Plan arrangements for 
inheritance tax planning were discussed, it also appeared that information about some EISs 
was provided to Mr and Mrs F, along with it being highlighted to them that tax relief could be 
backdated. Correspondence on the matter then continued post April 2017, into the financial 
new year, but ultimately no EIS investments were made as the availability of products 
changed. 
In summary, the investigator felt the evidence showed that information about EISs was 
provided to Mr F before the end of the tax year and she felt he therefore wouldve been able 
to confirm his preferences prior to that.  
Initial advice fees 
This issue related to the aforementioned Loan Plan arrangements prepared for Mr and Mrs F 
in January 2017. The investigator noted that personalised illustrations had been provided, 
which had highlighted the charges involved. She explained that it was common for such 
charges to be applied to a new recommendation even when the money to be invested was 
already held with SJP. She therefore didnt consider this part of the complaint should be 
upheld.
The impact of not being able to move investments away from SJP without incurring early 
repayment charges
As a result of Mr and Mrs Fs ongoing concerns with the service provided to them by SJPs 
partner, they asked in December 2019 to move their investments to a new provider and that 
any applicable early repayment charges be waived. SJP initially declined to do this, but upon 
review did agree to waive the charges, in March 2020. Mr and Mrs F feel that the delay in 
agreeing to their request incurred them losses relating to the performance of the investments 
and the suspension of a property fund. 
The investigator didnt consider that SJP had been under any obligation to waive the 
charges. She felt theyd been made clear in the original documentation provided to Mr and 
Mrs F and correctly applied.   
She noted that Mr and Mrs F considered SJP to have breached its contract, so they 
shouldve been able to move their investments to a new provider without any penalty. The 
investigator acknowledged that a general legal remedy for breach of contract was to place 
the claimant in the same position as if the contract had been performed as it ought to have 
been. But she felt that the offer of compensation (made by SJP in respect of the previous 
complaint dealt with by this service) wasnt the same as repudiating the contract entirely. 
She wasnt satisfied that SJP partners conduct had deprived Mr and Mrs F of the benefit of 
the contract theyd intended to receive. She considered that the alleged breach hadnt been 
serious enough to conclude that it was repudiatory, so she found SJPs offer reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in brief:
Theirs had been a bespoke portfolio that should itself have been regularly reviewed. 
The reviews that did take place related to other products. Any switches that had been 
made had been instigated by Mr and Mrs F themselves. 
The investigator had mischaracterised the issue regarding advice on tax efficient 
products, which was specifically that a recommendation wasnt provided to them prior 
to the 2017 financial year end. They felt it had been contingent on SJP to either 
advise Mr F to invest in his pension before the year end, which wouldve preserved his tax position, or to allow him to invest without restriction as SJPs partner had 
specifically advised there was no time limit. He had acted as he did because of the 
partners advice and in doing so lost the opportunity to invest. 
The issue of initial charges had also been mischaracterised. Their complaint was that 
fees were charged incorrectly on an existing investment and the investigator had 
made no comment on the definition of an initial investment. They had in fact been 
advised there would be no charges.
In respect of the early repayment charges, their view was that SJP had acted 
capriciously and incorrectly refused to allow them to move their investments free of 
the charges when it was in breach of contract. As such, by the time the breach and 
compensation (in respect of the previous complaint) had been agreed, the value of 
the investments had fallen by over £50,000. They were therefore seeking recovery of 
the losses incurred due to the delay in SJP agreeing that it had been in breach 
(which had not been disputed by the investigator)  they werent claiming a 
repudiatory breach and recovery of all costs incurred under the contract. SJP had 
eventually agreed to waive the charges and pay compensation for its failure to 
perform the contract, which clearly showed it agreed it had been in breach. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why, referencing the 
same headings as used by the investigator (although I note Mr and Mrs Fs comment 
regarding mischaracterisation of some elements of the complaint). 
The SJP product promise
It certainly seems that Mr and Mrs F expected more pro-active reviews of the bespoke 
portfolio that had been put together for them. As noted, the email of February 2018 made 
this clear. And, indeed, it highlighted their disappointment with a previous adviser who hadnt 
implemented any changes. 
The adviser acknowledged their concern at the time, with the explanation that changes 
would be made when warranted. But it does seem that no changes were made, other than 
those instigated by Mr and Mrs F. And theres little to show that active reviews of the 
portfolio took place. The reviews that were carried out and the associated meetings do 
appear to have focussed on other areas of financial planning. 
But, that said, I dont think the absence of any SJP-instigated changes necessarily means 
that no consideration whatsoever was given to the portfolio during the period in question. 
And I have some sympathy with SJPs view that, having been put together on a bespoke 
basis for Mr and Mrs F, with a presumed medium to long-term investment timeframe, it was 
unlikely thered be changes made in the first few years, unless prompted by some fairly 
significant external factors. SJP has described its approach as looking at time in the market 
as opposed to timing the market and I think in the circumstances this is a reasonable 
viewpoint. The recommended funds that made up the portfolio were overseen by fund 
managers, meaning theyd have been under review on an ongoing basis. And in any event, as Mr and Mrs F have acknowledged themselves, its difficult to determine 
what mightve been different about their position if SJPs partner had been more pro-active. 
It may well have been that, in line with the time in the market approach, no changes 
wouldve been made anyway. Or changes that led ultimately to a worse financial position. As 
such, in all the circumstances, I dont feel I can fairly uphold this point and direct any 
compensation.   
Provide advice on tax efficient investments when requested
I note Mr and Mrs Fs point about the characterisation of this concern  that their complaint is 
specifically that no recommendation in respect of EIS and/or pension investment was given 
prior to the financial year end and an opportunity was therefore lost. 
Looking at the documentary evidence its clear that there was an ongoing dialogue on these 
topics and information was provided by SJP, which confirmed limitations with the EIS 
approach in respect of what SJP had available. And the dialogue continued past April 2017, 
with Mr F showing some misgivings with the situation in an email of January 2018, in which 
he noted the lack of suitable schemes, which he saw as unfortunate given that the original 
discussions had highlighted the possibility of backdating to the 2016/17 tax year. 
But I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support a finding that SJP failed to carry out an 
explicit request. Mr and Mrs F have suggested a very specific remedy for this issue  
amounts that they feel should have put into Mr Fs pension and EISs before April 2017. And 
while there certainly couldve been a recommendation made along the lines suggested, I 
think its somewhat speculative to now try to determine what that shouldve looked like. And 
Im conscious that the dialogue was ongoing, and that Mr and Mrs F werent prevented from 
making an approach to the adviser to explain that a recommendation before the end of the 
tax year was an absolute requirement.  
Initial advice fees 
Ive little to add to what the investigator has said on this point. Mr and Mrs F were made 
aware of the charges by way of the illustrations for the loan plans issued to them. I note 
there was an indication given that SJP would meet the costs associated with the trusts set 
up element of the plans. But this was an administrative cost separate to the provision of 
advice on how the monies then committed to the plans should be invested. Despite the 
monies coming from existing SJP investments, these were new products and, as the 
investigator noted, its quite normal for charges to be applied in such circumstances. 
The impact of not being able to move investments away from SJP without incurring early 
repayment charges
Clearly by December 2019 Mr and Mrs F had reached a point where they were no longer 
satisfied with the service SJPs partner was providing. And it seems that this situation had 
been developing for some time. In all the circumstances I can understand why they felt they 
shouldnt have to be bound by the early repayment charges in moving away from SJP. Its 
clear there were service failings by the partner, much of which has been dealt with as part of 
our consideration of Mr and Mrs Fs previous complaint.  
But the early repayment charges were applicable to the account. There was no obligation 
upon SJP to waive them. The eventual offer to do so in March 2020, prompted by a review 
of the matter, was made as a pro-active attempt to resolve the matter. I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs F feel this shouldve been actioned sooner, and if it had been their financial 
position would be different. But ultimately it was SJPs decision as to whether the request 
would be met and if so, when. I dont think there has been any acknowledgement of a breach of contract, and in any event, 
I make no finding in that respect. My determination of the complaint is by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And Im satisfied 
that the approach taken by SJP in respect of the early repayment charges was fair and 
reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman