DRN-2236972
Complaint
Mr and Mrs J say HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage payment
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs J bought the MPPI policy for a mortgage in 1996 to help them with their
mortgage repayments if Mr J was unable to work because of accident, sickness or
unemployment.
Background 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so the
complaint has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 24 August 2020, I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs J have re-iterated that they feel the policy was 
mis-sold because it wasnt in joint names. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Currently, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither HSBC nor Mr and Mrs J have given me any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont
think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs J say they
believed taking the MPPI would help get their mortgage approved. But HSBC says the
optional nature of the PPI wouldve been made clear.
Where I have limited information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely
based on everything I have seen. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Js strength of feeling
regarding this, and have thought carefully about their testimony, given the lack of any
evidence available other than both HSBC and Mr and Mrs Js testimony, Im afraid I dont
have enough to say that its more likely the policy wasnt presented as optional to Mr and Mrs
J or that they didnt agree to take it.
Mr and Mrs J say they were pressured to take the MPPI. Pressure can be subjective so, Id
need persuasive evidence to uphold their complaint on this basis. Encouraging a customer
to consider buying PPI and highlighting the benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue
pressure. In order to uphold a complaint due to pressure, Id need to hear detail as to what
was said or done which made consumers feel they were unable to decline cover despite
knowing the MPPI was optional. Overall, I havent heard enough to make me think HSBC put
undue pressure on Mr and Mrs J to take out the PPI
HSBC doesnt know if it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs J but Mr and Mrs J say it did.
As Ive got limited documents from the time of sale, I dont know whether any advice was
given. But given Mr and Mrs Js testimony, and for completeness, Ive decided this case as if
HSBC did recommend the MPPI, as this holds it to a higher standard. So, it had to check
that the MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the
time, I think that it was. For example, Mr J (as the only person covered under the policy) was
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI
cover. They also seem to have had a need for the cover.
Based on what weve been told, Mr J was the main earner in the household, and he would
only have received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work due to an accident or illness. So if
he was off sick, its likely Mr and Mrs J would have struggled to keep up with the repayments
on their mortgage, as well as all the other usual household expenses, with just Mrs Js
income and the limited amount of statutory sick pay Mr J would receive. The PPI would
cover the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months if Mr J was too sick to work, meaning
they could use any other income they had to meet their other commitments.
Mr and Mrs J say that because they had a joint mortgage, they should have been sold a joint
PPI policy too. But as Ive said, it seems Mr J was the main earner and theyve also told us
Mrs J would have been entitled to significant sick pay entitlements from her employer at the
time. If Mrs J was unable to work because of illness or injury, their household income
wouldnt be impacted significantly, so theyd likely be able to carry on with the mortgage
repayments without too much difficulty. Because of this, I dont think a policy in Mr Js name
only was an unsuitable recommendation.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs J about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the MPPI
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Overall, I think they wouldve found the cover useful to protect their mortgage, which was a
long term and significant commitment secured on their home  so the effects of not keeping
up with the repayments couldve been very serious. Because I dont think the PPI was mis-
sold, HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J feel this policy wasnt suitable and understand their strength of 
feeling regarding this. But just because they had a joint mortgage, it doesnt follow that the 
only suitable recommendation would have been a joint PPI policy. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, the policy that Mr and Mrs J did purchase (bearing in mind Mr Js 
limited other means and Mrs Js significant employee benefits) wouldve been useful for 
them and I still dont think it was an unsuitable policy, given their circumstances at the time.I understand Mr and Mrs J believe that HSBC has made an error here  but I havent seen 
any evidence of that. This policy was sold a long time ago now, with limited documents 
available, so Ive had to decide the case on the limited information that is available - but Id 
like to re-assure Mr and Mrs J that Ive thought carefully about everything they have said. 
Its possible that HSBC incorrectly set the policy up, or its possible that it was intentionally 
set up this way, in line with Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and wishes at the time. In order to 
uphold their complaint, Id have to be satisfied that it was more likely HSBC made an error 
and Im afraid I havent seen enough to safely conclude that this was an error. 
In the absence of any other points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman