DRN-3370425
The complaint
Mr A complains that it was unfair of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF) to provide finance so he could purchase a timeshare 
product without checking whether he could afford the borrowing and then refuse to consider 
claims he made about the product being mis-sold.
The timeshare agreement is in the joint names of Mr A and his partner but the finance 
agreement is in Mr As sole name. This means hes the eligible complainant who can bring 
the complaint to this service and Ive referred to Mr A alone in this decision.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (CMC) but I will refer (generally) to 
everything thats been said on his behalf as if Mr A had said it himself, to keep things simple. 
What happened
Mr A purchased the product on 1 October 2007 using a credit card supplied by BPF. The 
cost was £7,300 and the transaction attracted a promotional interest rate that meant Mr A 
would pay no interest for six months  in a buy now pay later (BNPL) arrangement. Amongst 
other things, Mr A states that the timeshare product was misrepresented, terms and 
conditions were unfair and unduly onerous, he was subject to high pressure and aggressive 
sales tactics and BPF didnt declare commission paid to the supplier or undertake proper 
checks before lending. Mr A says he experienced financial loss and hardship as a result and 
hed like BPF to provide a refund and compensation.
BPF investigated Mr As claims but considered they were raised too late under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA) so Mr A contacted our service. One of our investigators considered the 
evidence and he didnt think Mr A had supplied enough to suggest that the lending was 
unaffordable for him. He acknowledged a lender is jointly and severally liable with the 
supplier of goods or services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But, he thinks the time to bring 
any like claim against BPF would expire at the same time as any claim against the supplier 
under the LA - and its not unreasonable for BPF to take this into account.
The investigator said Mr A had six years under the LA to bring a claim for misrepresentation 
- and the same time frame applies for claims under statute and contract. He was satisfied 
that a misrepresentation claim can be made once the person bringing the claim has suffered 
damage. And he considered any damage in this case would have occurred when Mr A 
experienced financial loss as a result of purchasing the timeshare  in that, Mr A says he 
bought the timeshare due misrepresentations made by the supplier and he wouldnt have 
done so but for that.
The investigator found Mr As point of loss was when he entered into the timeshare 
transaction  it was then he accepted the cost and any potential benefit under the contract. 
He accepted Mr A may not have known that he could raise concerns about any 
misrepresentations until later. But he considered the relevant time limits start to run from the 
date of loss  which may be earlier than the date Mr A realised something might have gone 
wrong. He thought Mr A needed to raise his claim under section 75 no later October 2013 
but he didnt complain to BPF until much later  in November 2018  which was likely too 
late.
The investigator also considered section 140A of the CCA - which allows the courts to make
an order under section 140B if it is determined that the relationship between the creditor and
debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor. Only a court has the power to
decide this but section 140A is relevant law and we need to take it into consideration. The
investigator was satisfied that the LA applies to a section 140A and, as Mr As account
closed in May 2009, he would have needed to bring any such claim no later than May 2015.
Mr A didnt raise his claim with BPF until 2018. So, the investigator thought it was probably
time barred as well, under the LA.
The investigator said its a matter for the courts ultimately to decide whether or not any claim
that Mr A may have has expired under the LA. But, he was satisfied it looks as if Mr As
claims have more than likely exceeded the relevant time limits. He thought it was reasonable
to take this into account. He wasnt persuaded it was wrong of BPF to decline Mr As claims.
And he didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A didnt agree. His representatives said (in summary):-
The action is not time-barred, there is no statutory time limit for raising a complaint 
under the CCA or for asking the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into a refusal 
by a creditor to properly investigate a complaint - the time limit of six years applies to 
starting a court action; 
Mr A is not a sophisticated buyer and he only discovered the actual characteristics of 
the products he purchased many years later, for example, the near perpetual length 
of the contract; 
the fact that the timeshare was a long term (nearly perpetual) contract with unlimited 
liability for management charges was concealed at the point of purchase and this is 
an unduly onerous term; 
this complaint must also be viewed against a pattern of repeated sales of similar 
timeshare products which was represented by the supplier to remedy a perceived 
defect of earlier products; 
Mr A did not have access to professional advice or the ability to access that advice 
earlier/at the point of sale so limitation is postponed until he could be aware of the 
facts with reasonable diligence (sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA); 
Mr A became aware that he had cause for complaint in November 2017 when he 
sought advice for the first time and this is the date of knowledge for the six-year 
limitation period; 
Consumers purchasing without specialist advice were at an inevitable disadvantage 
with inequality of knowledge giving rise to an unfair creditor-debtor relationship; 
The existence and amount of commission paid by BPF to the supplier (or broker) are 
relevant to the cause of action against BPF under sections 140A  140D of CCA. 
These were concealed at the point of sale and the amount and calculation of 
commission continues to be the subject of non-disclosure so any relevant limitation 
period is postponed until Mr A could be aware of the facts with reasonable diligence 
under sections 32(1)(b) and 32(2) of the LA; 
Mr A could only have become aware of the non-disclosure when he sought 
professional advice in November 2017; 
The loan has all the hallmarks of an unaffordable loan at an APR of 17.7% - when 
mortgage loan interest rates were in the region of 3.5% - and no proper affordability checks were carried out so limitation is postponed (under sections 32(1)(b) and 
32(2)) and causes of action under sections 140A - 140D of CCA are not time barred;
Given Mr A was unable to ascertain the facts by the exercise of reasonable diligence, 
he couldnt reasonably be expected to know that he had cause for complaint until he 
sought appropriate advice in 2017.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter. He thinks the complaint should be 
upheld and he should receive a full refund plus interest.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons were somewhat different to those of the investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision on 2 March 2022 to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. What I decided provisionally 
- and why - is set out below, and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of 
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr As representatives have made detailed submissions which include reference to various
regulations, legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law
and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr A, if I dont address
every point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered
everything thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate here on what I think
is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr A brings claims against BPF under section 75 and section 140A of the CCA. Our 
investigator thinks any right he has to do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats
correct, I think its something BPF could reasonably take into account when considering
Mr As claims. I should make it clear at the outset however that Im not deciding if any right
that Mr A may have to bring a claim has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.
In this decision, Im considering whether I think BPF should reasonably have accepted
Mr As claims.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain
circumstances. I havent considered if the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
required under section 75 is present here because Im not minded to uphold this complaint
for other reasons, as set out below.
Mr A claims misrepresentations were made and I think sections 2, and 9 of the LA are
relevant. Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date on which the cause of action
accrued in this case will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentation alleged
under section 75 became actionable  that is the date the damage is suffered.I say this because Im satisfied that any relevant damage would have been incurred when
Mr A purchased the timeshare and took out the finance - in 2007. Amongst other things, it
was at this stage he paid for the benefits which he says were misrepresented and incurred
any liability for the financial losses identified by his representatives. 
In light of the above, I think Mr A would have needed to bring any claim under section 75
within six years of the date of the timeshare transaction itself. Im satisfied that more than six
years had passed since that date before Mr A contacted BPF in November 2018. I think the
period within which Mr A had to bring an action under section 75 had likely run out by this
point. And I cant reasonably conclude that its wrong of BPF to decline Mr As section 75
claim in these circumstances.
Section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I
think this is relevant law so Ive taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr A had to bring such a claim is six years from
the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. In in his answers to a questionnaire that Ive
seen (the questionnaire), Mr A says the finance was repaid on 1 October 2015. But, he has
also provided a statement of account that shows a payment for the full amount was made by
cheque on 28 March 2008 leaving a nil balance. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr A
borrowed any further on this account after that. And BPF has supplied evidence that shows
the account closed in 2009.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr A repaid the borrowing in 2008 (within the BNPL
period) and this account closed in 2009 - which means he needed to bring any claim under
section 140A no later than 2015. Im satisfied Mr that A didnt contact BPF until November 
2018 - more than three years after that. Im minded to conclude that any right he had to bring 
a claim under section 140A had likely expired by then. And Im not persuaded it was
unreasonable for BPF to decline this claim, in the circumstances.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr A may say he didnt know about these time limits. But, Im afraid thats not
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thought
to what his representatives say about the impact of section 32 of the LA  which relates to
the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found - or
could with reasonable diligence have been discovered. But, for the reasons Ive set out
below, Im not persuaded this assists Mr A in these particular circumstances.
Mr A says (in the questionnaire) he tried to use the timeshare product in June 2008, 2009,
2012 and 2013, but he was never able to book a holiday. I think this suggests he was aware
that there might be issues with the product by the middle of 2008 - in that he wasnt receiving
what he expected at that stage and benefits he says he was told at the outset would be
provided might have been misrepresented. On balance, I consider its more likely than not
Mr A had enough information to start the clock running within a year or so of purchasing
the product. I think he probably had enough information then to enable him to bring the
relevant claims. And I dont think its unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the
relevant time limits.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I have also considered the submissions that Mr As
representatives made about the payment of commission by BPF to the supplier for arrangingthe finance. They say BPF should have told Mr A about any such commission and its wrong
that this still hasnt been disclosed. BPF told us it doesnt have a record of what, if any,
commission was paid to the supplier. From the evidence Ive seen, I think if any commission
was paid (which is not certain) this probably didnt exceed 10%.
I cant see that BPF breached any duty in making such a payment and Im not persuaded
that BPF was under an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission paid. As far as
Im aware the levels of commission that were normally paid in this sort of situation (at the
relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF should have appreciated not telling Mr
A about commission risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under section 140A.
I should also make it clear that Im not persuaded the supplier was acting as agent for Mr A
or owed him a fiduciary duty in this situation. Im satisfied its role wasnt to make an impartial
or dis-interested recommendation. And I dont think it was required to disclose that it might
have received a commission to Mr A.
In light of my provisional findings above, Im not persuaded that section 32 assists Mr A. In
any event however (as Ive said already) if any commission was paid here I think it probably
wouldnt have been more than 10%. So, even if Mr A could rely on section 32, I consider its
unlikely a court would find that commission paid created an unfair debtor-creditor
relationship.
Section 14A LA
Section 14A  which provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be
made - hasnt been raised specifically by the parties but Ive thought about whether it takes
matters any further. Ive considered what happened when Mr A purchased the timeshare
and took out the finance. And, whilst I accept there was an obligation to give Mr A sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take out the finance, Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided - that 
could give rise to a claim to which this section could apply. 
Conclusion
As our investigator has explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that
Mr A may have against the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can
see from the information Ive got, any such claim has most likely exceeded the time limits set
out in the LA . And I think it is reasonable to take this into account in the circumstances.
unaffordable lending
 
Mr A says no proper credit checks were carried out before lending and it was irresponsible of
BPF to provide this finance which has all the hallmarks of unaffordable credit - such as an
APR of just over 17% - when mortgage interest rates were much lower. I dont think its 
material (in light of my other findings) but I should point out that the information I have 
suggests that Mr A borrowed the money to fund this purchase on a credit card account  not 
a loan  with a BNPL period and an APR of nearly 20%. I accept BPF was required to 
undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mr A was likely to be able to afford to repay the 
borrowing without too much trouble. But, even if I were to find BPF didnt do all that it should 
have when agreeing to lend, I would still need to be satisfied that the finance was actually 
unaffordable for Mr A - in order to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
I havent got much information about Mr As circumstances at the relevant time but I can see
he paid off the debt in 2008. I appreciate Mr A says (in the questionnaire) he was only able
to do this because he borrowed money from family members. But, I havent seen anyevidence from Mr A - or elsewhere - that suggests the borrowing was unaffordable for him
when he took it out. And I cant reasonably uphold this part of the complaint.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair and
reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr A unfairly or
acted unreasonably and I cant properly require BPF to compensate Mr A or do anything
else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any
additional comments or new evidence by 16 March 2022. I explained that Id review all the
evidence available after that and make my final decision.
BPF hasnt made any further submissions and Mr A accepts my provisional conclusions. I 
see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision in the circumstances. I 
remain of the view that there arent sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this 
complaint. I dont think BPF has treated Mr A unfairly or acted unreasonably. And I cant 
properly require BPF to compensate Mr A or do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman