DRN-3687799
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent his account statements to a third party.
What happened
Mr J says he was involved in a difficult divorce involving solicitors and court proceedings. 
He says HSBC told him it had received a court order in which it was ordered to serve his 
account statements on his ex-wifes solicitors up to March 2021. Mr J says he told HSBC 
that date was wrong, and the statement request ought to have been limited to 2011. He 
says he told HSBC to contact his solicitor but says it had already disclosed the statements 
before speaking to him which meant he couldnt sort the mistake out. Mr J says he has 
been caused significant distress and anxiety as well as being concerned about how his 
account information could be used. He has provided a letter from a solicitor confirming 
that HSBC made a mistake with the date.
HSBC says it was served with a court order and had no choice but to disclose Mr Js 
account statements. It says it acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by 
doing so. HSBC says it received the request in March 2021 and received various letters 
from Mr Js ex-wifes solicitors in July 2021 including a letter dated 13 July 2021 which 
specified the dates of the statements. It says it complied with the court order on 20 July 
2021 and spoke to Mr J on 21 July 2021.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought HSBC was obliged to comply with a court order and that the account terms and 
conditions allowed it to do so.
Mr J doesnt accept that view.
I asked both sides for further information. I asked HSBC for the full court order including 
the appendix which specified the dates of the statements required. I also asked for the 13 
July 2021 letter which also specified the dates of the required statements.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I said I intended to uphold this complaint. I asked HSBC for the full court order and the 
solicitors letter of 13 July 2021 as I had not seen any evidence on HSBCs records of 
either document. I found that the letter had not been provided to us and that only part of 
the court order had been provided which didnt contain the appendix or the dates of 
statements required. I saw an extract from a letter that appears to have been sent by a 
solicitor to Mr J in which it says a request was not made for statements extending past 
2011. I said I hoped Mr J would provide the full letter and said I was unsure why he had 
just provided an extract.
I said I couldnt be sure in those circumstances that HSBC was served with a court order 
that required it to provide Mr Js account statements up to 2021. And I thought it more 
likely that HSBC has made a mistake in its interpretation of the court order and had sent 
statements past the required date. I was satisfied that about ten years of Mr Js account 
statements had been mistakenly provided to a third party in the context of a contested 
and difficult divorce.
I didnt think it clear why HSBC took so long to speak to Mr J when it was initially served 
with the court order in March 2021. I could see from letters sent to it by a firm of solicitors 
that HSBC ignored the court order and correspondence. I was satisfied that had it 
contacted Mr J far sooner than it did, then Mr J could have clarified the date issue which 
may have resulted in his personal information not being disclosed. I also thought it clear 
that different departments in HSBC were not speaking to each other, as one department 
had sent the statements but the other was unaware of that and told Mr J he would be 
contacted first.
I thought in those circumstances and in the absence of the full details here that Mr J 
would have been caused distress and inconvenience. I explained that it was not our 
role to punish HSBC as Mr J would like but I thought it ought to pay compensation for 
what took place.
My provisional view was that HSBCs mistake caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience in the context of legal proceedings. I didnt think Mr J suffered any financial 
loss but accepted his concern about his confidential information being viewed by the 
opposing side in that legal dispute. I said I intended to order HSBC to pay Mr J £600 
compensation which I thought fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I 
said I will of course review any further information or documents provided and I hoped Mr 
J could provide the full letter I referred to.
HSBC has replied to my view and says it will pay the compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill, but it hasnt provided the full court order or correspondence.
Mr J accepts my view but says there were good reasons not to provide the full letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. Im satisfied that HSBC has not provided any evidence 
that it was required to disclose Mr Js account statements from 2011 on. I think it would have 
been helpful to have seen the full letter from Mr J and cant see why Mr J couldnt have 
provided it to us as it would have clearly assisted. But I dont think it matters now, in the light 
of HSBCs agreement with my provisional decision.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr J £600 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr J 
£600 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman