DRN-3075610
The complaint
Miss U complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited unfairly took steps to 
repossess her home, even though it knew she was in the process of selling it.
 
What happened
Miss U took out an interest only mortgage with another lender. The mortgage term ended in 
2016. 
On 10 November 2018, the mortgage was transferred to Kensington. Around that time Miss 
U had contacted Kensington to say that her son was in the process of buying her home and 
it would take six to eight weeks for the sale to complete. 
Kensington said that it didnt hear from Miss U again until 19 February 2019, with an eviction 
hearing due on 25 February. Miss U said the sale had been delayed due to an issue with the 
lease and she needed more time. But Kensington said that as the mortgage had expired in 
2016 it wasnt able to give more time. The hearing went ahead, and the judge adjourned the 
case for two weeks. 
The property eventually sold in May 2019. But only after another court hearing where the 
warrant for possession was suspended.
Kensington considered that it had acted reasonably as Miss U didnt keep it up to date with 
the progress of the sale since a redemption statement had been issued in October 2018.
Miss U said that in November 2018, her solicitor had written to Kensington, but it hadnt 
returned it. The next she heard was when she received notice of the court hearing. She said 
that the number of court hearings increased the amount she owed Kensington, which led to 
difficulties in redeeming the mortgage and another court hearing.  
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss U didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been set up against Kensington. And Im only looking at its actions since 
it bought Miss Us mortgage in November 2018. I understand that the previous lender is 
responsible for any acts or omissions before that date. So I am not going to make any 
findings about what happened before November 2018. 
know it wont be much comfort for her, but I was sorry to hear what Miss U had been 
through. I can see that she found herself unable to repay the mortgage balance at the end of 
the mortgage term and she has had a number of problems relating to the property and the 
mortgage over the years. But Im afraid it doesnt follow that Kensington treated Miss U 
unfairly or unreasonably during the period I am looking at.
I say that because, although Kensington knew Miss Us son planned to buy her home, there 
is no persuasive evidence that it received an update about the progress of the sale between 
November 2018 and February 2019. In addition, the term of the mortgage had ended in 
2016, there was already a possession order in place, an earlier proposed sale to her son 
had not gone ahead and the mortgage interest wasnt being paid. In all of those 
circumstances, I dont consider that it was unreasonable for Kensington to go ahead with the 
court hearings and take the action it did.
Under the terms and conditions of the mortgage, Kensington was entitled to pass on any 
costs it reasonably incurred in connection with the mortgage, including legal proceedings. 
Ive already found that it was reasonable for Kensington to take the action it did. And looking 
at the costs that were applied, they arent out of line with what I would expect to see in these 
circumstances.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss U, but I cant see that Kensington has treated her unfairly or that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman