DRN-3064617
The complaint
Miss B complains that the interest being added to her account with NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua is incorrect.
What happened
Miss B says that she makes a payment towards her account which is over the minimum 
amount required each month but each month her interest payment is increasing. She 
contacted NewDay and says she received and email with different rates to those on her 
statements. She then received a letter saying her account would be credited that day with 
£35 but says this didnt happen. Miss B wants the correct calculation to take place and to be 
refunded any amounts she has been overcharged. 
NewDay says that the interest on Miss Bs account has been charged correctly. It explained 
that it calculates interest from the date a transaction is added to an account to the date the 
transaction is paid in full. If a customer pays the full balance every month, they will not incur 
any interest. However, if the full balance is not cleared, then the transactions incur interest 
from the date they are applied to the account up to the date the account is paid in full. 
NewDay apologised that Miss B hadnt received the service she should have done but said 
the £85 compensation offered was reasonable. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence to say that Miss B was being incorrectly 
charged the interest on her account. She noted that Miss B hadnt received the £35 that was 
said to have been credited to her account in the 7 May 2021 letter and said this should be 
paid. She noted that NewDay had written to Miss B saying that her interest rates would be 
changed and then again explained in that this wouldnt happen. She said NewDay had 
acknowledged Miss Bs experience could have been better and apologised and credited 
Miss Bs account with £50 which she thought reasonable.
Our investigator thought the £85 compensation was fair and reasonable based on the issues 
Miss B had experienced. 
NewDay accepted our investigators view and confirmed that the payment of the outstanding 
£35 had been made.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigators outcome. She reiterated that she wasnt being 
charged correctly on her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs main complaint is about the interest NewDay is charging on her account. She thinks 
this is incorrect and wants it to be recalculated.
I have looked at Miss Bs credit agreement dated November 2018, and this sets out the 
interest rates charged for the purchases, transfers and cash. These are linked to the Bank of 
England base rate. I have looked at the statements Miss B has provided (all post March 
2020) and these show the rates being 0.65% lower than set out in the credit agreement. As 
the base rate was reduced by 0.65% in March 2020 this shows the rates set out in the initial 
credit agreement are in line with those shown on Miss Bs statements.
Miss B has said that the interest isnt being calculated correctly and noted that she is paying 
more than the minimum amount but her interest is increasing. I have looked at a sample of 
statements and these show her outstanding balance and the interest charged. While Miss B 
has paid over the minimum payment she still has an outstanding balance and so interest is 
being charged. My role isnt to audit the accounts but having looked at the information I do 
not find I can say there has been a mistake in how the interest has been calculated.
Miss B raised her concerns about the interest rates with NewDay and received an email 
dated 25 February 2021 setting out her interest rates. These were recorded as:
1) Standard Purchase Rate (retail) is 28.93% Yearly
2) Standard Balance Transfer Rate is 28.93% Yearly
3) Standard Cash Rate (cash) is 38.87% Yearly
I can understand why this caused confusion as these rates are different to those quoted on 
her monthly statements. NewDay has explained that the interest rates included in the email 
were the compound APR compared to the interest rates that are shown on the statements 
which are the simple interest rates. This explains the difference in the information provided.
Miss B had also raised other service issues. I agree that she hasnt been provided with the 
service she should have. NewDays final response letter dated 7 May 2021 said that Miss B 
had been credited with £35 due to the issues regarding the reporting of the payment holiday 
on her credit file, but this payment hadnt been made. This letter also didnt address Miss Bs 
concerns about her interest rate. NewDay then sent her correspondence saying the interest 
rates would be increased and then later withdrew this. Because of the issues, NewDay 
credited Miss B with £50  and then later paid the initial £35 noted in the 7 May letter. In this 
case, I think a total of £85 compensation is fair and reasonable for the service issues that 
Miss B has raised. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua has done enough by paying a total of 
£85 compensation for the issues Miss B has experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman