DRN-3510145
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) hasnt done enough to protect him against 
the loss of money to a scam.
What happened
Mr S says that he opened an account with an investment business that I will call A. They 
convinced Mr S that if he deposited funds with this business it would trade on his behalf and 
make him money. He therefore made a debit card payment of £187.18 to a third party I will 
call B.  Around a month later A persuaded Mr S to make two further payments of £733.32 to 
a third-party payment provider that I will call C. 
When the website of A was removed from the internet and Mr S was unable to get his 
money back ,Mr S subsequently reported to Metro that hed been scammed. As he felt that 
Metro shouldve done more to prevent him from making the transactions. He requested that 
his transactions be refunded.
Mr S complained, and remaining unhappy, referred his complaint about Metro to us. As our 
investigator (who didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld) couldnt resolve the matter 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Should Metro have prevented the payments in the first place
I dont think Metro could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr S says 
he lost to a scam. This is because at the time, banks were generally expected to process 
payments that a customer authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payment. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Metro should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
In relation to the first transaction I dont think that it was sufficiently out of character for Metro 
to have intervened. In relation to the second and third transaction, Metro did flag one of 
these payments as suspicious though it does not have records of which payment or why it 
was flagged. Mr S has mentioned that he was called by Metro and was just asked if he 
authorised this transaction. This suggests, albeit on balance, that Metro was concerned that 
the transaction was unauthorised rather than it was part of a scam. Given the amount of the 
payment I dont think it was sufficiently large or unusual for Metro to have asked further 
questions if its only concern was whether the transaction was authorised by Mr S. So I cant 
say overall that Metro did anything wrong in relation to this and I think the check it carried out 
was proportionate to the risk it recognised at the time.
Chargeback
The disputed card payments were sent using Mr Ss Mastercard. I agree with our 
investigator that as he made the payments to an investment scam, Metro acted fairly in not 
attempting a chargeback claim for these payments. The chargeback rules Mastercard has 
set mean that Mr S wouldnt be able to make a successful claim for his situation, and so I 
dont think Metro were obligated to have attempted one.
I accept Mr S has been the victim of a sophisticated investment scam. However, I dont 
agree Metro made any errors in processing the payments he sent. And unfortunately, there 
are no recovery options available for him, so I cant ask Metro to reimburse the lost funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman