DRN-1681876
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card in 1998. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy. The PPI 
policy covered him against not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy would have paid a monthly 
benefit of 10% of the credit card balance for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M applied for the credit card and was sold the PPI after completing an application form at 
an RBS branch. RBS does not have a copy of the application form. That isnt surprising as 
over 20 years have passed since the sale. But from experience I am aware that Mr M would 
likely have needed to indicate on the application form that he required PPI in order for it to 
be added to his account.
Mr M has told us he was given the impression that choosing to add PPI would aid the 
chances of his application being accepted. I accept it is possible this happened, but I have to 
take into account that the sale took place many years ago and memories do fade.
The PPI premiums appeared on Mr Ms monthly statements for many years until 2003 when 
it was cancelled so I think Mr M would have been aware of the PPI during that time.
Taking everything into account I think RBS I think it is most likely RBS made it clear that Mr 
M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant remember this bearing in mind the sale took place over 20 years 
ago.
I dont think RBS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, for example any medical conditions he 
already knew about - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr Ms employer would pay some sick pay if he was unwell. But the PPI wouldve paid a 
benefit in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would last.  
 It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So taking everything into account, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking out the cover.
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But RBS has paid pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because RBS 
didnt tell him, that was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has paid Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair. So I make no further 
award against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman