DRN-1538948
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wrote to him to advise his 
current account he held with it, would be closed with 60 days notice. 
What happened
Mr M has said he approached an RBS branch in May at roughly 9am. But when he arrived, 
he realised the branch actually opened at 9.15am, so he waited. Mr M said at 9.15 the 
branch didn't open, and he could see staff members casually seated. So, he rattled the door 
hoping to get the attention of the staff members, as he was in a rush. On that Mr M says a 
staff member (Mr X) accused him of trying to break the door  which was not his intention.
On Thursday 9 May Mr M went into the same branch again and asked another customer 
service agent for Mr Xs name. But on that Mr X appeared and accused Mr M of swearing at 
him on his previous visit. Mr M says that Mr X had got very close to him and on two 
occasions he had asked him to move away while he completed his transaction.  Mr M has 
said Mr X refused to move and barged him out the way, and then he said very loudly that he 
might close his account.
Mr M received a letter from RBS dated 10 May advising him that it would be closing his 
account after 60 days in line with the terms and conditions. Mr M feels the decision to close 
his account was unfair and unjustified. He feels how he was treated was unfair and 
extremely embarrassing. So, he raised a formal complaint with RBS.
RBS issued its final response, it said having spoken to the branch team, their version of 
events differed to Mr Ms and therefore it was unable to determine what happened. But as 
the branch staff help consumers on a day to day basis, the decision rests with them and 
overall RBS wont contest it. So the decision to close Mr Ms account remained the same. 
Mr M wasn't happy with RBS final decision and bought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, but he didn't recommend that it be upheld. He said 
the terms and conditions of the account states that RBS reserve the right to close any 
banking facility, without reason, providing they allow 60 days notice for a consumer to 
arrange alternative banking arrangements. So, he was satisfied that RBS had followed the 
correct process. And while RBS dont have to provide a reason as to why they wished to 
close the account, it has said it's due to the relationship breaking down.
Mr M didn't agree, he said the relationship with him, and RBS hadn't broken down, just his 
relationship with Mr X. And he feels RBS should be made to explain what happened. 
Because of this Mr M asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Having reviewed the terms and conditions 
I'm satisfied it says that RBS can close an account as long as it gives a customer 60 days 
notice.
Its not disputed that RBS sent Mr M a letter on 10 May 2019 explaining it was giving him 
notice that his account would close in 60 days. So with that in mind I cant say RBS has 
acted unfairly. As explained a bank can choose to close a customers account as long as it 
follows the correct process and I can see that in this case RBS has. 
I understand that Mr M is very frustrated as he feels  RBS should explain what its version of 
events is, in order for it to reach the decision to close his account. And I understand why Mr 
M would like this information, especially as he feels RBS decision is unfair. RBS has said it 
decided to close the account because it felt the relationship had broken down, and while I 
cant comment on exactly what happened in branch that day, its not in dispute that an 
altercation occurred. But ultimately, RBS doesn't need to provide that information. Its terms 
and conditions say it can end a relationship as long as it gives 60 days notice. It doesn't 
state it has to provide a reason. And so, it would be unreasonable for me to demand an 
explanation when RBS is simply relying on its terms and conditions which its customers 
agree to when opening and using an account with it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman