DRN-2353912
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took possession of under a conditional sale agreement 
(finance agreement) with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and at no time was the cash price of the car made clear to him by the suppling 
dealership.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr W took possession of a car costing £5,057. Mr W paid a deposit of 
£400 and financed the balance of £4,657 by way of a finance agreement with Moneybarn.
Everything else being equal Mr W agreed, under the terms of the finance agreement, to 
make 59 monthly payments of £182.92 making a total payable (inclusive of the £400 
deposit) of £11,192.28.
In October 2019 Mr W raised a number of concerns he had about the quality of the car. 
However neither the supplying dealership nor a third party diagnostic centre could find any 
fault with it. 
Unhappy with Moneybarns response to his quality complaint Mr W referred it to our service 
for investigation. In doing so he also submitted that at no time did the supplying dealership 
bring to his attention the cash price of the car he was taking possession of.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary he said he was satisfied that Mr W was aware, or should 
have been aware, of the cash price of the car he was taking possession of and he had seen 
insufficient evidence to conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when first 
supplied.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
First I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision the complaint that 
Mr W was supplied with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality and that at no time was the 
cash price of the car brought clearly to his attention by the supplying dealership. Im not 
considering any other concerns Mr W might have about what Moneybarn has, or hasnt 
done.
Secondly I would point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr W says the supplying dealership at no time made it clear to him what the cash price of 
the car he was taking possession of was. Now I know I cant say for certain this wasnt the 
case, but I dont find such a submission to be particularly persuasive or plausible.
First I find it difficult to accept that Mr W agreed to take possession of car without knowing 
what the cash price of it was. But even if I was to accept Mr W was unsure initially as to the 
exact cash price of the car Im satisfied he could and should have known what it was before 
he committed to taking possession of it and committing to the finance agreement. 
I say this because the finance agreement and the finance agreement explanation document, 
both signed by Mr W, state the cash price as being £5,057. Furthermore Moneybarn has 
submitted that Mr W was supplied with a sales invoice which also states the cash price as 
being £5,057.
I will now turn to Mr Ws submission that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied 
to him. Now its my understanding that the car is no longer available for a further inspection 
to be carried out. So I need to make a finding on this point based on what has been provided 
to date.
Now I appreciate I cant say for certain that Mr W is wrong in his submission that he took 
possession of a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. But given that Moneybarn has been 
able to provide a report from a third party diagnostic centre (as well as submissions from the 
supplying dealership) submitting the opposite, I find on balance that Mr W wasnt supplied 
with a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. In other words, I find Moneybarns submissions 
to be the more plausible and persuasive.
I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed. But in my view he was, on the balance of 
probabilities, aware or should have been aware of the cash price of the car and that the car 
was supplied to him in a satisfactory condition.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman