DRN-4236095
The complaint
Mr B complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd didnt provide assistance in line with 
the terms of his roadside assistance insurance when his car broke down.
Where I refer to Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd this includes its claims handlers and 
agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr B was driving on a motorway with his partner when the car broke down. His partner 
called Building Block asking for assistance.
The call handler provided phone numbers for five local garages to call, to see if they could 
provide recovery for the car. Mr B says they tried all five numbers but only one answered 
and they didnt have a recovery service.
Mr Bs partner called again and was given some more numbers which they tried calling 
without success. He was able to start the car and drove to the motorway services where they 
were able to arrange a recovery service to take them home, but had to pay £570 for this.
When Mr B complained Building Block didnt uphold his complaint. It said: 
the call handler provided contact numbers for local garages within the area the 
vehicle could be recovered to and Mr B was advised to call back once he had 
arranged a garage;
the claims handler needs to have a destination before arranging assistance;
assistance was offered on a paid basis if Mr B wanted recovery to the address he 
provided but instead he attempted to contact other garages;
the claims handler provided all options in an attempt to assist.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
She asked Building Block to reimburse Mr B the £570 he had spent and pay compensation 
of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B has accepted the investigators view but Building Block has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. 
The policy provides cover for up to 60 minutes roadside assistance and to carry out 
temporary repairs. If this isnt possible, the car will be taken to a garage.
If repairs cant be carried out the same day, the cover then provides Recovery for You, Your 
Vehicle and up to four passengers to your home address or chosen location 
So Mr B could reasonably expect Building Block to send someone to try and repair his car; if 
that couldnt be done at the roadside, to provided recovery to a garage; and, if it couldnt be 
repaired that day, take him, his partner and the car back home. None of this happened.
Building Block said home recovery wasnt possible as the car was more than 100 miles 
away. But theres no specific exclusion about this in the policy so it wasnt fair not to arrange 
this. 
Building Block did offer recovery to a garage but said Mr B had to find one that was available 
and sent contact details for local garages. I dont think this was reasonable in the 
circumstances  Mr B was stranded and had low mobile battery. It was also late afternoon 
and none of the garages he tried to contact was able to assist. The response from Building 
Block was simply to send numbers for more garages. 
Building Block should have arranged for recovery to a garage and, if that wasnt possible or 
the garage couldnt repair the car, should then have arranged recovery to Mr Bs home in 
line with the policy terms. 
I appreciate Building Block has referred to the fact Mr B managed to get the car started 
again, but I can understand his fear of driving further until it had been checked, since there 
was likely a good chance of breaking down again. 
Mr B has explained the difficult situation he and his partner were in  stranded at the side of 
the motorway late in the afternoon when the weather was poor and it was getting dark. His 
partner had health issues, their mobile phone battery was running out and the situation was 
distressing. The failure to deal with the claim fairly added to their distress in what was 
already a very worrying situation so its fair he should be compensated for this, along with 
reimbursement for costs he should not have had to pay.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to pay:
£570 for the cost of recovery (subject to Mr B providing it with proof of payment for 
his costs) together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date Mr B paid those 
costs to the date of settlement; and 
 £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman