DRN-3193575
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about a mortgage they held with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Following the resolution of a complaint made about the administration of a lump sum 
payment made to the mortgage, they had further concerns. These started when they were 
some documentation told them they had a prepayment balance on the mortgage, which they 
didnt understand. They are unhappy that Barclays failed to explain clearly and simply what 
had happened or to respond promptly to their questions. Due to this, they had concerns 
about a redemption statement provided in June 2020, which they consider prevented them 
from repaying the mortgage in full.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays. Periodically they made lump 
sum payments to the account to reduce its balance. In 2019 they raised concerns about the 
allocation of a lump sum theyd paid in May 2009 as the contractual monthly payment (CMP) 
hadnt gone down immediately afterwards, as they had expected it to. The CMP hadnt 
changed until the standard review date at the end of the mortgage year. 
Barclays confirmed that this was because the payment had been applied as an overpayment 
rather than as a partial redemption. Both processes reduce the interest-bearing balance of 
the mortgage. However, with an overpayment, the CMP remains the same until the end of 
the mortgage year. This results in a partial capital reduction each month during that period, 
which further reduced the mortgage balance for interest purposes.  A partial redemption is 
where the mortgage balance is reduced, and the CMP is recalculated immediately. The 
lower CMP reflects the interest payable on the lower balance. 
The error was identified when Mr and Mrs Ns complaint was looked into in 2019. The 
application of the payment was changed as at the end of the previous mortgage year. The 
change wasnt backdated to 2009 because of the problems that trying to complete such a 
historic change would have caused with the account. The CMP was adjusted, and Barclays 
paid Mr and Mrs N £50 for the inconvenience the matter had caused them. 
The change made resulted in Barclays identifying the small capital reduction amounts 
contained within the CMPs paid since the change date, as a prepayment balance. This was 
manually added to the mortgage account. Those amounts had previously been allocated as 
a reduction in the mortgage balance. Irrespective of what the descriptor used was, mortgage 
interest was paid on the same balance. 
If the prepayment amount had been refunded to Mr and Mrs N or used toward the CMP for 
the following months, the interest attracting balance would have increased and so would the 
amount of interest Mr and Mrs N would have needed to pay each month.  Barclays has 
confirmed that because this would happen, it doesnt automatically refund such sums or use 
them toward the CMP unless asked by the account holders.
Following receipt of information about their mortgage in the spring of 2020 showing the 
prepayment balance created by the changes made in 2019, Mr and Mrs N raised another 
complaint. They didnt understand what the prepayment balance was or how it had come 
about. As such, they were concerned that lump sum payments theyd made hadnt been 
applied properly and too much interest might have been charged.
Mr and Mrs N also requested redemption statements, telling them how much they needed to 
pay to clear the mortgage in March 2020 and June 2020. 
Barclays responded to the complaint and upheld it. It explained what had happened when 
the case handler changed the earlier lump sum payment from an overpayment to a 
part-redemption during the previous complaint. It said this accounted for around £210 of the 
prepayment balance. The remainder was the difference between the CMP of 
December 2019 and the interest that was actually charged in that month; it being lower due 
to a partial redemption paid on 2 December 2019. The amount of excess CMP was £42.27, 
which was automatically allocated to the following months CMP. However, as the amount 
was higher than the January 2020 CMP, the difference was added to the prepayment 
balance. Barclays reassured Mr and Mrs N that the correct amount of interest had been 
charged on the account and it apologised for the distress and inconvenience theyd been 
caused. To compensate them for this, Barclays credited their bank account with £200. 
Mr and Mrs N asked Barclays further questions about their mortgage. They also asked for a 
statement of mortgage transactions for the full term of their mortgage. They wanted to know 
how the error identified in 2009 come to light and whether it was corrected going forward. 
They asked why they werent told about it in November 2009.  In addition, Mr and Mrs N 
asked questions about the redemption statements theyd been sent, including why the 
prepayment balance hadnt been taken off the June statement. They also wanted to know 
why the June 2020 redemption figure was higher than that provided in March 2020.  They 
remained dissatisfied with the answers theyd received. 
Barclays confirmed the 2009 error was not picked up until Mr and Mrs N complained in 2019. 
The difference in the redemption amounts on the two statements was explained  it was 
essentially down to when in the month the redemption statement was dated and the 
application of interest. It was confirmed the prepayment amount had been included in the 
redemption statements. Barclays also sent Mr and Mrs N copies of all mortgage statements 
for the entire term of the mortgage. Barclays again accepted that its handling of the matter 
had been poor and that some of the additional answers it gave had needed some 
clarification.
Barclays explained the prepayment balance amount again and provided a monetary 
example (based on the September part-redemption). This showed what should happen 
when a part-redemption was credited to the mortgage and how the pre-payment balance 
had been created.  Mr and Mrs N were again reassured that they hadnt paid any additional 
interest due to the error in how the May 2009 lump sum had been allocated to the mortgage. 
Mr N acknowledged after this explanation to understanding the concepts involved. However, 
this then resulted in him raising further questions about the pre-payment balance.
There was further communication between Mr and Mrs N and Barclays. Barclays offered to 
call Mr N to have a discussion as it thought this might be a better way to communicate and 
ensure that he understood what he needed to. Mr and Mrs N considered that the further 
explanations were inconsistent throughout and they asked why Barclays was unable to 
provide a simple explanation as to what should have happened and acknowledge that wasnt 
what happened. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs N werent satisfied and referred the complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He acknowledged that how a mortgage 
worked can be confusing and that it can be difficult to understand how payments are 
processed and interest adjusted. However, he thought Barclays had explained everything Mr and Mrs N had questioned, and he didnt think Barclays had made any errors in 
calculating the interest on the mortgage. He was also satisfied that Barclays had provided 
Mr and Mrs N with redemption statements that would have allowed them to pay off their 
mortgage. 
The investigator was also satisfied the figures in the redemption statements had been 
calculated had been explained and he didnt think there was evidence to show the figures 
were wrong. As Mr and Mrs N could have repaid their mortgage in June 2020, he didnt think 
Barclays could be held responsible for any interest incurred after that date. That said, he 
agreed the customer service Mr and Mrs N had received was not of the standard that would 
be expected, but he thought the compensation Barclays had already offered was an 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said that they thought the 
investigator had ignored the correspondence sent to them between July and October 2020. 
As the compensation payment had been made for poor communication up to the June 2020 
complaint response, they considered they should receive more compensation for the period 
after June. They said that while the investigator had decided the mistakes had been rectified 
and the lump sum payments had been correctly credited, they were still finding it difficult to 
understand the explanation of what had happened and why. They suggested that it cannot 
be beyond the capability of the banking industry to find better ways of explaining their 
methodologies and approach so that their customers can understand what is happening. 
They consider they are entitled as customers to a clear explanation from Barclays that they 
can understand. 
The investigator explained that our jurisdiction meant that we could only consider complaints 
about issues that had been raised with a business and it had had an opportunity to respond 
to. Barclays response to the complaint Mr and Mrs N raised had been made in its final 
response letter of 6 August 2020. As such, the investigator had considered the complaint 
made to Barclays and to which it had responded. If Mr and Mrs N had concerns about the 
clarity of the subsequent correspondence, they should refer it to Barclays in the first 
instance.  He also reiterated that the working of mortgages is complicated and can only be 
simplified to a point. He said he had tried to explain what had happened clearly and simply 
and he didnt think he could simplify it any further. 
In response Mr and Mrs N reiterated their previous comments about the correspondence 
that had been exchanged after the final response. They said they didnt think this should be 
ignored or characterised as a complaint about the handling of their complaint. They also said 
they didnt accept that neither this service nor Barclays could provide a clear explanation that 
they could understand. They also said that £200 was not adequate compensation for the 
mistakes and the tens of hours they had devoted to trying to obtain simple answers to their 
questions.  As such, they asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for 
consideration.
Having reviewed the complaint, I asked Barclays if it would consent to the me considering 
Mr and Mrs Ns concerns about the correspondence it sent to them between the final 
response in August 2020 and their referral of the complaint to this service. It agreed to this 
request and so I have considered all of the correspondence Mr and Mrs N have concerns 
about.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before I consider the complaint Mr and Mrs N referred to us, I would confirm that my 
consideration will not be commenting on the matter of the error that originally occurred in 2009. That was dealt with under a previous complaint and Mr and Mrs N didnt ask us to 
consider that complaint within the relevant timescales. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said, the workings of a mortgage can be complicated and difficult to 
explain in simple terms that a layperson can understand. It is never ideal for a consumer to 
ask questions and receive answers they dont understand or which they dont think answer 
their questions. However, its clear that Barclays tried to explain what had happened to 
Mr and Mrs N and used several members of staff and departments to do so. While Barclays 
appears to have done this to try and help the situation, I am not sure that it did so, especially 
when the experts used jargon. This also raised concerns for Mr and Mrs N that their 
complaint wasnt being dealt with by the right people, in respect to their knowledge and 
understanding of the system issues in question.
Mr and Mrs N have said that they want additional compensation for the communication 
regarding their further questions following Barclays final response of June 2020. It clearly 
took several attempts at explaining the situation relating to the prepayment balance before 
Mr N acknowledged understanding what had happened and why. Although this then created 
further questions. Barclay accepted that some of its further communications could have been 
clearer. 
While its clear that Mr and Mrs N werent happy with the further information they were given, 
and so questioned things further, I am not persuaded that Barclays explanations were 
wrong. For the most part, I dont think they were inadequate or unable to be understood by a 
layperson either. However, I in light of Barclays acknowledgement that some of its further 
communications could have been clearer, I think it should increase the compensation to 
£275 in total.  
Mr and Mrs N consider the problems with the explanations from Barclays prevented them 
from redeeming their mortgage when they planned to. I am not persuaded that is the case. 
While they had questions about the redemption statements and the difference in the figures 
on them, this didnt prevent the mortgage being paid off. The amount of money in question 
was minimal and so they could easily have repaid the mortgage to mitigate any potential loss 
while they waited for further explanations. As such, I dont consider Barclays needs to make 
a payment in this regard.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision and confirmed that it would pay the increase 
compensation amount.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept my provisional decision. They said that the events of 2009 and 
those in 2020 are linked and should not be viewed separately. They also said that they didnt 
think my account of what happened in 2009 was right  they believe that the payment they 
made wasnt credited to the mortgage and so they paid more interest that they should have 
for around ten years. Mr and Mrs N repeated that they hadnt understood Barclays 
explanations. They reiterated their previous comments about why they didnt repay their 
mortgage when they were originally intending to do so and their loss of confidence in 
Barclays, which they believe has cost them hundreds of pounds in additional interest 
payments. They remain of the view that Barclays should be directed to reimburse them for 
the additional interest they have paid, or at least make a greater contribution to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr and Mrs Ns comment about the events of 2009 and what they believe happened, 
and so they think the background above is incorrect. I have reviewed all of the evidence I 
have available and I am satisfied that the above explanation of what happened is correct. 
The money was credited to the account, but not it the way that Mr and Mrs N wanted it to be, 
hence the monthly payment didnt change when it should have. They didnt pay any 
additional interest, rather they paid additional amounts off the balance. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs N didnt ask us to consider the 2019 
complaint and as such, I havent done so. In addition, even if they had, its unlikely we would 
have been able to do so due to the time that had passed since Barclays issued its final 
response on that complaint. That said, I can assure Mr and Mrs N that I am aware of what 
happened in relation to the 2009 payment and the 2019 complaint, and that information was 
taken account of when I issued my provisional decision.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Ns comments about the situation again, but I havent been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions. I am satisfied that the increased compensation payment 
is the appropriate redress in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs N a total of £275 compensation (less any payments already made).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman