DRN-2301335
The complaint
Mr O complains about the settlement hes been paid by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. for a cancellation claim he on made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr O was due to travel abroad on 23 August 2019. Unfortunately, on 7 May 2019, he was 
admitted into hospital with sepsis. While he was in hospital, Mr Os right hip had to be 
removed to help treat the infection. He was discharged on 20 June 2019 with antibiotics, so 
that he could undergo hip replacement surgery. Mr O had to cancel the holiday on 15 August 
2019 and he ultimately underwent hip replacement surgery on 27 August 2019. He made a 
claim for the cancellation costs he incurred.
Mapfre partly settled Mr Os claim. It paid out for Mr Os share of the costs of non-refundable 
flights and bed and breakfast accommodation. But it only paid 10% of his claim for the main 
accommodation hed booked. Thats because the accommodation providers terms and 
conditions stated that if trips were cancelled with more than 43 days notice, it would only 
apply 10% cancellation costs. The medical certificate Mr Os GP had filled in said the need 
to cancel the trip had been apparent on 7 May 2019. Mapfre said it gave a three-day period 
for policyholders to cancel trips once theyre aware they need to do so. If Mr O had cancelled 
his trip within this three-day period, hed only have been liable for 10% of the 
accommodation costs.
Mr O wasnt happy with Mapfres decision and he complained. He said hed been in no fit 
state to cancel the trip on 7 May 2019, when he was admitted to hospital. Mapfre 
reconsidered Mr Os complaint. It acknowledged Mr O wouldve struggled to cancel the trip 
within the original timeframe, given the situation. But it felt Mr O wouldve known he needed 
to cancel the trip by the time he was discharged from hospital on 20 June 2019. So it felt it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to cancel the trip at this point. If he had, the applicable 
accommodation fees would still have been 10% of the balance. So Mapfre maintained its 
decision and Mr O asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mapfre had treated Mr O fairly. She said the policy terms and 
conditions explained that policyholders needed to make cancellation arrangements once 
they knew they wouldnt be able to travel. Based on the evidence, she felt it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr O to have cancelled his trip when he was discharged from hospital. If he 
had, his accommodation cancellation costs wouldve been limited to 10% of the balance. So 
she felt it was fair for Mapfre to settle the claim in line with what its liability wouldve been 
around this time.
Mr O disagreed. He said his complaint wasnt simply about financial compensation. But he 
felt the outcome consolidated what consumers generally think about the travel insurance 
industry and its reliance on the small print - which many people dont read in detail - to turn 
down claims. He said when people take out travel insurance, they expect to be protected if 
something goes wrong. He didnt think reading the small print was top of peoples priority list. 
He considered the investigators assessment undermined the confidence the general public 
have in the travel insurance industry. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfre has settled Mr Os claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important that I explain our role. We consider individual complaints brought by 
consumers against the financial businesses we cover. We investigate whether, in the 
specific circumstances of each case, a financial business has done anything wrong and 
whether it needs to do anything to put an error right. As the investigator explained, the 
industry regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Mr Os indicated hes likely to get 
in touch with the FCA to raise his concerns. I should point out though that the FCA doesnt 
investigate individual complaints  it focuses on wider industry issues.
Ive then turned to considered whether Mapfre considered Mr Os claim fairly and 
reasonably. 
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So Ive 
considered the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy, the available medical evidence and the 
circumstances of the claim in deciding whether Mapfre treated him fairly.
Mapfres policy terms and conditions form the basis of the contract between it and Mr O. So 
Ive considered them carefully. Page 11 sets out Claims Information and it includes the 
following term:
Claims for cancelling your trip
You must tell the carrier, holiday company or travel agent immediately if you know the trip 
will be cancelled, so you lose as little as possible. If you do not tell the carrier, holiday 
company or travel agent as soon as you find out that you have to cancel the trip, we will only 
pay the cancellation charges due at the date you found out you had to cancel the trip, not 
from the date you tell them.
I think the policy makes it clear that a policyholders required to cancel their trip as soon as 
they know they wont be able to travel. Its a general principle of insurance that policyholders 
should take reasonable steps to mitigate their possible losses. So Ive thought about when 
Mr O ought reasonably to have made arrangements to cancel his trip and what impact this 
wouldve had on the cancellation costs hed have incurred.
Mr O was admitted to hospital with sepsis on 7 May 2019. I accept that at this point, he was 
very ill and he didnt have a diagnosis until after hed been admitted. So while the medical 
certificate his GP filled out indicates it was apparent the trip needed to be cancelled on 7 
May 2019, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Mr O to cancel the trip at this 
point.
However, on 23 May 2019, Mr O underwent surgery to remove his hip. He was subsequently 
discharged from hospital on 20 June 2019, still on antibiotics. He knew hed need hip 
replacement surgery, but that this couldnt be done until his infection levels were clear for an 
extended timeframe. Mr O acknowledges that he didnt know how things would go. He says he had no guidance from the treating doctors about his fitness to travel and his indications 
had been good.
Mr O hadnt undergone hip replacement surgery at the point of his discharge though; he was 
still on antibiotics for an infection and he knew hed need to undergo surgery at some point 
after the infection had gone. So I think he ought to have known hed likely need to cancel the 
trip. This means I think it was reasonable for Mapfre to conclude that it wouldve been 
reasonable for him to have cancelled the holiday on or around that date. And I certainly think 
it wouldve been reasonable for him to cancel the trip by around 10 or 11 July 2019  at 
which point the 10% accommodation cancellation costs wouldve still applied. If hed done 
so, hed have mitigated Mapfres potential losses to this amount. On this basis, I think 
Mapfre has settled Mr Os claim fairly and in line with the policy terms.
I dont think Mapfre handled the claim as promptly as it mightve done and I acknowledge it 
did ask Mr O to provide duplicate information. So I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating 
for him. But I dont think this caused Mr O material distress and inconvenience which would 
lead me to make an award of compensation.
Overall, Im not telling Mapfre to pay Mr O anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman