DRN-2922218
The complaint
Mr M complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) acted unfairly in giving him a credit card, and 
then increasing his credit limit.  
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with MBNA in April 2013. MBNA carried out checks and 
offered him a credit card with a limit of £3900. MBNA increased Mr Ms limit to £7,800 in 
February 2014, and to £12,800 in August 2016.
Mr M informed MBNA in September 2019 that he was in financial difficulty, and after a period 
on a repayment plan, Mr M defaulted on his credit card account.
Mr M complained to MBNA in January 2020 that he didnt believe it had lent responsibly, and 
that it hadnt carried out adequate checks. He had accumulated £43,000 of debt and thought 
that MBNA and other lenders had acted irresponsibly.
MBNA said it had acted responsibly and explained the checks it had carried out when Mr M 
applied for his card, and the factors considered when increasing his limit.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his case to our service. Our investigator thought 
that that MBNA had carried out adequate checks when Mr M applied. He noted that MBNA 
used exclusion criteria to select customers for credit limit increases, but in the light of the 
size of the increases, he reviewed Mr Ms circumstances at the time of each increase. He 
concluded that MBNA hadnt acted irresponsibly.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and so the case came to me to decide. MBNA agreed that our 
service could review all the lending decisions in this case.
As I reached a different conclusion to the investigator, I issued a provisional decision, which 
is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have regulatory obligations when deciding to offer or increase credit. A lender has 
to carry out a creditworthiness assessment, including a proportionate affordability 
assessment to check that the borrower can repay the amount borrowed in a sustainable 
way. This means being able to repay the credit limit over a reasonable period without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments, and without having to borrow further.
Rules and guidance on this have been laid down by the current and previous regulators, the 
Financial Conduct Authority and the Office of Fair Trading. However, there is no set way to 
carry out the assessment. I have gone on to consider each lending decision made by MBNA 
below.
The application - £3900 limit
When Mr M applied for his card in April 2013, MBNA used information from a credit 
reference agency, and information provided by Mr M. When Mr M applied, he said he had a 
sole gross income of £12,900, and a household income of £30,000. He had a loan balance 
of £8508 and modest credit card balances of £3598 on two other cards. He had a mortgage 
balance of £69,304, with a total monthly payment of £670 noted in the application screens 
Ive seen. These also showed that Mr M had no dependants (I am aware that this isnt 
correct, but it was the information held by MBNA). In the light of this, I think its more likely 
than not that a reasonable estimate of Mr Ms disposable income wouldve shown the limit 
given was affordable. MBNA also took account of Mr Ms low over-indebtedness score 
provided by a credit reference agency using an industry standard measure, and I can see 
that Mr Ms credit card balances were less than 25% of his available limits.
Taking account of all of this, I cant fairly conclude that it was irresponsible of MBNA to give 
Mr M the initial limit of £3900.
Limit increase to £7800
In February 2014, MBNA doubled Mr Ms limit to £7800. MBNA has explained that it uses 
exclusion criteria in relation to credit limit increases. These include thresholds relating to 
over-indebtedness and behavioural scores, account limits, interest rates, and MBNAs 
internal rules. Mr M met MBNAs criteria, and there was no information to suggest he was 
not keeping up with his borrowing commitments. Accordingly, MBNA had no reason to think 
Mr M was in financial difficulty.
However, this of itself was not a measure of whether Mr M could afford an increased limit. As 
the increase was significant, MBNA shouldve considered whether Mr M could afford it. But I 
cant see that MBNA reviewed Mr Ms financial position to see if he could afford the increase. 
Accordingly, Ive looked at information that I think MBNA couldve reasonably looked at or 
asked for in addition to its standard checks  information from Mr Ms credit file, and his 
income and outgoings. I can see that Mr M had used over 90% of his available credit limits 
with MBNA and other lenders and had card balances totalling about £12000 compared to the 
balances of £3598 when he opened his account. While this showed a significant increase in 
Mr Ms credit card balances and utilisation, having regard to the information Ive seen about 
Mr Ms finances, I think it was more likely than not that he had enough disposable income to 
repay the available limit over a reasonable period without undue difficulty.
Accordingly, I dont think it was irresponsible of MBNA to increase his limit on this occasion.
Limit increase to £12,800
In August 2016, MBNA increased Mr Ms limit to £12,800. My comments in relation to the 
process used for the previous increase apply equally here. As with the previous increase, 
this was a significant amount, and merited a more detailed assessment than I can see that 
MBNA carried out. Accordingly, Ive again looked at information that could be seen from Mr 
Ms credit file, and his income and outgoings.
Looking first at the conduct of Mr Ms MBNA account since the last credit limit increase, Mr 
M transferred balances in and out to keep his interest costs down, although there were fees 
for doing the transfers. I can see that Mr M had not been reducing his credit card debt by this 
activity, which indicated that he may be unable to do so and was at risk of financial difficulty. 
But in May 2016, Mr M used about £7,500 of a new loan of £10,000 to reduce his debt with 
another credit card provider. While his overall unsecured debt was not reduced by this, it couldve indicated that Mr M was taking steps to reduce his borrowing. So, I dont think 
MBNA shouldve been unduly concerned by Mr Ms management of his existing debt.
Moving on to the question of affordability, looking at Mr Ms joint bank account statements, I 
could see details of income, repayments of debt, and living costs. Having taken account of 
this, my view is that a reasonable assessment wouldve shown that with the considerable 
increase in his limit to £12,800, Mr M wouldnt have enough disposable income to repay the 
available balance within a reasonable period. So, I think MBNA acted irresponsibly in 
increasing his limit here.
Mr M has commented that a third of his household income was made up of benefits, and that 
MBNA should have known these would decrease, making his borrowing ultimately 
unaffordable. Particularly given the information MBNA held regarding dependants, MBNA 
couldnt reasonably have been expected to foresee reductions in Mr Ms income because of 
changes to his benefit entitlement. So, my view is not changed by this.
In summary, my view is that MBNA didnt act irresponsibly in relation to Mr Ms application, 
or the first limit increase, but it did in relation to the second limit increase, and this 
contributed to Mr M getting into financial difficulty as he increased his use of his limit.
To put this right, I intend to require MBNA to refund all interest and charges in relation to 
borrowing in excess of £7,800 and credit these to Mr Ms account, and to remove all adverse 
information with credit reference agencies that relates to this.
As Mr M has had the use of the money he borrowed, I dont intend to require MBNA to write 
off the remaining balance.
My provisional decision
I intend to partially uphold this complaint, and to require MBNA Limited to refund all interest 
and charges in relation to borrowing on Mr Ms credit card in excess of £7,800, and to credit 
these to Mr Ms credit card account.
I intend to require MBNA Limited to remove all adverse information with credit reference 
agencies that relates to this borrowing.
As Mr Ms financial situation has been very worrying for him, I intend to require MBNA 
Limited to pay him £100 by way of compensation for this.
Mr M accepted my decision, but MBNA disagreed with my view on the second credit limit 
increase.  It said it thought its assessment was fair and reasonable and its lending decision 
responsible. I have set out my response to their comments below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA have said that my provisional decision implies that the practice of pro-active credit 
limit increases should not be allowed without asking the customer to complete an income 
and expenditure assessment, which would defeat the purpose of Auto-Credit Limit 
Increases. To clarify, that is not what I am saying. I acknowledge that MBNA is entitled to 
decide who it is willing to lend to and on what basis. My provisional decision wasnt intended 
to question that entitlement  which MBNA has as a business and lender. Nor did I intend to 
criticise MBNAs systems and processes in a wider sense. Thats not the role of this service. But I have to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a 
complaint  and that includes taking into account the relevant law and rules  amongst other 
things. So, while MBNA may have performed its usual checks and complied with its normal 
internal processes  thats not to say that doing so strictly and rigidly would always result in a 
fair outcome for a customer in their particular circumstances.
As I said in my provisional decision, the regulatory rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC ) do not provide for a set way to assess whether a 
customer can afford credit offered, and it is not this services role to do so either. The 
purpose of this decision is to determine whether, in Mr Ms individual circumstances, MBNA 
acted fairly and reasonably when assessing the affordability and responsibility of the lending 
it was providing.
I am confining my further comments to the credit limit increase that was given in August 
2016 as this is the part of my provisional decision that MBNA disagree with. 
MBNA had provided information about the assessments carried out when it increased Mr 
Ms credit limit and said that Mr M met its criteria. I also reviewed Mr Ms credit file, and as 
indicated by what I said in my provisional decision, this alone didnt disclose clear indicators 
of financial pressure at the relevant time. However, I dont agree that this of itself showed 
that Mr M could afford additional credit.       
MBNA relies on a number of points to say that its checks were proportionate. It points out 
that Mr M had never missed a payment, but as he had always made the minimum payment, I 
cant reasonably conclude that this showed that he could necessarily afford an increased 
commitment either. It highlights that Mr M had cleared his balance in August 2015, and not 
used the account until April 2016, when he did a balance transfer. I commented on Mr Ms 
account management in my provisional decision and noted that his balance transfer activity 
couldve indicated that he was moving his credit card debt around as he wasnt able to 
reduce it. When Mr M cleared his balance in August 2015, it was substantially through a 
balance transfer, and I would expect MBNA to be aware of this. So, this repayment cant 
fairly be said to show that he was able to make greater repayments, although it increased his 
available credit with MBNA. 
Lastly, MBNA points out that Mr M had utilised only 25% of his available credit limits at the 
time of his increase. While this was low, Mr Ms credit card limit utilisation had recently 
decreased but he had also taken out a new loan, so a view of his overall unsecured debt 
could be said to have been more informative.  I also take account of Mr Ms low income and 
the fact that the increase to £12,800 represented a tripling of his original limit.
In isolation, any of these factors alone may not have been sufficiently concerning for MBNA 
in deciding whether to lend further to Mr M. But when taken as a whole, I think what MBNA 
knew about his situation overall means it would have been proportionate and reasonable to 
have done further checks here. There were a number of factors present that, on the face of 
it, may not have looked to be an issue. But when these are considered together, in light of 
the overall borrowing Mr M had and the proportionately high increase being offered, I think 
MBNA should have thought twice before deciding to increase his limit on the basis it did 
here.
As I concluded in my provisional decision that further checks regarding affordability should 
have been done, I then needed to assess the likely outcome had further checks been carried 
out. MBNA have said that reviewing Mr Ms bank statements equates to a retrospective 
review of information that wasnt available to them, and that such an in-depth review wasnt 
required at the time. I shouldve made it clear that I didnt necessarily expect MBNA to 
review Mr Ms bank statements. There are different ways to carry out such checks, but I am only able to use the information available to me, and that information indicated that Mr M 
was not able to make increased repayments in a sustainable manner.
MBNA has also highlighted Mr Ms account usage after the increase as indicating that its 
decision was responsible. I note that Mr Ms balance was low in September 2017 but this 
followed a balance transfer, and when he extended his borrowing in December 2017 it was 
with another balance transfer, indicating that he was moving his balances around rather than 
making inroads into his debt. He didnt miss a payment with MBNA until October 2019, but 
his level of credit card debt in monetary and percentage terms had been increasing in the 
interim. Accordingly, I am not persuaded that these points indicate that the lending decision 
was responsible.
Im therefore satisfied that, had MBNA performed further checks here such as discussing Mr 
Ms situation with him and perhaps asking for further information, it wouldnt, as a reasonable 
lender, have decided to lend further on the basis it did. 
MBNA have correctly pointed out that its terms and conditions provide for Auto Credit Limit 
Increases, and that Mr M had the option to opt out of the increases and couldve contacted it 
to discuss any concerns. While this was the case, it didnt negate the need for MBNA to 
carry out the appropriate assessment.  
In summary, I am satisfied the lending decisions at the point of application, and the first 
credit limit increase were reasonable, but remain of the view that MBNA shouldve looked 
closer at Mr Ms circumstances when deciding to increase his limit to £12,800 and that 
additional information about Mr Ms circumstances wouldve indicated that he wouldnt be 
able to repay the increase in a sustainable manner.      
Putting things right
Mr M has had the benefit of the money he borrowed, so I am not asking MBNA to write this 
off. 
However, as his limit shouldnt have been increased from £7,800, to put this right, MBNA 
needs to refund all interest, fees and charges in relation to Mr Ms borrowing in excess of 
£7,800, and to credit this to Mr Ms credit card account. It should also remove all adverse 
information with credit reference agencies that relates to this borrowing.
As Mr Ms financial situation was affected by this issue, and has been very worrying for him, 
I am requiring MBNA to pay him £100 by way of compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in so far as it relates to the increase to Mr Ms credit limit from £7,800 
to £12,800.
I require MBNA Limited to refund all interest, fees and charges in relation to borrowing on Mr 
Ms credit card in excess of £7,800, and to credit these to Mr Ms credit card account.
I require MBNA Limited to remove all adverse information with credit reference agencies that 
relates to this borrowing.
I require MBNA Limited to pay £100 directly to Mr M as compensation for the worry caused 
to him by this issue.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman