DRN-2830864
The complaint
Mrs H complains about delays when she made a claim with British Gas Insurance Limited 
under an insurance policy covering faults with her boiler. To resolve her complaint, she 
wants British Gas to reimburse what shes paid for another contractor to carry out the repairs 
her boiler needed.
What happened
Mrs Hs boiler stopped working on 21 November 2020. She contacted British Gas to have 
them visit and fix it. But they said they wouldnt be able to visit until 16 December  25 days 
later. Mrs H told British Gas she wasnt happy about the wait. That led to them giving her an 
appointment for 26 November instead.
Mrs H contacted British gas again on 25 November, as the appointment wasnt showing on 
her online account. British Gas confirmed the appointment had been cancelled, and said 
they now couldnt visit until 11 December  20 days after shed first raised her claim. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs H arranged her own repairs. This wasnt straightforward, and it took 
the repairers she chose four visits to fix the boiler. The total cost was £1,873.80.
In response to Mrs Hs complaint, British Gas said the delays in visiting were due to a 
shortage of engineers. They noted theyd talked about reimbursing Mrs H for any electric 
heaters she bought while waiting for an engineer, but hadnt discussed reimbursing her for 
someone else doing the repair.
They said theyd pay £49.99 for a heater Mrs H had bought, and £103.20 for the cost of the 
first visit Mrs H had from her own repairers. But they wouldnt cover the rest of the repair bill. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. I made a provisional decision in April that explained my 
view. I gave Mrs H and British Gas some time to come back to me with any more points they 
wanted me to consider before I made a final decision. Ive received comments from both. 
Ive thought about these, and added to my earlier decision to show my thoughts on the 
points theyve raised. 
My provisional decision was that British Gas should have done more to respond to Mrs Hs 
claim in a reasonable amount of time. I found Mrs H had taken reasonable steps to try to 
deal with that. So to put things right, I found British Gas should reimburse her for the extra 
costs shed incurred. 
Now that everyones had chance to comment on my view, the complaint is ready for a final 
decision, which will be binding on British Gas if its accepted by Mrs H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision hasnt changed. So Im going to repeat the key points here in 
my final decision. But Ill add to what I wrote before, to respond to the points Mrs H and 
British Gas have raised after seeing my provisional decision. 
My starting point has been to compare Mrs Hs circumstances with the terms and conditions 
of her policy with British Gas. Those terms show what was agreed when the cover was 
offered and taken out, so they make a good starting point for deciding what a reasonable 
level of service looks like.
The terms dont give specific timescales for repairs to be carried out. They instead say theyll 
be done within a reasonable time. So Ive thought about what a reasonable amount of time 
would be here.
Mrs Hs boiler had stopped working. Shes said that meant her home had no heating or hot 
water. Those are things Id expect people to need and use every day, particularly in 
November. Alternatives can be used  boiling kettles for hot water, and using extra clothes 
and heaters for warmth. But theyre not as convenient or effective as a working boiler and 
heating system. So most people wouldnt want to be using alternatives for too long.
Without any other terms or sales information that say otherwise, I find that a fair reading of 
reasonable time is that it means a few days, up to maybe a week. Thats what I think most 
people would expect from insurance that covers something they need and use every day, 
and which its inconvenient to be without for a long time.
That leads me to the decision that it was unreasonable British Gas could only initially offer 
an appointment to Mrs H on 16 December, and then later 11 December. To fulfil the 
agreement they had with her, they should have done more to deal with their shortage of 
engineers, so that they could attend within a few days.
Ive again looked at the terms to see what these say would be done if British Gas couldnt 
attend a repair claim within a reasonable time. But there dont seem to be any terms that 
directly cover this. So Ive thought about what it would have been reasonable for British Gas 
to have done.
I can see British Gas paid for an electric heater for Mrs H to use while waiting for an 
engineer. Thats a temporary solution to the lack of heating, and could have been 
appropriate for a short delay. But I feel the long delay in Mrs Hs case made this sort of 
temporary solution unsuitable.
The issue here was a shortage of engineers. So a reasonable way to fix that would have 
been for British Gas to find some engineers who were available in a reasonable time, and 
use them to carry out the work instead. Mrs H did that, but the difference is that British Gas 
should have paid for the replacement engineer, rather than her.
In response to my provisional decision, British Gas have again talked about Mrs H not 
running the work past them before agreeing to it. But  as I said previously  I cant see that 
process in the policy terms, or being explained to her at the time. The terms dont cover the 
situation Mrs H was in  British Gas not being able to attend her repair within a reasonable 
time  so I can appreciate shes had to make her own decisions about how best to proceed.
Putting things right
So my decision is that British Gas should have done more to arrange for an engineer to look 
at and repair Mrs Hs boiler within a reasonable time. That would have meant she wouldnt have had to pay the full cost of the repairs  British Gas would. So I intend to say theyll 
need to reimburse most of that cost to her, to put things right.
I can see the terms say that  in any claim  Mrs H would have had to pay an excess of £60 
towards any repair work. In response to my provisional decision, Mrs H has said shed 
accept one excess payment might be needed, but is worried British Gas may apply more. 
British Gas have indicated in their response to my decision that they feel four excesses 
should apply.
The terms of the agreement between British Gas and Mrs H say that an excess is payable 
each time a repair or replacement takes place. But they go on to say that if the fault being 
fixed is related to one fixed in the previous 12 months, therell be no additional excess. 
Deciding whether a fault is related to an earlier fault or not is done by the British Gas 
engineer doing the repair or replacement. 
As the terms say its for an engineer to decide, I find its fair for British Gas to rely on that 
when deciding how many excess payments are needed. But in Mrs Hs case, British Gas 
dont have an engineer who looked at the fault before any repairs were done. Thats the 
result of their unreasonable service, so I find itd be unfair to penalise Mrs H as a result. 
So British Gas shouldnt default to saying the four visits Mrs H had to repair her boiler means 
four excesses apply. They need to consider the work that was done, and the replacements 
made, and decide whether that indicates there was more than one fault with the boiler. If 
they cant make a decision based on the records of the work done, then the decision should 
be in Mrs Hs favour. Otherwise, shed be unfairly penalised for British Gas not having an 
engineer available to look at the boiler before it was fixed by someone else. 
If Mrs H disagrees with British Gass decision about how many excess payments are 
needed, that could be a further complaint. It could come to us to be looked at, but that would 
be a new and separate complaint to the one Im deciding on here. 
The cost thats actually reimbursed to Mrs H after the excess is taken off should have simple 
interest added, at 8%. This will reflect that Mrs H hasnt had the use of that money from the 
time she paid it to the repairers, until its reimbursed to her by British Gas.
British Gas have confirmed theyve already paid £153.19 offered at an earlier stage to 
resolve the complaint. The 8% on that part of the reimbursement should run from the time it 
was incurred by Mrs H to the date British Gas made the payment to her. 
Ive thought about the heater cost, which British Gas agreed with Mrs H. Had they provided a 
more reasonable service  arranging a replacement engineer at their own expense  its 
possible British Gas wouldnt have offered to pay for a heater as well. But the fact is they did 
offer it, and Mrs H seems to have bought the heater off the back of that offer. Its unfair in my 
view that she should bear any cost from that, even though shes gained a heater due to 
British Gass poor service. So the money British Gas gave for the heater still forms part of a 
fair remedy to this complaint.
Finally, Ive thought about the emotional impact on Mrs H. She was upset by British Gas not 
providing the sort of service she was expecting, based on what she understood from her 
policys details. And that was added to by the poor handling of the appointments, particularly 
when one was cancelled and put back many days without telling her.
While this cant be undone, some compensation will at least acknowledge the impact on 
Mrs H. But picking an exact figure is a matter of opinion. Ive thought about the impact at the time, and how the reimbursement and interest Ive mentioned above will put right the 
financial loss Mrs H suffered. 
Taking all the circumstances of this case into account, including the points Mrs H has made 
in response to my provisional decision, Im still of the opinion £100  on top of the other parts 
of the remedy Ive described  does enough to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused 
by British Gas in this case.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited. To put things right, they 
should do the following, in addition to the steps theyve already taken:
Reimburse Mrs H for all the repair fees shes paid, less any excess that would have 
applied had the claim continued with British Gas.
Pay interest on the reimbursed funds at 8%, from the time any cost was paid by 
Mrs H to the date when British Gas pay the reimbursement.
Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman