DRN-3376714
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) took several months to upgrade her 
account in 2019 and she lost interest on her money as a result.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reason for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W says she asked for her Everyday Account (EA) to be changed to a 123 Account 
(123A) in April 2019, but Santander didnt open the 123A until late October 2019. So, Mrs W 
says she lost interest as a result.
Santander says it has no record of a request to open the 123A before October 2019. It says 
that as a gesture of goodwill it has paid Mrs W £100 which is over twice as much as the 
interest she would have gained if the 123A had been opened in April.
I was not present when Mrs W says she made her request to open the 123A, so I cant know 
what was said. I can only base my decision on the evidence available today.
Santander has no evidence to show Mrs W didnt request the 123A in April, and Mrs W has 
no evidence to show she did. Both parties are only able to provide their testimony.
But in this case what I can say is that if I had found in Mrs Ws favour, my powers would only 
allow me put Mrs W back in the position she would have been in if the 123A account had 
been opened in April 2019 and then take into account any distress or inconvenience caused 
by any delay.
Santander has provided evidence that the £100 it paid would have covered her interest 
losses and paid her over £50 for any distress and inconvenience.
In my view the £100 payment does put Mrs W back in the position she would have been in if 
the 123A had been opened in April 2019. And the balance of over £50 in addition is in line 
with what this service might have awarded for any distress or inconvenience.  
So, although I know Mrs W will be disappointed, I dont think Santander needs to do any 
more.
For completeness, I see that Mrs W has referred in her correspondence to a range of other 
things she is unhappy with, and I want to be clear that this decision is only about the opening 
of her 123A and if she has other complaints she can still take these up with Santander and 
come to this service if she is not satisfied with Santanders response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman