DRN-3678894
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGI) and 
their decision to decline the second claim she made on her pet insurance policy, after her 
first claim for the same condition had been accepted.
What happened
On 24 March 2022, Mrs S purchased a pet insurance policy, underwritten by CGI, for her 
puppy, who Ill refer to as Y. This insurance policy had a 14-day wait period, which ended 
on 7 April.
On 9 April, Y was taken to the vet (V) as he was falling over and struggling to get up after a 
few bouts of sickness over the previous days. Y was treated by V and a claim was submitted 
to CGI for the costs of this treatment. CGI accepted this claim, covering the cost of the 
treatment.
Unfortunately, a few weeks later, Y suffered a suspected fit. So, V treated Y for this, and 
they recommended a scan and further investigations, which Mrs S agreed to. Again, the 
costs of this treatment were submitted to CGI as a second claim. But on this occasion CGI 
declined the claim, as they felt Y was displaying symptoms within the 14-day wait period of 
the policy and so, they felt the condition was pre-existing. Mrs S was unhappy about this, so 
she raised a complaint. 
Mrs S was unhappy with CGIs decision to decline her second claim, after the first had been 
accepted and paid. Mrs S didnt think it was fair for CGI to do this, when the second claim 
was for follow on treatment for the same issue that was accepted as part of the first claim. 
So, Mrs S wanted CGI to accept the second claim and cover its full costs.
CGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the first claim had been 
paid in error, when it shouldnt have been. They thought, based on Vs notes, that Y had 
been displaying symptoms of his condition during the 14-day wait period of the policy and 
so, they thought theyd acted fairly when declining the second claim because of this. They 
didnt think their error in paying the first claim should impact this decision. So, they didnt 
think the second claim should be paid and they applied an endorsement excluding any 
further claims for follow on treatment relating to the same condition. Mrs S remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought CGIs decision to 
accept Mrs S first claim wouldve reassured her that a second claim for further treatment 
would also be covered. And, they didnt think it was fair for CGI to rely on a vet note stating Y 
had been sick once during the waiting period as enough to show Y was suffering related 
symptoms within the waiting period. So, our investigator thought CGI should pay Mrs S 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. And, they thought CGI should pay Mrs S 
£100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Mrs S accepted this recommendation. But CGI didnt. They maintained their position, and re-
emphasised expert opinion that suggested the vomiting they thought occurred during the 
wait period was a likely symptom of the resultant condition. So, they thought they had acted 
fairly when declining the second claim, accepting the first claim had been paid in error. And 
because of this, they didnt think the second claim, nor compensation, should be paid to Mrs 
S. As CGI didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think itd be useful for me to explain how Ive 
considered the complaint. Its important to note its not my role to re-underwrite the claim and 
so, I dont intend to do so. Instead, Ive considered CGIs decision to decline the claim and 
firstly, thought about whether I think they acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when doing so. And, if I think they have, Ive then considered whether I think it was fair 
of them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think it was.
Im aware both Mrs S and CGI have significantly different opinions on whether Ys condition 
first presented symptoms within the 14-day waiting period. Ive seen the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mrs S holds, which I think makes it reasonably clear that any claim 
made within or relating to the waiting period would be excluded and so, declined.
In this case, the waiting period ended on 7 April 2022. And CGI have pointed to Vs notes of 
the consultation dated 9 April, where it states that Mrs S confirmed Y had vomited once a 
few days ago. So, CGI believe a few days ago falls within the waiting period.
Ive also seen CGIs detailed reasoning stipulating why they, and their in-house vet, believe 
this vomiting was likely to be a symptom linked to the resultant symptoms and conditions Y 
has been treated for after. And having thought about this, I can understand why CGI believe 
the vomiting was a linked symptom. And I think its likely this vomiting did occur within the 
wait period. So, I do think CGI acted in line with the policy terms and conditions when 
deciding to decline the second claim.
But crucially, I must also be satisfied that CGI acted fairly when deciding to decline the 
second claim. And I dont think they were.
This is because they paid Mrs S first claim, when they were already in receipt of the vet 
notes detailing the consultation on 9 April 2021. In fact, the claim they paid covered the costs 
of this consultation. Had CGI acted fairly, I think they would have declined the first claim at 
this point and made Mrs S aware that any further treatment costs would be excluded due to 
the exclusion theyve later applied to the second claim.
But they didnt do this. And I think by accepting the first claim, they created an expectation 
for Mrs S that any further costs, including both investigation and treatment, would be 
covered. So, when Ys health worsened, and Mrs S vet suggested further tests and 
investigation work to see whether a full diagnosis could be provided, Mrs S took the decision 
to proceed under the impression this would be at no cost to herself. Considering the 
significant cost of this, I think its plausible that Mrs S may have taken a different course of action, had she been made reasonably aware that Ys treatment wouldnt be covered under 
the policy she had taken out.
So, while I accept CGIs decision to accept and pay the first claim may have been an internal 
mistake, I think this is a crucial aspect to this complaint. And I think by accepting this claim, it 
created an expectation to Mrs S that impacted her future judgement on further treatment. 
So, even though I accept CGIs rationale regarding why they believe Y presented symptoms 
within the waiting period, I dont think its fair for CGI to decline Mrs S second claim on this 
occasion. 
Putting things right
As I think CGI acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think CGI should do to put things 
right. Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs S back in the position she 
wouldve been in, had CGI acted fairly in the first instance.
As Ive explained, I think CGI set a precedent when they accepted the first claim, in full sight 
of Vs notes from the first consultation. So, I think if they had acted fairly, they wouldve 
continued to accept Mrs S second claim, as it was for a continuation of treatment following 
on from the first claim. And so, this is what I think they should do.
I also think CGI should compensate Mrs S for the inconvenience and upset she will have felt 
while trying to obtain payment for the second claim. I recognise this stress will have 
worsened an already stressful time due to the ill-health of Y. Our investigator recommended 
CGI pay Mrs £100 to recognise this upset and I think this recommendation is a fair one that 
falls in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been made. So, I think CGI 
should pay Mrs S an additional £100.
I also note that CGI have placed an endorsement on Mrs S policy to exclude any further 
treatment costs associated to the claims already submitted. As I understand CGIs rationale 
regarding the symptoms originally presenting within the wait period, I think CGI have acted 
fairly by placing this endorsement and I think they would be fair to rely on this endorsement 
for any future, additional claims not including the two already made.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint about Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd and I direct them to take the following action:
Accept and pay Mrs S second claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy she holds; and
Pay Mrs S £100 to recognise the upset shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman