DRN-3227639
The complaint
Mrs C complains that TSB Bank plc failed to refund around £5,000 which she lost as part of 
a third-party scam. 
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mrs C unwittingly authorised the payment  and 
it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money from the 
payee bank. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. I said I didnt intend 
upholding Mrs Cs complaint, and set out the following reasoning:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not intend to uphold it. I appreciate this will not be the outcome 
Mrs C was hoping for, who has waited patiently for a decision on her complaint 
against TSB, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
It is common ground that Mrs C authorised the scam payment of £5,001.02 on 
15 January 2019. She was duped by scammers into making an online transfer to a 
fraudulent company called MOW Capital after she found them online, thinking she 
was investing her money into a two-year fixed interest bond, where she was told that 
she would see returns on her investment of around 4%.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs C was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security credentials to request the payment. So, 
although she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs C is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
There are some instances where money lost through an authorised scam will be 
refunded by a bank under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. 
However, the CRM code applies only to payments made on or after 28 May 2019. So 
it wouldnt apply to the payment in question made from Mrs Cs account, as this was 
made in January 2019 before the code came into force (which does not apply 
retrospectively). 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I 
consider that TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
 
There is no question here that Mrs C has lost the money she invested. But the 
question I must consider here is the extent to which TSB can be considered liable for 
her loss. I also need to consider whether the bank did all that they ought to have 
done when Mrs C reported that she had been defrauded. In this particular case Im 
not persuaded that TSB should refund Mrs C the amount she lost.
Ive considered whether TSB should have done more to identify Mrs Cs £5,0001.02 
transaction as potentially being fraudulent and prevented her from making it, because 
there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look 
at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was 
particularly out of character for her.
To determine this, Ive looked at the statements for Mrs Cs account covering the 
period of January 2019 to February 2018 to get an idea of her general account usage 
at the time, including any history she had of making higher-value payments. TSB 
have gone back further than February 2018 (up to and including 2016), but I dont 
think its reasonable to look further than the space of a year from the scam to 
determine what constitutes usual account activity, so I havent considered any 
payments made beyond the space of 12 months. 
I can see that Mrs C had made payments of £3,000 and £2,000 from her account by 
cheque on 24 May 2018 and 16 August 2018 respectively. And while I appreciate the 
£5001.02 payment was higher than she had transferred in the months prior to the 
transaction, I dont think it was significantly higher (from her previous £3,000 
payment, for example) such that the amount ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious or indicating that she might have been at risk of falling for a scam. Ive 
also considered the fact that the payment was made by faster payment rather than 
cheque. But I dont consider this to be enough in itself to have meant that the 
payment Mrs C was making on 15 January 2019 ought to have flagged as 
suspicious. 
Mrs Cs account also had a balance of over £9,000 remaining after she made the 
payment to the scammers, so the fact that she still had such a large balance and the 
account hadnt been drained after the payment also means it wouldnt have appeared 
suspicious. So the only factors here that might have appeared unusual and given an 
indication that the payment was being made to a scammer was that it was a new 
payee, and that it was being made by Faster Payment. But in my judgment, I dont 
consider that these circumstances alone ought to have prompted TSB to question 
whether Mrs C might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam, because the 
payment wasnt so different or the circumstances so unusual that the bank ought to have contacted her to make enquiries about the payment before they processed it.
So, I dont think that TSB failed in their obligation when they didnt treat the 
£5,0001.02 payment as suspicious, and I think they acted reasonably when they 
processed the payment without further checks. 
Ive also considered whether TSB did everything it ought to have done when Mrs C 
reported the payment as fraudulent. The payment was made in January 2019, but it 
wasnt until March 2019 that Mrs C discovered she had been scammed and reported 
it to TSB. I can see that TSB got in contact with the beneficiary bank in an attempt to 
recover the money she lost, but unfortunately no funds remained in the scammers 
account. Im satisfied that TSB took appropriate action to try and recover Mrs Cs 
money, and Im not persuaded they could have done anything more in these 
circumstances given that the funds had already been withdrawn by the scammer.  
In summary, I think TSB acted reasonably by processing Mrs Cs payment, and I 
dont think they couldve done anything more to have prevented the loss of her 
money. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, who has been the 
victim of a cruel scam. And while I sympathise with the loss she has suffered, I dont 
intend to ask TSB to provide her with a refund.
I invited further comments from both parties in response to my provisional decision. Mrs C 
responded saying she only had a large balance in her account due to a previous return on 
an investment she had made. She said the £2,000 and £3,000 payments made from her 
account were other smaller investments, but that she still considers TSB ought to have 
stopped her from making the £5,000 payment. Mrs C also maintains that TSB did not act fact 
enough to try and recover her money. TSB did not provide a response to the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account what Mrs C has told us over the phone in response to my 
provisional findings. However, this does not change the conclusions reached in my 
provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mrs C may have had more money in her account than she usually would 
have done due to receiving a return on an investment. But the fact still remains that she had 
previously made large payments from her account (also made for investment purposes), 
which meant that the bank couldnt reasonably be expected to identify the £5,001.02 
payment as unusual in these circumstances. When considering Mrs Cs transaction history 
over the space of 12 months, this payment didnt represent a significant deviation from her 
usual account activity when looked at in the context of the other payments she had already 
made, such as the payment of £3,000 on 24 May 2018. So Im still not persuaded that TSB 
ought to have intervened in such circumstances.
I also understand that Mrs C thinks TSB should have acted more quickly to recover her 
money. But as I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think there was anything more they 
could have done because the money had already been removed from the beneficiary 
account by the time the fraud had been reported. I understand that this will not be the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, and Im sorry to 
disappoint her on this occasion. But in the circumstances, I do not consider TSB can fairly 
and reasonably be held responsible for the loss she has suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman