DRN-3059219
The complaint
Mr S complains that Arval UK Limited applied charges unfairly at the end of a hire 
agreement. 
What happened
Mr S took out the hire agreement for a new car in 2015. He agreed to hire the car for two 
years initially but the agreement was extended and the car was collected in March 2021 with 
over 60,000 miles on the clock. After the car was inspected by a third party, Arval sent Mr S 
an invoice for damage totalling £860, as follows:- 
1.Bonnet UFWT0073 Chip (Peppered) Refinish 135.00
2.NS Qtr Panel UFWT0146 Scratch to Primer Refinish 135.00
3.NSF Alloy Rim UFWT0092 Gouge More Than 50mm - Smart Repair 60.00
4.NSF Door UFWT0060 Scratch to Metal Refinish 135.00
5.NSR Door UFWT0168 Scratch to Metal Refinish 135.00
6.NSR Wheel UFWT0196 Gouge More Than 50mm - Smart Repair 60.00
7.OSF Wheel UFWT0093 Gouge More Than 50mm - Smart Repair 60.00
8.OSR Wheel UFWT0197 Gouge More Than 50mm - Smart Repair 60.00
9.Rear Bumper UFWT0157 Scratch to Primer Refinish 80.00
Mr S thinks the charges are unfair. In summary, he says Arval didnt follow its usual 
collection process - under the terms of the hire agreement the agent should have completed 
an initial report on the cars condition and given Mr S the chance to sign and agree the 
content - and a video on Arvals website also confirms an inspection would take place on 
collection giving Mr S the opportunity to discuss any charges before they were invoiced. 
Mr S says there was no walk around or sight of the inspection report on collection and he 
wasnt told about the charges within 48 hours or allowed five days to discuss things with 
Arval. He considers any damage present was slight and insignificant for a car of this age and 
he disputes the damage charged for was there on collection - he believes it could have 
happened afterwards. Hes unhappy that he wasnt told about changes in the return process 
or allowed to speak to the third party agent  and he wasnt given visual evidence of any 
damage. He thinks the charges are excessive and Arval used Covid as an excuse for not 
discussing the cars condition. He wants Arval to remove or reduce the charges significantly.
Arval says collection agents havent been asking customers to sign inspection reports since 
the pandemic started, it couldnt ask a third-party agent to contact Mr S and photographs of 
the damage were taken at the time of the inspection. Arval considers the damage present 
falls outside industry fair wear and tear standards and the charges were applied properly. It 
offered to reduce the charges by half, to £430, as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr S didnt think that was fair so he referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the evidence - including the third party inspection report and industry 
guidance from the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). She was 
satisfied the damage charged for is visible and outside fair wear and tear guidelines so it 
wasnt unfair for Arval to apply charges. She wasnt persuaded it was unreasonable for Arval 
to change its collection process due to Covid. And she didnt think this made any difference 
to the outcome - as the damage is present and Arval has already offered to reduce the 
charges by half. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld and she sent Mr S her 
view along with photographs from the inspection report. Mr S didnt agree. He says the 
photos are inconclusive - as theyre undated and the damage isnt clear. He wants to know 
why Arval didnt adhere to its usual procedure or explain about the new process. He thinks 
the reference to Covid is just an excuse as the car could easily have been inspected on 
collection. He feels the investigator is biased, she was swayed by the arbitrary offer to 
reduce the charges and she failed to hold Arval to account. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mr S has strong feelings about what happened when he returned this car at 
the end of a hire agreement. I have no doubt it was frustrating to receive an invoice for 
damage when - as far as hes concerned - the car was in an acceptable condition for its age 
and mileage. I understand he also feels its wrong that Arval didnt follow its usual return 
procedure and he considers the amount charged is excessive. 
I should make it clear at the outset that the role of this service is to resolve disputes between 
financial businesses and their customers, informally. Im not a regulator. I dont have the 
power to tell Arval how to operate on a day to day basis and its not my job to punish a 
financial business or any individual employee. My role here is to consider the evidence 
provided by both parties, without taking sides, and decide what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
In doing so, I must have regard to relevant law and industry guidance, among other things. 
Im satisfied that the BVRLA guidance is relevant here. The hire agreement that Mr S signed 
when he got the car makes him responsible for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried 
out) for damage which would constitute unfair wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. 
The BVRLA guidance says (broadly speaking) fair wear and tear occurs when normal use 
causes acceptable deterioration - taking into account the cars age and mileage - whereas 
damage results from a specific event or a series of events. Insofar as its relevant to the 
specific damage identified in the inspection report, the BVRLA guidance provides that:- 
- scratches in excess of 25mm are chargeable - and shorter scratches are also chargeable if 
they go through to the primer or bare metal is showing 
- chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted and a 
maximum of 4 chips on any panel, six per door edge and 8 on any forward facing panel
- scuffs to the rim of an alloy wheel in excess of 50mm are unacceptable and there should 
be no corrosion or rust.
Having considered the photographs in the inspection report carefully, Im minded to agree 
with our investigator that the damage set out is present. I think its more likely than not the 
photos were taken on inspection shortly after the car was returned. Im satisfied, from the images Ive seen, that the damage goes beyond what could reasonably be considered fair 
wear and tear. And, in light of the nature of the damage itself, Im not persuaded its likely 
this was caused between collection and invoicing. Im satisfied this means Mr S failed to 
return the car in line with his obligations under the hire agreement and the damage is 
chargeable. 
I can see the hire agreement says charges can still be applied if Arval decides not to carry 
out repairs before a car is sold. And I dont think its unreasonable for Arval to take the 
commercial decision not to incur the additional cost - and associated time and trouble  to 
undertake repairs before it disposed of the car. 
I appreciate Mr S considers any damage present would not have impacted significantly on 
the cars value but I think a number of different factors are likely to affect the price a car sells 
for on any given day at auction (or elsewhere). I accept damage is unlikely to be the only 
factor a prospective purchaser would take into account when deciding how much to pay for a 
car. Im satisfied however that the damage here probably would have impacted adversely on 
the re-sale price  in that its fair to assume a buyer would likely pay less for this car than 
another of the same model, age and mileage without such damage present. 
I think the charges applied are indicative of how much its likely to cost to put things right  
which doesnt seem an unreasonable way to estimate any associated loss in value. I realise 
Mr S feels the amount charged is excessive and the offer to reduce the charges was 
somewhat arbitrary. I can see he considers some of the damage could have been rectified 
elsewhere for less - but Ive seen no evidence of that. I think the charges applied seem to be 
in line with the damage matrix available on Arvals website and Im not persuaded theyre 
disproportionate or unreasonable. 
Ive considered what Mr S says about Arvals failure to follow its usual return process  as 
outlined in the hire agreement and in the website video. I accept Arval didnt follow its normal 
process exactly when Mr Ss car was collected. But, I cant fairly find it was wrong to make 
changes in response to the pandemic - many businesses have made similar alterations. 
Even if I were to accept this was unreasonable, Im not persuaded its likely to have made 
much difference to the outcome overall - in these particular circumstances. I say this 
because Im satisfied Mr S was made aware in the hire agreement that the car would be 
inspected on collection - and he could be charged for rectifying any damage present beyond 
fair wear and tear. Ive watched the online video Mr S refers to and I can see this also 
reminds customers of the BVRLA return standards and explains what needs to be done in 
order to avoid incurring charges. 
Im satisfied Mr S had the chance to check for damage - having regard to the relevant return 
standards - and fix it, if he wanted to, before the car was returned. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I consider there was damage present on collection which is chargeable. And Im 
not persuaded the charges are likely to have been reduced by more than they have already - 
even if Arvals usual process had been followed.  
I think Arvals offer to reduce the charges by half sounds fair. And Im not persuaded there 
are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to require Arval to do anything else. I realise this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S but hes not obliged to accept what 
Ive said - in which case it remains open to him to pursue this matter by any other means 
available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman