DRN-4113096
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s settlement 
offer for a claim under their home insurance was unfair.
Both Mr and Mrs K are named policyholders on their RSA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs K, Ill refer mainly to Mrs K from here onward.
Mrs K bought her policy through an insurance intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with RSA. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to RSA includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Mrs K had an RSA home insurance policy. In November 2021, she discovered damage to 
her property following a storm: broken slates on the kitchen roof, damage to barn doors, the 
loss of several trees, and damage to a dry stone wall. She was unable to contact RSA 
immediately and didnt report the claim until early January 2022. In the meantime, she 
arranged for emergency repairs to the kitchen roof and got quotes for repairs for the rest of 
the damage.
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage in January 2022. He concluded, in 
summary:
The barn doors were damaged but repairable. A section of timber needed to be 
replaced and the doors repainted.
The only obvious damage to the outbuilding roof was where a broken branch had 
dislodged two tiles.
Pointing on the roof was unaffected by the storm and the iron guttering looked like it 
had been missing for a while.
Some stones in the dry stone wall needed to be repaired.
Fallen trees werent covered by Mrs Ks insurance.
Based on the surveyors report, RSA offered Mrs K £542.60, less the £100 policy excess, to 
settle the claim. Mrs K didnt think this offer was fair and brought her complaint to this 
service. She thinks RSA should increase its offer to cover the full cost of repairs. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld in part. He agreed 
that RSA should cover the emergency repairs to the roof, as well as other repairs to the main 
roof and dry stone wall. However, he didnt think Mrs K had shown that the storm was 
responsible for damage to the barn doors. He felt that RSAs decision to decline this part of 
the claim was fair. He recommended that RSA increase its settlement offer to £838.32, less 
the policy excess.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mrs Ks cover only makes RSA liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. Section 3 of Mrs Ks policy booklet shows shes covered for loss or damage 
caused by a storm. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
So the first thing Ive got to consider is: were there storm conditions on or around the date of 
the claim? 
The policy booklet doesnt define storm, however Met Office information for the 2021/22 
storm season shows that storm Arwen hit the UK on 26/27 November 2021, bringing severe 
winds across the UK. Data from the weather station closest to Mrs Ks home shows high 
winds on 26 and 27 November, with gusts up to 53mph on 26 November. So Im satisfied 
that there were storm conditions the night Mrs K says her property was damaged. RSA 
hasnt disputed this point.
Second, I think its reasonable to think a storm might cause the sort of damage described by 
Mrs K and seen by RSAs surveyor. I think RSA would accept this general point. 
So the last question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? RSA 
says damage to the barn doors wasnt due the storm. So Ive reviewed the surveyors report 
and his photos, as well as the invoices/quotes and other evidence provided by Mrs K. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions and recommendations.
Barn doors
This is the largest part of Mrs Ks claim. Mrs K said the storm pushed in the doors, cracking 
the frame. Her joiner said it would take longer to repair the doors than replace them and 
quoted £1,692 (plus VAT) for the new doors.
RSAs surveyor didnt agree. He said the only storm-related damage to the door was a 
broken board and he thought this could be replaced. He concluded: a lot of the damage 
pointed out is pre-existing damage due to the age and condition of the door. There is 
evidence of previous repairs and rot to the timbers which the joiner is pointing out, but these 
haven't been damaged by the [storm].
As Ive said above, the key question is whether the storm was the main cause of damage 
and theres a clear dispute between the two experts. On balance, I think RSAs surveyor has 
offered a more comprehensive assessment of the damage and this appears to be supported 
by the photos Ive reviewed. So I dont think Mrs K has shown that the damage was primarily 
due to the storm, and I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to decline this part of her 
claim.
Emergency repairs to kitchen roof
Mrs K sent us evidence of the emergency repairs to the kitchen roof that were done before 
RSAs survey. The repairers invoice states: Slate repairs following storm Arwen to roof 
above kitchen. This cost £156 +VAT (£187.20). Im satisfied that these repairs are covered 
by Mrs Ks policy and RSA should refund this. 
Main roof
Mrs Ks estimate for repairs to her roof was £650 +VAT (£780). Her builder said there was 
damage to approximately 20 slates. However, RSAs surveyor found that a fallen branch 
had damaged just two. He didnt think there was storm damage to anywhere else on the 
roof.
Im also conscious that Mrs Ks estimate included reinstating verge pointing to one area 
where it was pulled away with the dislodged slates and refitting back in place one section of case iron guttering. On the other hand, RSAs surveyor said: no pointing has come out 
recently and the guttering looks like it has been missing for a while as there is damage to the 
ground where water has been pouring off the roof.
Ive no doubt that both the pointing and guttering were damaged and needed to be repaired, 
and I think it was natural for Mrs Ks builder to include this in his quote. However, I think 
RSAs surveyors evidence is, once again, more persuasive. I think its more likely the 
damage to pointing and guttering pre-existed the storm, so I dont think it was unreasonable 
for RSA to decline this part of the claim. I think RSAs estimate for repairs to the roof look 
reasonable.
Dry stone wall
RSA agreed to cover the cost of repairs to the wall. This was included in its settlement offer.
Fallen trees
Page 10 of Mrs Ks policy booklet explains that her trees are covered for damage caused by 
fire, theft, riot and vandalism. It doesnt mention damage to trees in a storm. In other words, 
shes only covered for the damage caused by the fallen trees and not the loss of the trees 
themselves. So Im satisfied that RSAs decision to decline this part of Mrs Ks claim was 
fair.
For the reasons above, I think RSA should increase its settlement offer to cover the 
emergency repairs to Mrs Ks kitchen roof. Otherwise, I think its offer was fair. This means I 
think it should increase its offer to £838.32. For the avoidance of doubt, RSA can deduct the 
£100 policy excess from this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and order Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to increase its settlement offer to £738.32.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman