DRN-4513686
Complaint
Miss Z has complained about a loan TSB Bank plc (TSB) provided to her. She says the 
loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided to her.
Background
TSB provided Miss Z with a loan for £4,000.00 in August 2017. The loan had an APR of 
23.6% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £6,549.00, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £2,549.00, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £109.15.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss Z and TSB had told us. And she thought that 
TSB hadnt done anything wrong or treated her unfairly. So she didnt uphold Miss Zs 
complaint. Miss Z disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Zs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Zs complaint. Ill 
explain why I thats the case in a little more detail.
TSB needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
TSB needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss Z 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
TSB provided Miss Z with a single loan for £4,000 in August 2017. The loan had an APR of 
23.6% and a 60-month term. This meant that the total amount was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of £109.15.
TSB says it agreed to Miss Zs application after it relied on her account activity to estimate 
her monthly income and expenditure. This information showed that Miss Z would be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. And TSB says, in these circumstances, it was 
reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss Z has said she was in financial difficulty. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss Z and TSB have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Zs first loan with TSB. The information provided, in the form of Miss Zs 
TSB account statements, suggests Miss Z was receiving a salary into her TSB account up 
until a few weeks before this application. Given just how close the application was to when 
Miss Z was receiving salary credits to the account, its difficult for me to reasonably conclude 
that TSB had suspicion to question whether Miss Z was working at the time.
Equally, TSB did carry out external checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told. It 
obtained credit scoring information which showed that Miss Zs score met its threshold at the 
time as well. In saying this, I do accept that the interest rate was higher than typical rates 
offered by mainstream lenders, although this clearly wasnt what would be termed as a high 
cost loan. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments appeared affordable and Miss Zs lack of any 
ongoing difficulties on her overdraft with TSB, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSB to 
proceed on the basis of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to 
be accurate. I accept Miss Zs actual circumstances may not been reflected in the 
information she may have provided and the other information TSB obtained. I know that   
Miss Z says she wasnt working at the time. But TSB could only make its decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. 
Miss Z had been working shortly before the loan application and the monthly payments for 
this loan could reasonably be considered to be low. So while it might have been prudent to 
do so, nonetheless given the particular circumstances I dont think proportionate checks 
extended into TSB asking her to provide further information in relation to this. In my view, 
there was no obvious reason to whether Miss Z was in employment at the time given what 
the recent account activity showed. 
Furthermore, even if I were to agree with our investigator and Miss Z and conclude further 
questions regarding Miss Zs employment were necessary here, Miss Z chose to apply for a 
loan at this time. As she did so and did not volunteer this information, its difficult for me to 
accept that she would have declared that she was not going to be employed for a significant 
period if she was asked further questions about her employment situation in this instance. I 
say this while particularly mindful that Miss Z started working within a couple of months after 
 albeit as she says on a temporary basis  and probably expected to at the time of her 
application.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that TSB did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Miss Z - it carried out reasonable checks even though Miss Z now argues that 
what it found out wasnt the whole story in relation to her finances. 
TSB reasonably relied on this information and given its lack of history with Miss Z, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for TSB to provide this loan notwithstanding the fact that Miss Z 
may have been temporarily out of work at this stage. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Zs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss Z. But I hope shell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman