DRN-2809301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds bank Plc incorrectly extended the term of their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C run a business. In 2012 they took out a mortgage with Lloyds to refinance an
existing business loan. They said the agreed term was due to end in April 2027. In 2017, the
original five-year fixed rate ended. Mr and Mrs C said at that point, they agreed a term of 9
years and 11 months (so a term end of 2027). In March 2017, Mr C signed a loan
product summary agreeing to the mortgage continuing on a variable rate. The term of the
mortgage isnt stated anywhere on that document.
In June 2019, Lloyds confirmed to Mr and Mrs C that the term of the mortgage was due to
end on 27 April 2027  and as they were overpaying the balance will reduce more quickly.
In July 2019, at different member of staff at Lloyds told Mr and Mrs C that the term of the
mortgage was due to end on 2 February 2032. At that point Lloyds said Mr and Mrs C could
either refinance over a shorter term or Mr and Mrs C could make overpayments.
Mr and Mrs C said that Lloyds had made a mistake. They said theyd agreed the mortgage
term would end in 2027, to tie-in with Mr Cs anticipated retirement age. Lloyds suggested
that Mr and Mrs C increase their monthly payments if they wanted the mortgage to be repaid
by the date they wanted.
Subject to any further submissions, my provisional decision was that I proposed to uphold 
the complaint. My reasons were (and which form part of this decision):
The loan agreement signed by Mr and Mrs C has a term of 237 months  that would be a
term end 2032). But section 2.4 of the agreement states facility maturity 30/04/27. This
supports that Mr and Mrs C had discussed the term ending in 2027. We also have an
internal wholesale markets confirmation form  fixed rate loan, completed by a different
Lloyds employee that states the maturity date of the loan as 30/04/2027.
There is no evidence from the time that an end date of 2032 was discussed or agreed 
other than 237 months being entered on the loan agreement. I note the previous loan 
that Mr and Mrs C had with Lloyds had an end date of 2027. Mr and Mrs C have been 
clear and consistent that all the discussions were about an end date of 2027  and that is 
supported by the evidence we have. Lloyds hasnt put forward any persuasive evidence 
that the term end of 2032 is correct.
Based on the evidence available to me, I consider it more likely than not, on balance, 
that Mr and Mrs C and Lloyds agreed that the term would end in 2027. But there has 
been a mistake and the term of 237 months was entered on the loan agreement  and 
the mortgage was set up and payments calculated over that term. That meant that Mr 
and Mrs C were paying less capital than they should have been paying and more 
interest. 
But I didnt think that Lloyds should make up the capital shortfall that had arisen because of 
its mistake for a number of reasons:
If Lloyds had set up the mortgage correctly, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage payments would
have been higher. So they have saved money by paying the lower mortgage payment
over a number of years.
I dont consider it is fair to disregard those savings in the redress here. Mr and Mrs C
were running a business. The savings they made might have been used in other ways,
such as being invested in the business, taken as profit or used towards the
overpayments they were making towards the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C say that they didnt receive statements for some time. That was due to a
mistake by the bank. But in view of the importance of the mortgage to their business, I
consider they ought to have raised that with the bank at the outset. If they had, the
mistake might have come to light sooner.
While I accept it was more likely than not a mistake by Lloyds, Mr and Mrs C did sign the
loan agreement, which had a clear discrepancy between the number of months the loan
was to run for and their understanding.
To put things right I said that Lloyds should:
Calculate how much interest Mr and Mrs C would have paid had they paid the correct
mortgage payment for a term end of 2027  and refund any additional interest they paid
up until date of settlement.
Work out the total capital shortfall that built up on the mortgage until 17 July 2019, when
Mr and Mrs C found out there was a problem. Allow Mr and Mrs C to repay the shortfall
over a mutually acceptable term, interest free.
Either set the mortgage to the correct term end of 2027, which would mean Mr and Mrs
Cs mortgage payment would go up  or if Mr and Mrs C wish, keep the extended term
and the lower monthly payment. If Lloyds hadnt incorrectly extended the term, Mr and
Mrs Cs mortgage payment would have been higher all along. Lloyds should let me know 
what the monthly payment would be for each option. It should bear in mind that the
interest adjustment and that the capital shortfall up until July 2019 being repaid
separately will reduce the amount Mr and Mrs C have to pay. Mr and Mrs C should tell
us which option they prefer.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £750 for any distress and inconvenience. Mr and Mrs C have been
caused a significant amount of distress and inconvenience by Lloyds mistake. They
were surprised to find the mortgage wasnt on track to repay their mortgage and retire
when they planned. Particularly as they believed they were making overpayments to
reduce the term even further. They will also have lost trust in Lloyds to both administer
their mortgage fairly and to give them accurate information. Mr and Mrs C have also had 
the inconvenience of trying to sort this matter out. Looking at what happened, I consider
£750 is fair in all the circumstances.
Lloyds responded to say, in summary:
The issue with the term of the loan only arose in 2017 when the fixed rate was broken.
It agreed to credit the account with the additional interest that Mr and Mrs C will pay over 
the longer term.There was a capital shortfall of £13,630.85 that had built up on the account from 2 May 
2017 until 31 July 2019.
Its loan system was unable to set up an interest free loan for Mr and Mrs C to repay the 
capital shortfall. Instead it offered to credit the loan with the full amount of interest due to 
be paid on the capital shortfall over the remaining term of the loan. The capital balance 
will be repaid over the remaining term.
As at 26 April 2021, if the term ended in 2032 the monthly repayment would be £1,115. If 
the term were to end in 2027 the monthly repayment would be £1,912.91.
As at 26 April 2021, If Mr and Mrs C made a lump sum payment of the capital shortfall of 
£13,630.85 if the term ended in 2032 the monthly repayment would be £995.85. If the 
term were to end in 2027 the monthly repayment would be £1,711.71. Lloyds noted that 
if Mr and Mrs C decided to make a lump sum payment, they would still have the benefit 
of the refund of the projected interest  it would not seek to reclaim this amount. 
Mr and Mrs C said they accepted Lloyds offer. But they pointed out they now had a 
decreasing term assurance policy that was due to end in 2027 that now didnt provide the 
right level of cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing everything, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional 
decision that the term was extended because of a mistake by Lloyds. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds proposal is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. It 
has some advantages for Mr and Mrs C as the interest is refunded upfront and Lloyds has 
said it will not claw it back whatever they decide to do. Mr and Mrs C have told us they are 
happy with the offer Lloyds has suggested. 
I note Mr and Mrs Cs point about the sale of the decreasing term assurance policy by 
Lloyds. They only added this to their claim after I had issued my provisional decision. On the 
face of it, if the policy was sold alongside the mortgage, with the term set to match the 
mortgage, then it would appear they have lost out as a result of the mistake with the 
mortgage and should receive redress for that.
But we havent had the chance to fully investigate the circumstances of the sale of the policy. 
So I cant make a decision that the policy was set up incorrectly because of a mistake by 
Lloyds. And any redress would depend on what Mr and Mrs C choose to do in regard to 
making up the capital shortfall. And this complaint is already almost two years old.
After careful consideration, I dont consider that it would be right to delay the resolution of 
this complaint to investigate the sale of the decreasing term assurance policy. Mr and Mrs C 
can make another complaint to Lloyds about the sale of the policy. The outcome of this 
complaint is likely to be relevant to that complaint, and Lloyds should take it into account in 
its consideration. Id hope that Lloyds could prioritise that complaint and look at it carefully. 
But I dont have enough information to reach a decision on a complaint about the sale of the 
decreasing term assurance policy  and I havent made any findings on the merits of it here. 
Putting things rightI consider that Lloyds should:
Calculate how much interest Mr and Mrs C would have paid had they paid the correct
mortgage payment to repay the mortgage in full by 2027  and credit the loan with any 
additional interest they paid up until date of settlement.
Credit the loan with the full amount of interest due to be paid on the capital shortfall of 
£13,630.85 over the remaining term of the loan. 
Pay Mr and Mrs C £750 directly to reflect the distress and inconvenience they have 
suffered as a result of finding out that this loan will take longer to repay than they had 
expected and planned for.
If Mr and Mrs C accept my decision Lloyds should write to Mr and Mrs C to confirm what 
it has done and to explain the options that are available to them to repay the loan.
My final decision
My fiinal decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should settle this complaint as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman