DRN-4051732
The complaint
Ms B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) declined her claim for 
compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase 
of a package holiday.
What happened
In September 2021 Ms B paid £5,660 for a package holiday to the Maldives for herself and 
her son. This included flights and ten days accommodation. She paid for almost all of that 
amount with two Virgin Money credit card payments. She went on the holiday in October 
2021.
In November of that year, Ms B complained to Virgin Money about various deficiencies in her 
hotel accommodation and other services in connection with the package holiday. She said 
the resort was still under construction, most of the restaurants and bars were still closed, the 
pool was closed, most of the promised activities were not available for her son, the air 
conditioning was broken, the tap water was not clean, and no effort had been made to 
fumigate the island to get rid of the mosquitos, nor were there any anti-mosquito products for 
sale on the island. She said she had been to the Maldives before and had not experienced 
mosquitos then. She asked for a refund, and also for some consequential losses.
Virgin Money did not agree to refund Ms B. In July 2022 it sent her its final response. It said 
that the hotel manager had offered to move her to another villa, which she had declined. 
Virgin Money said this had been a reasonable solution. It said that towards the end of her 
holiday, the package holiday organiser had arranged to move her to another island, which 
she had accepted, after which she had made no more complaints. The organiser had also 
paid her £500 as a gesture of good will. Virgin Money thought that this response had been 
enough to put things right. It added that mosquitos are to be expected in a tropical 
environment and are outside the control of the service provider.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Ms B brought this complaint to our service. She also 
complained about how long Virgin Money had taken to deal with her claim.
Our investigator upheld most of Ms Bs complaint. As there was undisputed evidence that 
there was still ongoing construction work at the resort (including photos, videos, the £500 
refund, and online reviews left at the time), she accepted that the holiday had not been as 
promised in the sales literature, which had advertised a luxury resort. She thought it was 
plausible that most of the restaurants had been closed. She did not uphold the other 
complaint points. She recommended that Virgin Money refund 20% of the price Ms B had 
paid for the holiday, minus £500, which came to £632. She also agreed that Virgin Money 
had taken too long to deal with Ms Bs claim, and recommended that it pay her £150, instead 
of the £50 it had offered her, making £780 altogether.
Ms B did not think that was enough compensation for a luxury holiday that had fallen far 
short. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as 
follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act makes Virgin Money responsible for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the organiser of Ms Bs package holiday. Regulations 15 
and 16 of the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 imply 
terms into a package travel contract which make the organiser liable for the holiday 
accommodation. It is not in dispute that section 75 and the regulations apply to Ms Bs 
purchase so as to make Virgin Money responsible for a breach of contract arising from the 
state of her accommodation on her holiday, even though her credit card payments were not 
made directly to the hotel.
Having reviewed all of the evidence in this case, I am minded to uphold this complaint in 
part. I agree with the investigator about which complaint points should be upheld, and which 
not (with one small exception: I dont think its good enough that anti-mosquito products were 
not available to buy anywhere on the original island). As well as the evidence the 
investigator referred to in her opinion, I have also found the resort managements response 
to an online review in which it confirmed that construction work had still been ongoing at the 
time of Ms Bs visit, and that some of the amenities were not yet available. And Virgin 
Moneys own case notes mention an email from the resort manager confirming that the 
resort was not fully operational.
I dont think Ms Bs decision not to move to a new villa should be held against her, since that 
would not have solved her problems. That villa was still in the same resort, so there would 
still have been a lack of a pool, bars, restaurants and so on. These problems were not 
solved until she was moved to a new island, but that was near the end of the holiday, so for 
the majority of the time she had to endure a significantly sub-standard holiday.
I dont think that all of this means there should be a full refund. The holiday was not 
cancelled; Ms B and her son were still in the Maldives, and there were still some facilities. 
The pool may have been closed, but they were on an island so they could have gone to the 
beach and swum in the sea; some of the restaurants and bars were still open; there was a 
spa; the air conditioning was repaired. Some alternative activities were arranged for her son.
But I do not think that the 20% refund the investigator recommended was enough to reflect 
how disappointing the experience must have been. This was an expensive resort, advertised 
as having a high standard of quality, with lots to do. Im satisfied that Ms Bs experience fell 
well short of that.
Having regard to everything, including Ms Bs transfer to another island late in the day, 
I currently think that a refund of 35%  minus the £500 already paid  would be fairer 
compensation. To that I will add the £150 which was recommended by the investigator for 
the delays in handling Ms Bs claim. That all comes to £1,631.
I do not think the costs described as consequential losses arose from the breach of contract 
or from any misrepresentations, and therefore I will not hold Virgin Money liable for them.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties I intend to order Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Virgin Money) to pay Ms B £1,631.Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B accepted my provisional decision. Clydesdale did not reply to it. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) to pay Ms B £1,631.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman