DRN-4366773
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way in which his request to change his address details was
handled by Investec Wealth & Investment Limited (Investec). He says the requirements it
placed on him were unnecessary and Investec didnt properly take into account the impact of
his disability.
He also complains about the disclosure of his personal information to members of staff
within Investec and to third parties outside of Investec.
In addition, Mr N complains about the decision taken by Investec to change his investment
manager and the way in which that decision was communicated to him.
What happened
Mr N held investment products with Investec on an execution only basis. His investment
manager was a family member.
Mr N was due to move address in January 2021, so he contacted Investec to inform it of his
change of address.
Mr N contacted Investec by telephone on 23 December 2020 but was unable to speak to his
investment manager. He asked to change his address details, but Investecs representative
was unsure whether they were able to complete that action because of Investecs security
requirements. The representative said they would leave a message with his investment
manager to contact him.
On 24 December 2020, the investment manager contacted Mr N by telephone on the
registered contact number and left a message asking him to call her back, so that they could
amend his address details.
There was then an exchange of emails between Mr N and his investment manager on 7
January 2021.
On 7 January 2021, Mr N emailed his investment manager and explained he was changing
his home address. He also asked why there hadnt been any meetings between himself and
his investment manager for several years.
His investment manager responded and asked if his phone details had changed because
she had left him several messages.
Mr N provided his new address and asked for a meeting with the investment manager to
discuss his funds.
His investment manager replied and asked if Mr N could provide his new telephone number
because she needed to confirm the email received was actually from Mr N.
Mr N emailed again and indicated he didnt have access to a phone. He also asked for some
morning meeting dates.
At that time Mr N also made an online enquiry asking who was responsible for equality and
diversity at Investec. He was provided with the contact details of a member of the Belonging,
Inclusion and Diversity (BID) team. Mr N also contacted the complaints department of
Investec with regards to his change of address request.
Mr Ns investment manager responded on 11 January 2021 and explained the procedure in
relation to verifying an account holder prior to changing their address details. She also said
Mr N held his products using an execution only service and this meant Investec didnt
provide him with advice, and that service didnt include regular meetings. The investment
manager said that if Mr N contacted her by telephone, she would be able to action the
change of address.
Mr N emailed on the same day and said that he had been trying to establish who dealt with
equality, diversity and disability at Investec and asked who he should contact at Investec in
relation to his disability. He explained that due to his disability he preferred to use email
communication or have face-to-face meetings. Mr N explained that telephone conversations
were very difficult because of his disability.
Mr N said he hadnt set this out in his initial emails because he hadnt wanted to disclose
confidential information about his disability to a third party.
On 12 January 2021, his investment manager emailed again and suggested that they had a
face-to face meeting at a mutual relatives house where she could verify Mr Ns change of
address instructions.
On the same day, his investment manager emailed Mr N and said that she had given a brief
outline of the enquiry he had raised, to a member of the BID team.
Mr N responded and said that meeting date wasnt suitable, but that he could wait until the
next meeting there.
On 13 January 2021 Mr N sent a written notification of change of address, by email, to his
investment manager and to a member of the BID team.
On 21 January 2021 a member of the BID team emailed Mr N and said they were sorry to
hear about the difficulty he had experienced when trying to communicate with Investec. The
team member said the telephone call -back system was a procedure in place to protect 
clients against fraud but they recognised it might not be suitable for the needs of all of its
clients.
It asked him to share any thoughts he had on an appropriate solution and confirmed it was in
the process of changing his address.
On 21 January, Mr N contacted his investment manager and said a family member had
indicated to him that his investment manager had discussed information about his
investments with that family member. Mr N said that this shouldnt have happened as his
information shouldnt have been disclosed without his consent.
On 22 January 2021, Investec contacted Mr N and informed him that his investment
manager had been changed. It also confirmed his change of address and explained that a
letter would be sent to his old and new address.
On the same day, the new investment manager contacted Mr N to confirm that his accounthad been reallocated and that the change of address had been updated on the Investec
system.
On 27 January 2021, Mr N sent the BID team an information video containing some general
information about his disability.
There were further emails between the BID team and Mr N about the issues arising for
people who shared his disability.
Mr N contacted Investec on 2 February 2021 and said he was surprised about the change of
investment manager, as he hadnt requested this and was happy with the original
arrangement with his existing investment manager. He expressed concern that his
correspondence which contained personal, sensitive, and confidential information, had been
passed onto others. Mr N said he had not been asked or consulted as to whether he was
happy for his information to be shared with third parties namely other individuals within
Investec.
On 8 February 2021 a member of the BID team at Investec contacted Mr N to inform him
that they would be reviewing their policies and procedures and were aiming to upload an
accessibility statement on the Investec website.
Investec responded to Mr Ns email on 10 February 2021 and said information sent to and
received on an Investec email, could be shared with other employees of Investec who
helped to service accounts - because they werent deemed to be third parties. It said
Investec would only share information with third parties where there was a lawful basis to do
so and this was, for example, where it had appointed a third party to provide valuations for
clients.
In October 2021 Mr N complained to Investec. He explained that he had been able to
change his address with other businesses by way of email or telephone, whereas Investec
had required him to attend in person.
Mr N said he had asked to attend Investecs office, but his request had been refused. He
said he didnt want to attend an informal setting, as had been suggested by his investment
manager.
Mr N said Investec had then informed him that his investment manager had changed, in a
way which gave him the impression that Investec was saying it was his fault.
Mr N said he also became aware that details of his disability had been shared with other
members of staff at Investec without his knowledge or consent.
Mr N said he also became aware that personal information (relating to his complaint) had
been disclosed to third parties (family members) outside of Investec by his investment
manager. He also said a family member (who wasnt an employee of Investec) had
conducted a meeting where his personal information had been discussed and negative
comments had been made about him. Mr N said when he later discovered this, he had been
very distressed by it.
Investec didnt uphold his complaint. It said that when its clients sent change of address
requests by email it asked for further confirmation in order to try and prevent fraud. Investec
said his investment manager had suggested a face-to-face meeting as Mr N had indicated to
her that a telephone call wasnt suitable because of his disability.
Investec said that disclosure of information about Mr Ns disability had only been made tocertain members of staff in order to provide a better service for Mr N. Information had been
disclosed to the member of staff with responsibility for ensuring Investec staff (in that office)
dealt with clients in line with the Treating Customers Fairly Principles and with three
members of its BID team. It said that its terms and conditions allowed it to collect personal
information in order for it to provide the best service.
It also noted that Mr N had contacted members of the BID team himself in January 2021.
Investec said that it had looked at its internal records and had found no evidence of the
disclosure of Mr Ns personal information to any other parties. It said the complaints process
involved speaking to staff members, but it hadnt spoken to any external third parties.
Investec said its communication regarding the change of investment manager wasnt
intended to make Mr N feel that it was his fault in anyway.
Mr N disagreed with Investec and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted
Mr N had requested a change to his address details by email, so Investec had required
further confirmation before amending Mr Ns details, and the investigator said she was 
satisfied this requirement was in place to prevent fraud.
The investigator said Investec had a duty to ensure the services it provided were tailored to
the needs of its customers and this was outlined in its Vulnerable Clients Policy. She felt that
Investec had made reasonable adjustments for Mr Ns disability by suggesting the change of
address confirmation take place by way of face-to-face meeting. The investigator noted that
the change was implemented using alternative security controls in January 2021.
The investigator was of the view that details of Mr Ns disability had been shared with
relevant staff members in order to ensure adjustments were made to the way his account
was managed.
The investigator also noted that Mr N had sent emails expressing dissatisfaction with his
investment manager. So, she was satisfied it was reasonable to change his investment
manager.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said the findings were disappointing
and not fair or reasonable.
In summary he said:
Investec had failed to follow its own procedures.
His original investment manager was a family member who had known him for all his
life, so it was insulting and condescending to have to prove who he was.
Given the family background he felt this request was insensitive and not conciliatory.
Investec was the only organisation who had requested this confirmation and so he
felt it lacked awareness in relation to disability and reasonable adjustments.
He offered to help Investec to improve their policies around diversity and inclusion,
 but it refused his offer.
He wanted to continue with his original investment manager who had managed his
 portfolio for thirty years. He said he found it very surprising for his investment manager to be changed abruptly and felt this was related to a previous meeting
 following a family lunch.
He was concerned that the investigator hadnt referred to the actions of another
family member (non-employee) which he considered was the most serious issue.
Mr N acknowledged that the family member wasnt an employee of Investec but said
that our investigator shouldve investigated their actions.
He described the actions of that family member and the resulting impact on other
family members and himself. Mr N also included letters he had sent to family
members in relation to these actions. He was concerned that our service wasnt
taking the actions of this family member seriously. Mr N said that family members
behavior was of concern.
He said there had been a lack of openness, transparency, and accountability from
our service.
He asked who regulated the financial sector and whether his concerns had been
raised with auditors.
He expressed a concern that he wasnt included in meetings taking place in respect
of a family members portfolio despite providing the relevant documentation.
He reiterated that a family member (non-employee) had breached confidentiality and
security and he asked about the process for dealing with this.
He questioned Investecs various internal and external policies and said that he
hadnt been treated fairly, honestly and with openness.
He said the Ombudsman Service appeared too close to the financial sector and said 
it was meant to regulate this sector.
He said a meeting conducted by the previously mentioned family member (non-
employee) without his knowledge and with other family members present, was
damaging to him and he was not treated fairly.
He referred to Investecs policy around confidentiality of information which said that it
would ensure we respect and protect all personal information. Employees must not
divulge information about Investec and its clients. Employees may not use
information for either personal or familial gain. He said this hadnt been complied 
with in his case.
Our investigator explained that as the family member Mr N had referred to, wasnt an
employee of Investec and there wasnt a financial relationship between them, as required by
the rules which govern which complaints we can handle, we could not look into that aspect
of his complaint.
She also referred to a separate issue raised by Mr N in respect of another family members
portfolio and explained that if he wished to take this further, he would need to raise a
separate complaint.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision where I concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. An extract from that decision is reproduced later in this decision. 
Both parties were then given an opportunity to respond with any further representations they 
wished to make. 
Investec acknowledged and accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr N responded and in summary said:
He had presented a lot of evidence which had been deflected, rejected or ignored
Our mind was made up from the start 
Our service was meant to regulate banks and financial organisations but he said 
those institutes had gained in strength and consolidated their power and influence 
since the financial crash.
He felt our service wasnt impartial and was, in effect, a tick box exercise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr N is disappointed with the conclusions I have reached in my provisional 
decision. I have carefully considered the points he has raised however, as I have outlined in 
my provisional decision, some of the matters he has referred to do not fall within my remit, 
namely the issues he has raised in respect of a third party who isnt an employee of 
Investec.
The matters that do fall within my remit I have considered on the basis of what I think is more 
likely than not to have happened. I have also taken into account any obligations and 
responsibilities imposed on Investec by the Equality Act and by data protection legislation 
and any contractual obligations.   
 
I remain of the view set out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons set out there, 
an extract of which is reproduced below and forms part of this decision.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has made a number of detailed points which I have carefully considered, however I
have addressed the issues I consider to be the crux of his complaint
To recap, Mr N was moving home and needed to change his address details. He explains
that he was able to do this with other organisations either by email, or by telephone. Mr N
says that his preferred method of communication was email because of his disability.
However, he says Investec asked for the change of address notification to be carried out in 
person and he feels this was unnecessary.Mr N has complained that Investec has failed to make reasonable adjustments for him. In
other words, has failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act
2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that
its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and
reasonable. If Mr N wants a decision that Investec has breached the Equality Act 2010, then
hed need to go to Court.
The terms and conditions of his account say:
36.7 Where you notify us of changes in respect of addresses, bank details or in exceptional
circumstances where requests for third party payments are made, we require these
notifications or requests to be in writing and we reserve the right to request additional
supporting documentation or confirmation prior to us updating your details and/or acting on
such requests.
Investec has explained that it doesnt accept a notification of change of address by email
because of the risk of fraud associated with that type of communication. I consider that to be
a reasonable explanation for Investec requiring something further, so as to ensure the email
request it received was a legitimate one, sent by the account holder.
Mr Ns investment manager initially asked Mr N to contact her by telephone so that she
could verify that he, rather than a third party, had sent the email. I note the investment
manager mentioned that she hadnt received emails from him with that particular email
address for some time.
Mr N has explained that he considered this to be insulting given their family relationship.
However, I think the purpose of the request was to ensure that it wasnt a third party
impersonating Mr N on the email as sadly, these types of fraud do occur. So, I think that the
investment manager was seeking to check it was actually Mr N making the change of
address request. And given the breakdown of the personal relationship with his investment
manager that Mr N has described, I think his manager would also have had reason to be 
cautious due to the passage of time between contact.
I dont think the investment managers request was, in the first instance, an unreasonable
one and I note that Mr N had called the Investec office on 23 December 2020 in order to
change his address but had been unable to do so. I dont think it would be reasonable to
expect Investec to treat Mr N differently because of the family relationship. I am also
satisfied that this request was in line with Investecs internal security procedures for fraud
prevention.
However, when Mr N raised the difficulty posed by a telephone call, in his response, I think
the onus was then on Investec to find an alternative way of confirming the veracity of this
change of address request. And I can see the investment manager responded the next day
suggesting a face-to face meeting at an informal location, which was the home of a mutual
relative.
I think the investment managers rationale for suggesting this location was that it was a
practical solution, because the manager understood that Mr N was due to be there in any
event, so he wouldnt have to undertake an unnecessary journey.
However, Mr N has explained he wasnt happy with an informal meeting location because of
a previous meeting that had occurred in that type of setting. So, while this may well have
been a practical solution in the past, given the breakdown in the relationship Mr N hasdescribed, it was no longer a viable option for him.
Mr N has also said his request for a meeting at the Investec office was denied. However,
looking at the email correspondence, I think Mr Ns request to his investment manager for a
meeting at the office was framed in terms of taking place with the objective of discussing his
funds, rather than for the purpose of verifying his change of address request. So, I think the 
reason that meeting wasnt facilitated was because Mr N had an execution only service and
that didnt include regular meetings as advice wasnt provided.
Mr N responded to his investment managers suggestion and indicated that the date wasnt
suitable for him but that he could wait until the next meeting (for their mutual relative) took
place. Some eight days later a member of the BID team emailed Mr N to apologise for the
difficulty he had experienced. She also confirmed that his change of address was in
progress.
I do appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mr N to have waited sometime to
receive confirmation of what was a fairly simple request. However, I think the reason for this
delay was that Investec was trying to work out the best way it could balance the security
requirements it had in place to protect customers financial information, and provide
reasonable adjustments, so that Mr N was able to give his instructions and those instructions
could then be acted upon promptly.
So, overall, I dont consider that Investec failed to act promptly or that the timeframe was
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Investec had to ensure that Mr N was given the same opportunity to make required changes
to his account as someone without his disability. However, that did not mean that it had to
change its entire process. Investec had to find a reasonable solution which enabled Mr N to
give his instructions.
Overall, I consider that Investec made reasonable adjustments by departing from its
procedure of confirming the emailed request by way of a telephone call and offering a face-
to face meeting. And then subsequently, when Mr N indicated that meeting wasnt suitable
for him, it confirmed the change using an alternative procedure. So, I dont think it acted
incorrectly or unfairly here.
Mr N has also said that Investec hasnt treated him honestly and with openness and it hasnt
followed its own procedures and policies.
I consider that once Mr N had indicated to Investec that the telephone wasnt an appropriate
method of communication because of his disability, it engaged with him to try and find an
alternative way of achieving his request, and it informed him when his address had been
changed. So, I dont think the way Investec handled his request lacked honesty, or that it
wasnt open with him about the process. I am also satisfied that it acted in line with its
Vulnerable Clients Policy.
Mr N has also complained that Investec hasnt taken forward the suggestions he has made
and amended its policies to ensure reasonable adjustments are available for clients sharing
his disability.
I have seen the emails between Mr N and the BID team, and it appears from the content of
those emails that Investec did engage with Mr N and ask for his suggestions. I am satisfied
therefore on balance that Investec did consider and respond to the issues raised by Mr N.
Having engaged with Mr N and considered his suggestions, then ultimately the content of its
policies, is a matter for Investec. In addition, it may well wish to retain some flexibility withinits policies to enable it to offer different options to consumers.
Alleged breach of data to Investec staff
Mr N has complained that his personal information was shared with Investec employees
without his consent. He says this became apparent from the email he received on 22
January 2021.
Investec says that the terms and conditions of the investment management and dealing
service it provided allowed it to collect and use Mr Ns personal information.
I should say at the outset that I dont have the remit to determine whether there has been a
breach of data protection law here, that is a matter for a court or the Information
Commissioners Office. However, I will consider whether or not Investec has handled Mr Ns
data reasonably, taking into account data protection legislation.
I consider that Investec had to process Mr Ns personal data in a way which was lawful, fair,
and transparent in order to comply with data protection legislation.
A contractual agreement between the parties can constitute a lawful basis for processing
data. And I can see that there was a contract between Mr N and Investec, who provided an
execution service for his investments.
Section 21 of the agreement allowed Investec to collect data from Mr N in several ways
including through contact between the parties, which I am satisfied on balance would include
emails. That section also outlined some of the ways in which the information could be used
which included to comply with applicable laws, regulations and/or codes of practice and to
provide products and/or services requested by you; to manage your accounts and to
manage any contractual relationship with you.
In order to provide its service to Mr N I am satisfied it was necessary for Investec to share
his information with those involved in ensuring reasonable adjustments were made, so that
Mr N could access that service. As I have said earlier in this decision, I think Investec had to
ensure it complied with its responsibilities under the Equality Act 2010. So, I consider it more
likely than not that there was a lawful basis for processing Mr Ns personal data.
I also consider Investec was transparent in respect of how it had used Mr Ns data because
it told him which individuals had been party to that information.
While I agree that the terms and conditions allowed his personal information to be shared for
certain purposes, I think Investec had to think carefully about how it handled this information
and who it was shared with. Not least, because I consider the information was more likely
than not to constitute special category data as it was information relating to Mr Ns disability.
The UK GDPR defines health data in Article 4(15):
data concerning health means personal data related to the physical or mental health of a
natural person, including the provision of health care services, which reveal information
about his or her health status.
And I think the incorrect handling of that information was likely to be distressing for Mr N.
In its terms and conditions Investec referred to sensitive personal data and said:
Sensitive personal data (we will only collect this with your explicit consent or where theprocessing is specifically authorised by a regulatory body or required by law).
In order to process special category data Investec would need to meet one of several
specified conditions. One of those conditions is where the processing is necessary to comply
with a legal obligation.
I am satisfied that sharing information in order to consider which reasonable adjustments
could be made, is more likely than not to fall within that condition because it relates to
complying with legal duties under the Equalities Act 2010 and is also in accordance with
what is set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement.
It appears that Mr Ns information was shared with three members of the BID team and the
director responsible for ensuring that clients, such as Mr N, were treated in accordance with
treating customers fairly principles, in addition to his new investment manager.
As I have said I think Investec was trying to make reasonable adjustments to facilitate Mr Ns
change of address request whilst also maintaining security around his financial information.
I am satisfied on balance that it was necessary and proportionate to share his personal
information with three members of staff who had some specialist knowledge of this area
because they were in the BID team, and the person at Investec who was responsible for
ensuring its staff treated Mr N fairly. I also consider that his new investment manager
wouldve needed to have been made aware to prevent any similar issues arising in the future
and ensuring that Investec treated Mr N fairly and in accordance with the Equality Act 2010.
Even if I am wrong about that, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances to require Investec to take further action or pay compensation, because I
think it acted with the legitimate intention of trying to ensure that it treated Mr N fairly by
making reasonable adjustments where it could. And I also think it was seeking to respond to
his query about the reasonable adjustments in place for his disability.
I can also see from the emails sent between Mr N and Investec, that Mr N emailed the
complaints department of Investec on 7 January 2021 in relation to his query to change his
address and the way it was being handled. So, given a complaint had been raised, even if
informally as stated by Mr N, the individual with overall responsibility for clients within that
area, would need to have been aware of what had happened, with a view to trying to resolve
the issue raised.
I also note that Mr N had contacted one of the BID team members himself to ask what
measures they had in place for with clients with his disability. He didnt expressly state that
he himself had this disability. But given he had raised this and then sent his change of
address request to the member of the BID team on 13 January, it seems that by linking
those two pieces of information they would have been made aware in any event.
Overall, I consider Mr Ns personal information was likely shared in a proportionate way
within Investec amongst employees who all had a role in ensuring clients of Investec, and in
this instance Mr N, were being treated fairly taking into account their particular
circumstances.
Communication of change of investment manager
Investec emailed Mr N to inform him that it was changing his investment manager. Mr N was
unhappy with the way in which this was explained and says he was happy with his existing
arrangement. He says the letter gave the impression that Investec were saying he was atfault.
I have carefully considered the contents of that email of 22 January 2021. It said:
Thank you for your recent email correspondence which has been shared with me by one of
the Investment management teams in our XXX office where I see that you have a portfolio
account with an Execution only service level. It is possibly worth sharing that with this
service, you as the client have entered into a two way agreement in which you use the firm
to execute transactions. No advice, recommendations nor opinions will be provided.
This service does not involve investment management and the firm has no ongoing
responsibility for the composition of your portfolio.
On occasion we review the caseload of our Investment managers and we are writing to
advise that going forwards you should contact xxxx xxxxx whose full contact details are set
out below, for any matters relating to your account.
Please be assured that we are committed to meeting your needs by whatever means of
communication you prefer (wherever possible) and you can be assured that xxx has been
appraised of the contents of your recent correspondence xxxx will be in touch shortly (by
email).
I dont think there was anything within that letter to suggest Investec was saying Mr N had
done something wrong and that was the reason for the change of investment manager.
I consider Investec was reiterating the nature of the service that it provided to Mr N and
explaining that giving advice was not part of that service.
I also think by that stage there had been a breakdown in relations between the parties and I
note that Mr N was asserting that his investment manager had disclosed his personal
financial information to third parties. So, I think given the concerns raised by Mr N, Investec
thought it was sensible to provide him with a new investment manager.
Overall, in those circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable to change the investment
manager so that Investec could continue to provide its service to Mr N.
Alleged breach of data to third parties outside of Investec
Mr N has complained that his original investment manager, who is a relative, discussed his
personal financial details and his disability with other family members, without his consent, in
breach of his data protection rights.
Investec has explained that as part of the complaints process it spoke to employees, but it
didnt speak to persons outside of its business. Investec has a remit as an employer to ask
its employees about their actions and I am satisfied on balance that it did so here.
Investec has also said that it looked at correspondence sent in a professional capacity but
not the personal correspondence referred to by Mr N.
I am satisfied on balance that Investec has reviewed the professional correspondence sent
to and by its employees. I also take into account that Investec has investigated this
allegation by looking at its internal records and speaking to staff members and it was unableto find any evidence of unauthorised disclosures of personal information.
I also note that Mr N has made it clear that he didnt want his, and his original investment
managers mutual relative involved in the complaint. So, Investec wouldnt have been able to
talk to that individual and ask whether they were aware of any personal information being
discussed, in any event.
So, I think it is difficult to see how it can investigate this further where the alleged breach is
alleged to have taken place in a personal setting with individuals who arent employees.
Mr N has also said in his complaint that I was not invited to this meeting or consulted about
it. I was only made aware of the meeting recently. So, I note that he doesnt have any first-
hand knowledge of what was discussed.
So, Im not going to ask Investec to do anything further on this point and I dont consider on
balance that it has acted incorrectly.
I should also outline here that our service considers individual complaints against financial
businesses, but it doesnt have a regulatory role. The regulator is the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA).
Actions of a third-party family member (non-employee)
Mr N has expressed in clear terms that he is very concerned about the actions of a family
member who is not employed by Investec. He says this individual conducted a meeting
without his knowledge where his personal information was discussed. Mr N has also said
that he is worried that neither Investec nor our service has investigated the issues he has
raised about this individual.
I appreciate the strength of feeling on this matter however, we have a legal framework which
sets out what and who we can investigate and that doesnt include the actions of an
individual who has no employee or contractual relationship with a financial business. And
similarly, Investec has a remit to look at the actions of its employees based on its status as
an employer but no remit to investigate an entirely separate third party individual acting on
their own account.
So, while I note the concern and upset that Mr N has expressed, I dont think Investec has
acted incorrectly and I am not intending to ask it to do anything further.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Investec Wealth &
Investment Limited.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Investec Wealth & 
Investment Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Julia ChittendenOmbudsman