DRN-4189441
The complaint
Ms H complains Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) only agreed part of 
her application for a balance transfer putting her in a difficult financial position.
What happened
Ms H says she applied to Virgin for a balance transfer (BT) promotional offer to consolidate 
two existing credit card accounts with other lenders. Ms H says Virgin without advising her, 
approved a lower credit limit and it only repaid a proportion of the outstanding debt, 
approximately £4,000, to one of the credit card accounts (Bank A). Ms H says this has 
resulted in her having three debts and not achieving what she set out to do. Ms H says 
Virgin then took far too long to put right its mistake and recall the BT from Bank A and it has 
affected her ability to obtain credit elsewhere and caused financial difficulties with Bank A. 
Ms H wants Virgin to put her back to the position she was in prior to the BT and for it to ask 
Bank A to remove the adverse information on her credit file and refund the extra interest and 
charges she has had to pay. Ms H says this matter has had additional impact on her existing 
mental well being issues. 
Virgin have accepted it could have acted sooner in dealing with Ms Hs request to recall the 
BT from Bank A and offered her £100 by way of apology and has refunded the BT fee to her 
credit card account with them. Virgin didnt feel it had made any errors when it only approved 
a smaller BT credit limit than Ms H had requested, and it had sent the BT to the first named 
bank as instructed on her application form. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and partially upheld the complaint. 
The investigator felt while it was entitled to offer Ms H a lower credit limit than requested, 
Virgin should have notified C of this. The investigator felt Virgin should increase its offer of 
compensation by a further £150 making a total of £225. The investigator felt while Ms H had 
paid additional interest as a result, it was likely Ms H would have turned down the lower 
credit facility offered by Virgin, meaning her other credit card interest with Bank A would 
have increased in any event. 
Ms H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can see Ms H has gone through a difficult time financially and I was sorry to learn of the 
impact this has had on her wellbeing. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin were at fault when it only provided part 
of the balance transfer limit Ms H requested, before it carried out the transaction to partly 
repay her borrowing with another provider. 
The first thing to say here is both Virgin and Ms H have provided this service with 
comprehensive information regarding this complaint and while that has proved helpful, I 
wont be commenting on every piece of information provided as I dont feel it is necessary in 
order to come to a full and impartial decision here  thats not to say I havent considered 
these  I have. 
Ms Hs complaints centres around the fact having applied to Virgin for a credit limit to enable 
her to consolidate two existing credit card accounts with other providers by way of a BT, 
Virgin only agreed a lower limit of £4,300 and without further communication to her, it then 
paid this sum off one of her credit card providers (Bank A). Miss H says when she 
complained, Virgin agreed to reverse the balance transfer in July 2022, but it took several 
weeks to achieve this. Ms H says because she was put in this position, it meant she couldnt 
afford to make her monthly payments to Bank A and it has ultimately affected her credit file. 
I understand the points Ms H makes here but following further discussions with Virgin I have 
established some further key points. 
Firstly, I have been provided with an extract from the credit card application Ms H completed 
and in that application it states under things you need to know  the following :
We will allocate up to 95% of your initial credit limit (excluding fees ) even if it does not pay 
your requested money/ balance transfer in full. Well tell you how much we are able to 
transfer by email.
So here, while Ms H may not agree, Virgin had pre- advised her that it would go ahead and 
pay what it could to the other lending provider even if the full limit she had requested wasnt 
approved. In this instance it selected the first named bank  Bank A on the schedule she had 
provided on the application, and I cant say it was unreasonable for it to have done so. 
Like the investigator I do agree it took an unreasonable length of time for Virgin to have 
recalled the BT back from Bank A but it has accepted that and reversed the BT fee and 
additionally offered Ms H  a further £100 for this. I am satisfied that is a reasonable and fair 
offer here. 
Having said that, looking at the information provided by Virgin it has come to light that it 
appears in early July 2022, when Ms H appealed its decision not to approve the full credit 
limit she requested, it was made known to her that it may be able to do so if she was to close 
an existing dormant credit card account she held with them. From the screen shots provided 
by Virgin to this service, it appears the request to continue with the BT reversal was 
instructed to still go ahead. 
Given Ms Hs current financial position and having discussed this matter with Virgin it has 
been agreed, if Ms H was to agree to close her existing dormant credit card account with 
them, it would now agree to provide the credit limit she requested and at the original 
promotional rate applied for over the original period of time. 
Given the circumstances here I feel that is a reasonable offer from Virgin, taking into account 
it was at liberty to have initially only repaid part of Ms Hs other credit card debt as explained 
earlier. I propose Virgin pay the £100 offer of compensation if it hasnt already and for it to arrange 
with Ms H to provide the increased facility on the terms above - if Ms H still wishes to take up 
this facility on that basis. Its fair to say this may help Ms H reduce her current interest costs 
but thats something she would need to take up with Virgin directly. 
Given Virgin havent made any mistakes regarding the actions it took over the balance 
transfer request, apart from the delay in obtaining its return for which it has offered 
reasonable compensation, I cant tell it to ask Bank A to remove any adverse information on 
her credit file here. 
While Ms H will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here. 
Both Ms H and Virgin responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Ms H and Virgin until 3 July 2023 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Virgin have accepted my provisional decision, but Ms H has made some additional points for 
me to consider. 
Ms H has reiterated the point that Virgin never informed her it was not going to approve the 
limit she had requested and that it simply repaid part of one of her other nominated credit 
card accounts without referral to her first. Ms H says if she had been told in advance of the 
lower limit she would have declined this. 
Ms H says in addition, given the time it took Virgin to recall the balance transfer from Bank A, 
her interest rate had increased on that credit card account resulting in her not being able to 
meet her payments and affecting her credit file. 
I understand the points Ms H has made here but these have been covered in my initial 
provisional decision. I say this because as I mentioned before, under the terms of the credit 
card application she completed it states We will allocate up to 95% of your initial credit limit 
(excluding fees ) even if it does not pay your requested money/ balance transfer in full. Well 
tell you how much we are able to transfer by email. As I mentioned before this is telling Ms 
H Virgin would pay off up to 95% of the credit card limit agreed without referral even if its not 
sufficient to pay the other debt in full.  
Its also worth repeating that Ms H had listed Bank A as the first named bank in her 
application for Virgins credit card and Im satisfied it wasnt unreasonable for Virgin to send 
the balance transfer to this nominated credit card account on that basis. 
In my provisional decision I agreed that Virgin having been told by Ms H to recall the balance 
transfer, it took longer than perhaps it should have to do so, but it did apologise for that and 
offered Ms H £100 for the delay and additionally refunded the balance transfer fee, even 
though it wasnt at fault for initiating the transfer. So, Im satisfied here this was a fair offer 
from Virgin and I cant hold it responsible for any actions Bank A may have taken regarding 
this matter. 
Virgin have agreed that if Ms H is willing to close a dormant credit card account she holds 
with them, it will agree to the original credit limit she requested on the terms of the original 
promotional offer. I feel this a reasonable offer from Virgin, and it may help Ms H reduce her ongoing interest costs, but I will leave it with her to discuss this with Virgin directly. Virgin 
have also asked if Ms H can provide the details of her bank account so it can send the £100 
it offered her if she wants to accept that offer. Ms H can provide those details to the 
investigator to share with Virgin. 
With that in mind I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision, so my final 
decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman