DRN-2902308
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place over 25 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is.
I think its likely the PPI would have been mentioned in the documents at the time, and that it 
would have been presented as a choice. Ive seen examples of the application forms used 
by Nationwide at the time, and this did make clear it was the customers choice about taking 
PPI. So Mr and Mrs B will have known the PPI was optional, and I dont see that it was mis-
sold in that way. 
From what we know of Nationwides processes at the time, I dont think Nationwide 
recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr B  that is in the technical insurance sense of saying 
it had made an assessment of their circumstances and was recommending this PPI as a 
good fit. Instead it was telling Mr and Mrs B about the PPI and leaving it for them to decide 
whether it suited them and whether it was worth the cost too. 
But, even if Nationwide had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr B (the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer 
 the fact Mr B had good employer sick pay wouldnt have affected his ability to make a PPI 
claim. The PPI would also have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy 
pay. And so it would have put off the time when they would need to fall back on any savings 
or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all 
would have put Mr and Mrs B in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due 
to Mr B suffering long-term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made a 
difference to whether or not Mr and Mrs B took the PPI. I say this because the potential 
benefits were greater than Mr Bs sick pay and other means, and the cost wasnt significantly 
high. So its unlikely fuller information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman