DRN-2859950
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd was chasing him for a debt which 
he denied was his. He seeks compensation for the costs hes incurred. 
What happened
Mr P tells us that he received notification by post in July 2020 regarding the repayment of a 
debt in the sum of over £12,000. He says that he didnt recognise the debt and that he and 
his solicitor advised Lantern that hed been the victim of fraud. And that they asked Lantern 
for information to prove the debt was that of Mr P. Rather than acting upon this, Mr P feels 
that Lantern asked him for unnecessary personal information and that its investigation was 
delayed. 
Lantern told us it had bought the debt in July 2020. And that it had been contacted by Mr P 
and then his solicitor to the effect that they believed the agreement giving rise to the debt 
was the result of a fraud. Lantern has explained the progress of the investigations it 
undertook. And says its now accepted that Mr P was the victim of fraud. And that he wont 
be chased for the debt. Lantern also accepted it was in error in demanding payment in 
August 2020 whilst the debt was still disputed.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Lantern shouldve responded more quickly to Mr Ps solicitors request for details of the bank 
account into which the loan had been paid. And had this been done the matter wouldve 
been settled much earlier. As Mr P was able to confirm that hed never held an account with 
the bank that had received the funds. Nor had he been employed by the company referred to 
in the loan application.
She recommended that Lantern pay £200 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr P reluctantly agreed to this outcome. But Lantern didnt accept it should pay any 
compensation. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr P would justifiably be concerned to be chased for a debt which was not 
his to pay. And to be asked to provide personal information which ought not to have been 
required in order to resolve the issue.
In determining the outcome of this complaint I think its fair to emphasise that the 
responsibility for proving that Mr P owed this debt at all times rested with Lantern.
But the impression Ive had from reading through this complaint is that Lantern has at times 
acted as though it was up to Mr P to prove the debt wasnt his. I find that approach to be 
erroneous.
Whilst its reasonable to expect the alleged victim of a fraud to assist, that doesnt mean they 
are required to supply personal information which isnt  or ought not to be  required to 
further the investigation. So why Lantern required details of Mr Ps current bank account 
details eludes me.
Exemplifying this approach is the letter of 26 August 2020 in which Lantern told Mr Ps 
solicitor that it had concluded its investigations and was requiring payment. This was 
apparently on the basis that the original owner of the debt had said that:
"The customer passed all automatic checks, therefore there is no proof required."
Im pleased to acknowledge that Lantern immediately admitted this error and has taken 
steps to ensure its not repeated. And that it complies with the relevant FCA rules.
CONC 7.14.1 R
(1) A firm must suspend any steps it takes or its agent takes in the recovery of a debt from a 
customer where the customer disputes the debt on valid grounds or what may be valid 
grounds.
CONC 7.14.2 G 
Valid grounds for disputing a debt include that:
(1) the individual being pursued for the debt is not the true borrower or hirer under the 
agreement in question; or
(2) the debt does not exist; or
(3) the amount of the debt being pursued is incorrect.
I also cannot accept that Mr Ps solicitor requiring proof of the loan and seeking to enquire 
about its enforceability should be thought to be indicative of a lack of cooperation. Or that it 
should result in a delay in the investigation of Mr Ps complaint.
A solicitor is required to act in the best interests of their client. And its entirely reasonable to 
explore alternative routes to determine if the client is liable for the debt being pursued.
And Lanterns assertion, Clearly, we cannot accept verbal statements as evidence of fraud, 
is in my opinion, to mistake whats required.
Upon receiving notification of the dispute, theres a number of actions which I think Lantern 
could and should have commenced. And which wouldnt at that stage have needed Mr P to 
provide anything more.
Not least was doing simple checks relating to the start of the agreement. This wouldve 
included checking what information had been used to support the loan application. And 
details of the bank account into which the loan had been paid.
This information ultimately proved to be a crucial part of the investigation and showed the 
money wasnt paid into an account operated by Mr P. And that hed not worked for the 
employer stated in the application.
That information was known to Lantern by 15 September 2020. Yet it was more than three 
months before it was accepted that Mr P was not the debtor. It should have been possible 
for this to have been checked much quicker.Ive concluded that Lantern ought reasonably to have accepted no later than by the end of 
September 2020 that the debt was not that of Mr Ps. And that the subsequent delay was the 
cause of distress and inconvenience that was avoidable.
I agree with our investigator that Lantern shouldnt be responsible for the fees of Mr Ps 
solicitors or the associated costs of checks made with CIFAS or a credit reference agency. 
Nor for the potential loss of choice in mortgage provider. It seems to me that these were the 
direct consequences of the fraud rather more than Lantern pursuing the debt. I understand 
that Mr P accepts this. I also acknowledge that he does so reluctantly.
In summary, Im upholding this complaint. In my opinion the delay caused by the approach 
which Lantern adopted, resulted in Mr P experiencing unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. And I find that it should pay him £200 as a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Lantern should pay £200 to Mr P for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to take the action Ive stipulated in the 
preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman