DRN-3163963
The complaint
Mr I complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance irresponsibly 
granted him a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2014, Mr I acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo Finance. Mr I paid a deposit of £3,123.75 and was required under the agreement 
to make 47 monthly repayments of £277, followed by a monthly payment of £436. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £16,576.
Mr I says that Motonovo Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Motonovo Finance didnt agree. It 
said that it used the information provided by Mr I and carried out a credit check. It said at the 
time it wasnt required to request Mr Is income but instead relied on an assumed income 
based on his occupation. It said Mr Is credit check didnt raise concerns and based on its 
checks the agreement was affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Motonovo Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr I.
Motonovo Finance didnt agree and said the agreement was taken in 2014, at which time it 
wasnt required to ask for the customers income. It said the customer did not disclose any 
dependents and only that he was married. It noted that Mr I maintained the monthly 
payments and had signed a personal declaration stating the agreement was affordable and 
sustainable.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motonovo Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I note Motonovo Finances comments about not being required to ask for a customers 
income at the time of the agreement, but it was required to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Although it did complete a credit check, this wont have indicated what 
Mr Is regular living expenses were. Without confirmation of what Mr I was earning and 
without knowing what Mr Is regular committed expenditure was I dont think it was possible 
for Motonovo Finance to make a fair assessment of Mr Is ability to afford the repayments 
without undue difficulty. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
Motonovo Finance says that based on the bank statements and pay slips it had seen Mr I 
had a monthly income of £820 and expenses of £515 for rent (which it assumed he split with 
his partner), around £102 for credit card payments and £40 for a phone contract which it 
says meant the monthly repayments of £276 were affordable. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Motonovo Finance to have gathered more 
information about Mr Is income and expenditure at the time. I cant be sure exactly what 
Motonovo Finance would have found out if it had asked about Mr Is income and 
expenditure. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place 
significant weight on the information contained in Mr Is payslips and bank statements and 
also to consider the additional information Mr I has provided as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive seen from the payslips provided that Mr Is income at the time was £656 and he was 
receiving some money from his partner and so an amount of £750 would be a reasonable 
income to use. His rent at the time as £515 which he explained paid but that he received a 
contribution towards his housing costs. Mr I has explained he was paying around £150 for 
gas and electricity as well as making payments for water. Motonovo Finances credit check 
suggested he was paying around £100 towards this other credit commitments and £40 for a 
phone contract. Mr I was also making payments for insurance and would need to pay for 
food and other items. Looking at the average payments Mr I was making each month for his 
living costs against his monthly income demonstrates that Mr I didnt have enough 
disposable income to afford the additional borrowing. Motonovo Finance therefore didnt act 
fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Motonovo Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr I should therefore 
only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £12,718.75. Anything Mr I has paid 
in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Is complaint Motonovo Finance should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr I has made in excess of £12,718.75, representing the 
original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Is credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Motonovo Finance to take off tax from this interest. 
Motonovo Finance must give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr I 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance to 
put things right in the manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman