DRN-2834697
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Avon Insurance Limited declined a claim made on an accidental death 
policy she and her late husband, Mr B, had the benefit of (the policy). 
Although Mrs B is being representative by her son in this complaint, Ive referred to Mrs B 
throughout as she was also the policyholder. 
What happened
Mr B sadly passed away in April 2020. A claim was made on the policy for a lump sum 
benefit, which was declined by Avon. 
It concluded that Mr B didnt die solely or directly from a bodily injury which was the result of 
an external violent and visible cause.
Unhappy, Mrs B complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
didnt think Avon had unfairly declined the claim. As Mrs B disagreed, this complaint has now 
been passed to me to consider afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avon has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the terms of the policy Avon will pay the benefit stated in the insurance schedule if 
Mr B died:
 solely and directly as a result of bodily injury which:
i) was suffered by the Insured during the currency of the policy; and
ii) was the result of an external violent and visible cause; and
iii) gave rise to the Insured's death within 365 days of its occurrence; and
iv) was not caused by one of the exclusions.
So, to pay out, all four elements must be satisfied. 
Im satisfied Avon has fairly concluded that Mr Bs death wasnt the result of an external 
violent and visible cause. Thats because Mr Bs death certificate reflects the cause of death 
to be:
I (a) Pneumonia
(b) Covid-19
II Pulmonary fibrosis, COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease)
   Myocardial Infarction, Hypertension
Mrs Bs son has provided links to various articles, which set out circumstances whereby 
intentionally attempting to infect people with Covid-19 constituted a potential criminal 
assault. However, Ive seen nothing to reasonably conclude that Mr B was deliberately 
infected with Covid-19 so I dont think the content of those articles are relevant here. 
Further, Im satisfied given the way in which Covid-19 can cause someone to become ill after 
the virus enters the body - and can sometimes, very sadly, result in death - this isnt a result 
of an external violent cause. 
Ive also considered an article Mrs Bs son has provided from a law firm in the USA about 
whether a death resulting from Covid-19 can constitute an accidental death. The article 
focuses on life insurance policies  which is different to the accidental death policy Mrs B 
and her late husband had the benefit of.  The article also says: an accidental death & 
dismemberment policy is more limited and covers deaths only when they're accidental.  It 
generally doesn't [usually] cover deaths caused by illness and disease. Further, the article 
is written about insurance policies in the USA, which has different laws and regulations to 
the UK. So, Ive placed limited weight to its content. Instead, Ive placed more weight on the 
terms of the policy in light of the circumstances of this complaint. And for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think Avon has unfairly and unreasonably relied on the policy terms to decline 
the claim. 
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that 
this complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the 
parties involved.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman