DRN-4291530
The complaint
Mr L complains that Policywave Limited referred him to an accident management company
(AMC) for credit hire and repair when his car was damaged, who didnt handle his claim
well.
What happened
Mr Ls car was hit by a third party driver so he called Policywave to claim for the damage the
accident caused to his car. Policywave referred the matter to an AMC who would repair Mr
Ls car and arrange a hire car while his was in for repair. Mr L said he wasnt given a choice
and the AMCs role wasnt properly explained to him.
Hes also complained about the quality of repairs carried out by the AMC. In particular, hes 
said his car hadnt been repaired using a manufacturing approved repairer and parts. Mr L 
said this has invalidated the warranty of his car and affected its value because it can no 
longer be sold as manufacturer approved when he decides to trade it in.
Policywave reviewed Mr Ls complaint and didnt uphold it. They said the AMC is a specialist 
in claims involving driving instructors like Mr L. Policywave also confirmed the AMC is
appointed to handle the first notification of loss calls on its behalf, but that the repairs to his
car were not carried out under his motor insurance policy. Because of this, Policywave
said they werent responsible for the repairs completed by the AMC.
Unhappy with Policywaves response, Mr L referred his complaint here. He said he thought
the AMC were Policywaves accident claims team and that by being told theyd claim
directly from the third partys insurer, he thought it was his own insurer who was claiming
from the third party.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2023 where I said: 
The responsibilities of Policywave
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and Policywaves responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look
at in this decision.
Policywave explained that they appointed the AMC to log customer claims and explain
customers claim options. So, when Mr L called Policywave to report the damage to his car,
he was transferred to the AMC to handle the call on Policywaves behalf. This means the
AMC was acting as Policywaves agent. So Policywave are responsible for the AMCs
actions or omissions during this call when they discussed Mr Ls claim options and referred
him for credit hire and repair.
However, Policywaves responsibility for the AMCs actions is limited to when the AMC were
acting on Policywaves behalf - and Policywave are not directly responsible for any actions
or omissions of the AMC outside of this. In other words, the AMC was acting in its own
capacity when handling Mr Ls claim  not on behalf of Policywave. And I dont have the
jurisdiction to consider the actions of the AMC.
So, to be clear, I am only considering what happened during the call between Mr L and the
AMC (acting on Policywaves behalf) when he was referred for credit hire and repair,
and whether the AMC, as Policywaves agent, met the required standards.
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Mr Ls insurance broker, Policywave were obliged to provide Mr L with information that
was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with their obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr L contacted Policywave to tell them about his non-fault claim for damage to his car,
Policywave ought to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could
decide how best to proceed with getting his car repaired.
I appreciate Policywave appointed the AMC to fulfil this task on their behalf, and I dont think
theres anything wrong in appointing a third party to do this. But, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others  it
retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. This means Policywave
are ultimately still responsible for making sure their regulatory obligations are met by any
third parties acting on their behalf.
Under Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1R) Policywave were also required to pay due regard to the
interests of Mr L as their customer and treat him fairly. And in line with the Customers best
interests rule under ICOBS 2.5.-1R, Policywave were required to act honestly, fairly, and
professionally in accordance with the best interests of their customer. And, if any
recommendations were made, Policywave were required to take reasonable care to ensure
the suitability of their advice, in line with Principle 9 (PRIN2.1R).
If I find the AMC didnt meet these regulatory requirements during the call when they referred
Mr L for credit hire and repair then Policywave would be held responsible.
The referral
Ive reviewed the contents of the referral call Mr L had with the AMC and also the e-mail that
was sent to him following this call. In the call there is no mention Mr L is stepping outside of
his regulated insurance contract or what the implications of this may be.
The e-mail sent to Mr L after the call which confirmed the AMC are dealing with the claim
goes on to say:
You do have the option to claim through your own insurance rather than
the other drivers if you wish to. The repairs maybe authorised slightly
quicker, however you maybe required to pay your excess and any no
claims discount could be affected until they can recover their costs back
at the end of the claim.
While I agree this e-mail does explain Mr L could claim through his own insurance, Im not
satisfied it goes far enough to explain the differences to Mr L about how he can arrange for
the repairs to his car so he can make an informed choice. I say this because it doesnt let Mr
L know that by continuing with the AMC hes stepping outside of a regulated insurance
contract, that he will need to enter a credit agreement for the repairs to his car and the hire
car, that Policywave or his insurer arent responsible for the actions of the AMC or that he
could ultimately be held responsible for the credit hire charges and that any recourse he mayhave if things go wrong arent the same as he gets through his regulated insurance contract.
As Im satisfied the referral was poor, Ive looked at the implications of the poor referral on 
Mr L. I asked our investigator to ask Mr L what he would have done if Policywave had given 
him sufficient information as set out above. Mr L has explained that if he had been given the
option of using the AMC knowing it wouldnt have used manufacturing approved parts then
he would have used the manufacturers AMC, because he said he has done before.
Ive therefore looked at whether the AMC could have used manufacturing parts and whether
this is something Policywave should have known. When considering this I can see that
Policywave wouldnt know which garage the AMC would send Mr Ls car too and so would
have directed Mr L to discuss who the repairing garage would be with the AMC, as its not
something it has control over. When Policywave referred Mr L outside of his regulated
insurance contract, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Policywave to have let Mr
L know he would need to speak with the AMC about which garage would repair his car, as
its not something Policywave would know or have control over.
So, to be clear, Im satisfied Policywave didnt give Mr L clear, fair and not misleading
information, but if it had he would still have agreed to use an AMC because hes said he
would have used one - albeit a different one to who Policywave referred him to. So, while Mr
L is unhappy with how the AMC dealt with the repairs to his car, Im not satisfied that is
something Policywave is responsible for.
However due to Policywave referring Mr L to this AMC, he now has the unnecessary distress
and inconvenience of sorting out the issues with his car, which he wouldnt have had if hed
used a manufacturing AMC as it would have used manufacturing approved parts. So, when
considering this along with the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Policywave caused
by the poor referral, Im satisfied £500 is a fair and reasonable amount for Policywave to pay
Mr L to compensate him for this.
Both Policywave and Mr L responded to my provisional decision. Policywave said that the 
AMC is their approved call handler and so dont agree Mr L was stepping outside of his 
contract of insurance. Policywave said the AMC carries out repairs on behalf of the insurer 
and so dont think Mr L stepped outside the contract of insurance except for the provision of 
credit hire. As the AMC also carries out repairs on behalf of Mr Ls insurance policy 
Policywave dont think Mr L would be in any different position to he would be now in regard 
to the repairs. Policywave also said when Mr L claimed previously, he didnt use a 
manufacturing AMC, it said he used the same AMC he used for this claim but without any 
issues. 
Mr L responded and said the AMC are also the repairing garage and that as Policywave 
referred him to the AMC then Policywave should be responsible for the repairs. Mr L also 
said that due to the age of his car Policywave would know it needs to be repaired with 
manufacturing approved parts and Policywave would have known the AMC wouldnt do this. 
Mr L also said if he accepts my decision then it may prevent him taking legal action in 
relation to the repairs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Policywaves comments, I would like to clarify that Im aware of the capacity 
of the AMC when taking calls on behalf of Policywave, as explained in my provisional 
decision. While the AMC might also repair vehicles on behalf of the insurer, this still means Mr L stepped outside of his insurance contract when the AMC repaired his car. I say this 
because Mr L didnt claim on his motor insurance policy, and so while his car was repaired 
by the same garage his insurer would have used, Mr Ls insurer is not responsible for the 
repairs as they werent done on Mr Ls insurers behalf. Im therefore satisfied Mr L did step 
outside his contract of insurance for credit repair and hire. 
If the AMC had repaired Mr Ls car on behalf of his insurer, this service would be able to 
consider the quality of repairs. In particular, whether the repairer carried out the repairs using 
manufacturing approved parts and methods. Im therefore satisfied Mr L has additional 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to sort out the issues he has with the repairs, as 
this service is unable to consider the repairs against Mr Ls insurer. 
Ive also considered Mr Ls comments. While I understand he feels Policywave should be 
responsible for the AMCs actions, in relation to the repair, for the reasons explained above 
Im satisfied the AMC were acting in their own right when repairing Mr Ls car. I also 
understand Mr L said Policywave should be aware the AMC wouldnt use manufacturing 
approved parts to repair his car and so shouldnt have referred him to them. As explained 
above, if this had been raised with Policywave, given the repair is outside of his policy I think 
it would be fair and reasonable for Policywave to have directed Mr L to the repairer to 
discuss how it would be repaired. Im therefore not going to tell Policywave to do anything 
else. 
Mr L has also said by accepting my decision it may prevent him taking further legal action 
through the courts. As were an alternative to the courts, if my final decision is accepted it 
would be legally binding. Therefore if Mr L wishes to take further legal action he would need 
to consider the impact accepting my final decision may have before doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Policywave Limited to pay Mr L £500 for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman