DRN-4038284
The complaint
Mrs C, Mr C and Mrs R complain about the way that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has 
handled a claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr C brought the complaint, for ease, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr C took out a travel insurance policy to cover a cruise hed booked. He was 
due to travel in July 2022.
Unfortunately, Mr C needed surgery and so the trip had to be cancelled. He made a claim on 
the travel insurance policy in June 2022.
Following some delay, IPA looked into Mr Cs claim. It appears that in August 2022, a claims 
handler told Mr C that it only needed cruise cancellation invoices in order to deal with the 
claim. In September 2022, following a further delay, IPA told Mr C that it required medical 
evidence to show he hadnt been fit to travel. Mr C says that he sent IPA hospital letters and 
a fit note. However, in October 2022, IPA let Mr C know that the information hed provided 
wasnt sufficient and that he needed to provide a medical certificate which was signed by his 
GP.
Mr C had some concerns about the completion of the certificate. Firstly, because he said 
hed already provided evidence of the surgery which had led to the claim. And secondly 
because he had concerns about how and where IPA might process his medical data. He 
was also unhappy with the delays in IPAs handling of the claim.
IPA maintained that it would be unable to progress Mr Cs claim until the medical certificate 
had been provided. It did accept that thered been unacceptable delays in the way it had 
handled the claim and so it paid Mr C £150 compensation.
Mr C remained unhappy with IPAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
also referred to the fact that IPA had wrongly relied on policy terms which didnt apply to the 
circumstances of his claim.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. He felt IPA had recognised 
that it had caused unreasonable delays in the handling of the claim. But he was satisfied that 
it had paid fair compensation to reflect this. The investigator also referred to a policy 
condition which states that IPA wont pay claims unless policyholders provide it with all 
information it requests. He felt this term applied to Mr Cs claim. And he explained that the 
policy didnt cover claims caused by pre-existing medical conditions unless theyd been 
declared to IPA at the time of sale. So he thought IPA was reasonably entitled to ask for 
information to allow it to assess whether Mr Cs claim was covered. He suggested that Mr C 
should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if he had concerns about the 
way IPA processed customer data.
Mr C disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He said that the investigator appeared to 
acknowledge that IPA had originally said hed provided enough information but had then 
gone back on this position. He didnt think the investigator had given this sufficient 
consideration. He felt customers should be able to rely on what theyre told by insurers. He 
said hed provided lots of information to IPA  hed been very patient and he wasnt being 
uncooperative. He simply didnt think IPA was acting reasonably in requiring further 
information. He considered it was unusual and unreasonable for IPA to require more medical 
evidence in the circumstances of his complaint  especially given its earlier assurance; the 
claim delays and the fact that it hasnt explained why it needs the information. He remarked 
upon IPAs reference to the wrong policy terms and he considered the relevant policy 
condition had been ambiguously applied to his claim. He also felt that by requiring him to 
accept that his data might be processed elsewhere in order for a claim to be progressed, IPA 
was treating him unfairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, I think IPA has resolved his complaint 
fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And that they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms 
of Mr Cs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think IPA treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Cs 
contract with IPA. Mr C made a cancellation claim under the policy. So the cancellation 
terms apply to Mr Cs claim. However, IPA incorrectly referred to an evidential provision 
which applies to medical expenses claims in some of its correspondence with Mr C. So I can 
appreciate why Mr C is concerned that IPA may not have assessed his claim appropriately 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
However, as the investigator explained, the policy includes a section called Exclusions and 
Conditions. This is set out on pages 31 and 32 of the policy and state that the conditions 
apply to the whole policy and that a policyholder must comply with them to have full policy 
protection. The policy says that if a policyholder fails to comply, IPA may take one or more of 
a list of actions, which includes not dealing with a claim. One of the conditions says that IPA 
will not pay a claim if a policyholder does not:
Provide all information and assistance that we may reasonably require at your expense 
(including, where necessary, medical certification and details of Your household insurance).
As Ive set out above, this term applies to the whole policy and so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for IPA to take it into account when assessing Mr Cs claim. I note that IPA did 
make specific reference to this clause in its final response to Mr Cs complaint. In my view, 
the condition makes clear that if a policyholder doesnt provide IPA with information it 
reasonably requires to assess a claim, then a claim is unlikely to be paid. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels that hes already provided IPA with enough medical evidence to 
support the fact that he wasnt fit to travel, which was the reason for the cancellation of the 
trip. I understand that he sent IPA a fit note and hospital admission notes which show that he 
had had surgery. But the terms of Mr Cs policy specifically exclude claims which are related to a policyholders pre-existing medical condition unless theyve been declared to and 
accepted by IPA. In my experience, most, if not all, travel insurance policies contain similar 
provisions, or indeed, exclude cover for pre-existing medical conditions outright. So I dont 
think its unfair or unreasonable for IPA to request a medical certificate from Mr Cs GP to 
assess whether or not his claim was caused by a pre-existing medical condition which Mr C 
hadnt already declared and accordingly, consider whether or not the claim is covered. 
Mr C has concerns about the way IPA may process his data and I understand hes made a 
complaint to the ICO about that issue. Its important I make it clear that we cant tell a 
financial business how it should operate or to change its policies and procedures. It appears 
that IPA is acting in line with its own claims handling process and I dont think its acted 
unreasonably in doing so. 
As such then, I dont think it was unfair for IPA to decline to progress Mr Cs claim further 
until its been provided with the medical information it requires. It remains open to Mr C to 
ask his GP to complete the medical certificate and to send this information on to IPA should 
he now wish to do so. 
IPA accepts that it hasnt handled Mr Cs claim as well as it should have done. There were 
delays in its handling of the claim and, in August 2022, it wrongly told Mr C it had all of the 
information it needed in order to assess his claim. I dont doubt that these delays, along with 
learning that in fact, IPA did require further evidence from him, caused Mr C some frustration 
and inconvenience, and I accept that he was recovering from surgery. But making a claim 
often causes some inconvenience and as Ive explained, I dont think its unreasonable for 
IPA to require more medical evidence before it makes a decision on Mr Cs claim. Taking 
into account the relevant timeframe and the nature of IPAs errors, I think its already paid Mr 
C fair compensation of £150 to reflect the trouble and upset I think he (together with Mrs C 
and Mrs R) was likely caused by IPAs errors. It follows Im not directing it to pay anything 
more.
It's clear how strongly Mr C feels that IPA hasnt treated him fairly. But while I agree that IPA 
has made some mistakes in the handling of this claim and in referring to the wrong policy 
terms, I dont think I could fairly direct IPA to accept the claim on this basis. As Ive set out 
above, I think IPA has acted reasonably - and in accordance with the policy terms - in asking 
Mr C to provide further medical evidence to allow it to progress his claim. Overall then, I 
think IPA has resolved this complaint fairly. 
Should Mr C decide to submit further medical evidence in support of his claim, it will be for 
IPA to consider that evidence and assess the claim further. If Mr C is unhappy with the 
outcome of any further assessment of his claim, he may be able to make a new complaint to 
us about that issue alone, once IPA has had an opportunity to look into it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C, Mr C and 
Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman