DRN-3455498
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service received from UK Insurance Limited (UKI) after he made 
a claim on his motor insurance policy. Mr W also made a complaint that UKI took payment 
for a new policy before the agreed date.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mr W was involved in an accident in his car and made a claim to UKI.
Mr W said that the length of time taken by UKI to look into the claim with the third-party 
caused avoidable delays and meant he had to pay his £300 excess while he waited for UKI 
to agree liability with the third-party. UKI paid Mr W £200 compensation for the delay in 
progressing the claim with the third-party. 
UKI arranged to repair his car and organised to provide a hire car from its approved car hire 
partner. Mr W said the car provided was not a like-for-like car. He also complained there 
were delays in returning the hire car and the time taken to repair his car. UKI paid Mr W £50 
for the poor communication he had received.
At a similar time to the accident repair Mr W was also in the process of renewing his motor 
insurance policy with UKI. UKI sent renewal letters to Mr W and he contacted it prior to the 
renewal date to agree renewal of his policy. Payment for the policy premium was taken at 
this time. Mr W said it was taken early and without his permission. He said it should have 
been taken on the date the policy was due to renew. UKI paid Mr W £50 compensation 
because it agreed it had given conflicting information. 
As Mr W was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said he didnt 
think itd be fair to say the respondent was solely responsible for the delays Mr W said he 
experienced when his claim was being processed. He felt the compensation paid to Mr W 
was acceptable in the circumstances of this case.
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are a number of parts to Mr Ws complaint, I have responded to them separately.
Time taken for repairs 
Mr Ws car was taken in for repair on 21 January 2022 and it was returned to him on 1 
February 2022. 
Within the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy there is a 7-day promise that says if UKI 
cannot repair a car within seven days it will pay £10 per day for every extra day or part day 
up to a maximum of £70.
In Mr Ws case the car was not ready for collection until 31 January 2022 and was not 
delivered back until 1 February. UKI paid Mr W £40 for the four extra days it took to repair 
his car. UKI have since sent a further £10 to cover for 1 February 2022 which is the date his 
car was returned.
I think UKI have acted fairly and within the terms of Mr Ws policy in reference to this part of 
his complaint.
Time taken to process claim
Mr W said he had to pay out £300 excess when he made his claim. He said the time taken 
by UKI to process his claim with the third-party to agree liability was unacceptable. He said 
that UKI made no contact with the third-party insurer for at least three months.
I looked at the claim notes provided by UKI to understand the steps it took to progress Mr 
Ws claim with the third-party insurer.
UKI requested confirmation of liability from the third-party insurer on 11 December 2021.
Mr W paid the excess when his car was repaired at end of January 2022. 
 
On 21 January 2022 UKI contacted Mr W and confirmed it was still waiting on the third-party 
insurer response. On 3 March 2022 UKI gave the third-party insurer a 21-day notice to settle 
the claim. Third party liability was confirmed 10 March 2022.
I understand Mr W had to pay out the £300 excess at the time the car was repaired. And I 
have seen that it was not repaid to him until 7 April 2022. 
I think UKI could have been more proactive in chasing up the third party between December 
2021 and March 2022. And once liability was accepted in March 2022 UKI should have 
picked this up and returned the excess amount to Mr W sooner that it did. 
UKI agreed there had been a lack of progress establishing liability with the third party and 
there had been poor communication from its car hire partner. It paid £200 compensation to 
Mr W for the overall delay in processing his claim.
I think £200 is fair in these circumstances. I do not require UKI to do anything more for this 
part of the complaint.
Hire car 
Mr W said the hire car provided to him was not a like-for-like car. He said it was unsuitable.
I have looked at Mr Ws motor insurance policy and it includes Guaranteed Hire Car. Within 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy in the Guaranteed Hire Car section it says; 
Hire car  a small hatchback car or similar that is supplied to you by the hire car company 
on a temporary basis. This car should keep you mobile but may not be the same as your car
in terms of its size, type, value or status.An optional extra in UKIs policy is Guaranteed Hire Car Plus. This was not included in Mr 
Ws policy. In this section it says;
Hire car  a similar physical size car or van to your car, if such size is available, that is 
supplied to you by the hire car company on a temporary basis. This car should keep you
mobile but may not be the same as your car in terms of its size, type, value or status. 
I am satisfied that the small hatchback car supplied to Mr W was within the terms and 
conditions of his policy. Mr Ws policy did not include the optional Guaranteed Hire Car 
Plus which would have provided a hire car of a similar size to his insured car.
Mr W additionally said that UKIs car hire partner was inflexible with return arrangements for 
the vehicle and it needed to be arranged between 8am and 5pm which was not possible for 
him. UKI agreed that its car hire partner was unable to give definite times for collection and 
apologised for this.
UKI sent £50 as compensation for the poor communication Mr W had received when 
organising his hire car. 
I think £50 is fair in these circumstances. I do not require UKI to do anything more for this 
part of the complaint. 
Policy renewal
Mr W received a motor insurance policy renewal notification. His policy was set up as a 
manual renewal. 
Mr W spoke to UKIs customer service team on 4 January 2022 to clarify the renewal. He 
was told if he accepted the renewal quote the payment premium would be taken from his 
bank account on the policy renewal date which was 13 January 2022.
Mr W called UKIs renewal team on 6 January 2022 to accept the renewal quote. During this 
call the UKI call handler asked Mr W if he would like the renewal to be changed to 
auto-renewal and Mr W said no. The policy was renewed, and the payment was taken 
straight away. On the call the call handler advised Mr W that the payment would be taken 
immediately and Mr W accepted this. 
UKI accepted its customer service team gave incorrect advice on the call on 4 January 2022. 
It clarified that payment is taken immediately once a manual renewal quote is accepted and 
is only taken on the renewal date if the policy is on auto-renewal. UKI paid Mr W 
compensation of £50 for its error.
 
I think £50 is fair in these circumstances. I do not require UKI to do anything more for this 
part of the complaint.
Overall UKI paid Mr W a total of £300 in compensation. I think taking in to account all 
elements of Mr Ws complaint that this is a fair amount.   
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint and think the compensation amounts paid to 
him are fair and reasonable considering all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman