DRN-4138843
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Covea Insurance plc and the amount they offered her to settle her 
claim following the loss of her engagement ring.
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by Covea. Within this policy, Mrs S 
specified her ring, estimating its value at £4,500. Unfortunately, in early 2022, Mrs S lost this 
ring. So, Mrs S contacted Covea to make a claim on the policy.
As part of the claim process, Covea asked Mrs S to provide images of the ring, as well as 
proof of purchase. Covea then instructed an independent jeweller, who Ill refer to as L, to 
validate the claim and value the ring that had been lost. And then, if necessary, look to 
replace the ring. L accepted the ring as owned but explained the photos provided werent 
clear. So, they valued Mrs S ring based on the description Mrs S provided. And having done 
so, they valued Mrs S ring at £17,220.
Comparing this valuation against the estimated value Mrs S declared on the policy, Covea 
classed Mrs S as being underinsured. So, the offered Mrs S a proportionate settlement of 
the estimated value she provided, based on the increase in premium she wouldve paid had 
Mrs S estimated the value of the ring as the same as the estimate L provided. So, Covea 
offered Mrs S a final settlement amount of £2,324.70. Mrs S was unhappy about this, and 
she raised a complaint.
Mrs S was unhappy with the valuation Covea placed on her ring. She felt the valuation was 
excessively high and intended to allow Covea to pay out a lesser settlement amount. Mrs S 
felt she had estimated the value of her ring to the best of her ability and so, she wanted 
Covea to pay her a settlement that allowed her to replace the ring.
Covea responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted their initial 
settlement offer of £1,174.50 had been calculated incorrectly. And they paid Mrs S £100 
compensation to recognise the upset this may have caused. But they thought their final 
settlement offer of £2,324.70 was a fair one and they were satisfied with the valuation 
provided by L, and that Mrs S was underinsured. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
During our services involvement, Mrs S provided us with an independent report she 
obtained which valued her ring at £5,995. Our investigator provided this report to Covea for 
their consideration. Following this report, and conversations with our investigator, Covea 
agreed to obtain three further independent valuations, considering the large difference in 
valuation between Ls and the report Mrs S obtained. But to this date, Covea hasnt provided 
these further valuations, despite our services additional requests. So, our investigator 
continued with their investigation based on all of the evidence they had available.
And having done so, our investigator upheld the complaint. Our investigator accepted that, 
based on both reports, Mrs S was likely to have been underinsured. So, they thought Covea 
were fair to pay Mrs S a proportionate settlement, and that the way they had calculated the 
£2,324.70 offer was a fair one.
But crucially, our investigator wasnt persuaded that the ring was worth the higher valuation 
provided by L. Instead, our investigator felt the valuation in the report provided by Mrs S was 
likely to be a more accurate one. So, our investigator thought Covea should re-calculate the 
settlement offer provided to Mrs S, using the £5,995 valuation rather than the valuation of 
£17,220. And, if this resulted in Mrs S being owed an additional amount, they recommended 
that Covea pay 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date of the original settlement 
until the date of payment. 
Mrs S accepted this recommendation. But Covea didnt reply. As Covea didnt reply, our 
service has to assume the recommendation has been rejected and so, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to express my recognition that when Mrs S took out the policy with Covea and 
specified her engagement ring as an item of high value, she provided a valuation that she 
thought was correct. Ive seen evidence that shows Mrs S ring was valued at £4,000 in 2004. 
And so, I think Mrs S has increased the value slightly in an attempt to acknowledge the likely 
increase in value brought about by the lapse in time, while using this original valuation as 
some form of starting point.
But considering both the valuation by L, and the report provided by Mrs S, I think its clear 
the £4,500 valuation Mrs S provided was too low as it fell significantly below both valuations 
our service has to consider. So, Im satisfied that Mrs S was underinsured, although I dont 
think Mrs S intentionally sought this to be the case. And because of this, I think Covea are 
able to provide Mrs S with a proportionate settlement, in line with standard industry practice 
and regulations.
But Im also aware that the valuation Mrs S obtained, of £5,995, is significantly lower than 
the valuation placed on the ring by L, who valued it at £17,220. So, based on the evidence 
available to me, Ive thought about which valuation I think is most likely to be accurate based 
on the balance of probabilities.
I note Covea have been given the chance to provide additional valuations to support the 
valuation reached by L, after agreeing to obtain these. But, Covea have failed to do so. So, 
Im left with two conflicting valuations, and Ive thought about which report Im more 
persuaded by.
In this situation, I have evidence to show that in 2004, Mrs S ring was valued at £4,000. As 
this was valued some time ago, I would expect the ring to have increased in value. But I note 
Ls valuation is more than four times the valuation placed in 2004. And, even with inflation 
and increased value over time, I think this is a substantial increase and one I feel Covea 
needs to substantiate. And I dont think Covea have done so. I think Covea have been given 
ample time and opportunity to do so and without additional valuations valuing the ring at a similar level, I dont think I can say this valuation is a fair one.
So, considering this, Im more persuaded by the valuation Mrs S obtained, valuing the ring at 
£5,995. And because of this, I dont think I can say Covea have acted fairly when calculating 
the settlement Mrs S has received based on a value of £17,220. As I dont think Covea have 
acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think Covea should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs S back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had Covea acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, I think its accepted that 
Mrs S was underinsured and so, her policy premium would likely have been less than she 
wouldve paid had she valued her ring correctly. So, I do think Covea are able to offer Mrs S 
a proportionate settlement to settle the claim.
But, had Covea acted fairly, I think they wouldve used a reasonable valuation to calculate 
this settlement. And from the evidence I have available to me, I think this valuation is £5,995. 
So, I think Covea should calculate Mrs S settlement in the same way they have already but 
replace the valuation of £17,220 with the valuation of £5,995.
If this calculation results in Mrs S being owed an additional amount, I think Covea should 
add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the original settlement was made, until 
the date of payment, to address the length of time Mrs S was without access to these funds.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint about Covea Insurance plc and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Re-calculate Mrs S settlement, using a valuation of £5,995.
If this re-calculation results in Mrs S being owed an additional amount, this should be 
paid to Mrs S including an additional 8% simple interest on this amount from the date 
of the original settlement to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman