DRN-2761979
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (SDFC) 
irresponsibly gave him a running account credit facility he couldnt afford to repay. He also 
says many purchases were incorrectly transferred to a buy-now-pay-later (BNPL) 
arrangement when he wasnt eligible for that facility.  
What happened
Mr M applied for two running account credit facilities with SDFC. He says adequate 
affordability checks werent completed before the accounts were opened or before each 
credit limit increase was approved. Ive set out a brief summary of the credit limits below.
Account one had the following limits:
Date Limit
May 2014 £600
November 
2014£800
November 
2014£1,200
January 2015 £1,600
April 2015 £1,900
August 2015 £2,200
October 2015 £1,600*
July 2016 £1,800
December 
2016£2,800
April 2017 £3,200
July 2017 £3,600
October 2017 £4,000
February 2018 £4,400
April 2018 £4,800
August 2018 £5,800
 *SDFC says it decreased the limit to £2,100 in October 2015 as it saw adverse information 
on Mr Ms credit file. However, Mr M requested that SDFC reduce the limit even further 
which is why it was reduced to £1,600. 
Account two was opened in January 2018 with a credit limit of £500. No credit limit changes 
were applied to account 2.  
Mr M says that SDFCs decision to lend to him and increase the available credit has had a 
significant impact on him over a prolonged period of time. He says he was using the credit 
facility to buy goods in order to sell them on. He said he would use the proceeds of the sales 
to pay off other debts he had. He says that on multiple occasions SDFC allowed him to take 
out expensive purchases on BNPL even though he wasnt eligible for those promotions. He 
says had SDFC not done this, he wouldnt have accrued as much debt as he has with 
SDFC. 
SDFC reviewed Mr Ms complaint and didnt think it had acted unfairly in approving the credit 
to him. However, it acknowledged that on two occasions it shouldnt have allowed Mr M to 
transfer purchases onto BNPL. It said on a third occasion it acknowledged the correct BNPL 
sales process wasnt followed. To resolve the complaint, SDFC agreed to refund all interest 
and charges applied since the limit increase to £4,800 in April 2018. The total refund was 
£2,253.50. It also agreed to pay a further £50 compensation for the poor service Mr M had 
received in relation to the BNPL transfers. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think SDFC should have 
increased Mr Ms limit after it was reduced to £1,600. He said that proportionate affordability 
checks werent completed when SDFC sought to increase the limit to £1,800 in July 2016. 
He said had SDFC done so, it would have likely discovered Mr M couldnt afford the 
increase. He said that SDFC should refund all interest and charges applied to any balances 
above £1,600 from July 2016. Further, he said that by November 2016 it ought to have been 
apparent that Mr M was struggling financially and could no longer sustain any borrowing with 
SDFC. He said from November 2016 onwards all interest and charges ought to be refunded.
SDFC accepted that recommendation but Mr M didnt. In summary, he said:
The suggested outcome wouldnt place him back in the position he would have been 
in if the lending hadnt been approved. 
Any outstanding balance which relates to goods that he has sold should be written 
off. This is because he hasnt received any benefit of those goods as they were used 
to settle other debts. 
He has provided evidence to demonstrate he couldnt afford the borrowing from the 
outset and he was in financial difficulty in 2014 and 2015. 
The compensation payment of £50 is not appropriate due to the prolonged financial 
impact this lending has had on him. He has defaulted on numerous other debts 
meaning his credit file will not be clear of adverse information for a significant period 
of time. SDFC should pay him £20,000 in order to help him clear the majority of his 
outstanding debt with other creditors. It should pay a further £10,000 as 
compensation for the financial distress caused. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SDFC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
SDFC were required to completed proportionate affordability checks prior to providing Mr M 
with credit. What is considered proportionate will vary and will be dependent on (but not 
limited to) things such as, the amount and type of credit, the size and frequency of the 
repayments, the cost of the credit and what the lender knows about the consumers 
individual circumstances. 
Account onePrior to approving the initial limit of £600 in May 2014, I think SDFC gathered a reasonable 
and proportionate amount of evidence and information from Mr M about his ability to repay. 
I say this because the initial limit was relatively low with small monthly repayments and the 
credit check it completed didnt indicate that Mr M was struggling financially or that he might 
struggle to repay such a credit facility.
The credit limit was increased five times until it reached £2,200 in August 2015. Prior to this 
I can see that Mr M had managed his SDFC account reasonably well. There were no missed 
or late payments and hed frequently made significant overpayments (in comparison to his 
contractual minimum payment). 
SDFC hasnt provided details of the credit checks it completed prior to the increases so 
I cant be certain of exactly what it saw at the time. However, Mr M has provided us with a 
copy of his credit file. In the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on what 
Mr M has provided as an indication of what SDFC likely saw. Having done so, I cant see 
that there would have been anything within Mr Ms credit file, prior to August 2015 that ought 
to have caused SDFC to question the reasonableness of lending to Mr M, particularly given 
the way hed managed his SDFC account up to that point. I note Mr M did have some other 
credit commitments at the time, but these were all managed reasonably well and any credit 
limits that were available to him were small.  
Towards the latter part of 2015, Mr Ms credit file indicates his reliance on credit increased 
significantly. This coincides with what SDFC found in October 2015 when it lowered his 
credit limit due to affordability concerns. Mr M contacted SDFC at this time and requested 
his limit be reduced further to what SDFC had proposed. At this stage SDFC was therefore 
well aware that Mr M was struggling financially. 
While some time did pass before SDFC raised Mr Ms credit limit again, I think proportionate 
and reasonable affordability checks at this stage ought to have been more thorough. This is 
because it was already aware Mr M had requested a lower limit due to affordability and it 
knew he had taken on more credit commitments. I think at the very least SDFC ought to 
have tried to verify what Mr Ms income was. Had SDFC done so, I think its likely the 
information it would have gathered would have shown that a further limit increase would 
have been unaffordable to Mr M. I therefore think SDFC acted unfairly by increasing Mr Ms 
limit beyond £1,600 from July 2016 onwards.
SDFC also had a duty to monitor Mr Ms account usage for signs of financial difficulty and 
step in to assist if necessary  which it had already done in 2015 when it lowered his credit 
limit. By November 2016, Mr M had failed to make the minimum payment on his account on 
several occasions. His overall account balance also continued to stay close to the limit 
during that time. A review of his credit file would likely have shown that Mr M was managing 
several other running account credit accounts in a similar manner. I think it ought to have 
been clear to SDFC at this point that Mr M could no longer sustainably repay the SDFC 
credit facility. I think it would have been reasonable for SDFC to have stepped in at this 
stage, reviewed Mr Ms circumstances and offered measures to help him. 
I cant be certain what would have happened had SDFC stepped in as it should have. But 
from the information Mr M has provided, it seems likely SDFC would have discovered that 
Mr M was significantly indebted with various creditors with only a modest income that 
couldnt support all the repayments he was contractually obliged to make. I think applying 
further interest and charges at that stage would have been unhelpful and counter-productive. 
For these reasons, I think SDFC should also ensure it now refunds all interest and charges it 
applied to Mr Ms account from November 2016 onwards. Account two
Account two was opened in January 2018 with a credit limit of £500. As I think SDFC ought 
to have known by this stage that Mr M couldnt sustainably afford to repay any further credit, 
I think SDFC acted unfairly by opening account two.
BNPL
Mr M also complains about SDFC transferring a number of his purchases to BNPL when he 
wasnt eligible for the promotion. SDFC has accepted fault with three of those transactions. 
While I realise Mr M says there were several more transactions which were transferred when 
they shouldnt have been, I havent seen any evidence to indicate that was the case. 
However, even if I was satisfied there had been, Im not persuaded any additional 
compensation is warranted on top of what Im proposing to award. 
I say this because any interest or charges that may have been applied to those BNPL 
transactions will be refunded to him through the redress Im directing anyway. Further, 
I understand Mr M says he hasnt received any benefit of the goods he purchased. However, 
I disagree. Mr M told us he sold those goods so that he could use the funds to pay off other 
debts with other creditors. Therefore, Mr M has had benefit of those goods because if he 
hadnt sold them, he would owe more money to those other creditors. I dont therefore think 
it would be fair or reasonable to direct SDFC to refund any of the capital amounts Mr M has 
borrowed.   
SDFC has paid Mr M £50 compensation for the poor way it handled the BNPL transactions. 
In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable. I note Mr M says that he holds SDFC 
responsible for the difficult financial circumstances hes now in. Im sorry to hear about the 
problems Mr M is facing and Im sorry to disappoint him, but Im not persuaded SDFC are 
solely to blame (or primarily to blame) for the number of other creditors and amount of debt 
Mr M has. Im satisfied the redress Ive set out below is a fair and reasonable way to put 
things right for what SDFC has done.  
Putting things right
SDFC should do the following to put things right:
Rework account one so that all interest and charges applied on balances in excess of 
£1,600 after July 2016 are refunded to reflect the fact that no further limit increases 
should have been granted after this date. 
The reworking of account one should also take into consideration that after 
November 2016 no interest or charges should have been applied on the entire 
balance. 
Rework account two so that no interest or charges are applied to the entire balance 
from the outset. 
If after reworking the accounts there is an outstanding balance, SDFC should 
arrange a suitable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Or if the 
reworking results in a credit balance, the credit balance should be treated as an 
overpayment and refunded to Mr M. SDFC should also add 8% simple interest per 
year on that refund from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Once the reworked outstanding balance has been repaid, SDFC should remove all 
adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to these two accounts.
If the debts have been sold to a third party, SDFC should either buy back the debts in order 
to complete the settlement or liaise with the third party to make the necessary balance and 
credit file adjustments. 
If SDFC considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
supply Mr M with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, if he is eligible to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as very to put things right in the manner Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman