DRN-2679561
The complaint
Mr M complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has refused to refund some of 
the premiums he paid for his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M held a personal private medical insurance policy, which is insured by AXA. The policy 
renewed in December every year and Mr M paid for the policy by monthly premiums.
In June 2020, Mr M got in touch with AXA to explain that his local private hospital was 
effectively shut because it had been requisitioned to help deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr M felt that therefore, AXA should reimburse some of the premiums hed paid. 
AXA said Mr Ms policy could still have provided benefits to him, so it didnt agree to refund 
any of his premiums at that point.  But it said it would be reviewing the total value of claims 
paid over 2020 and 2021, and if the value of these fell compared to 2019 because of the 
coronavirus crisis, it would pass any refunds due back to members by March 2022. 
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs decision. And as his renewal quote had risen substantially at 
the 2020 renewal, he cancelled the policy. He asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that AXA 
had continued to pre-authorise claims during the Covid-19 crisis. And she felt that AXA had 
treated Mr M in the same way as any of its other policyholders in the same situation.
Mr M disagreed. Ive summarised his response. Both private hospitals local to him had been 
closed to private patients during most of 2020. Hed booked a consultation for his wife 
independently and had been told that as this appointment would have to take place 
remotely; the cost would be discounted. So he felt AXA wouldve been entitled to similar 
discounts and this was a reason why premiums shouldve been reduced, or the policy 
shouldve been suspended. He considered that had he needed access to a consultant, it 
wouldnt have been possible to do so. He queried how policyholders could be satisfied that 
any rebates AXA paid them did represent the actual surplus value. He said that this issue 
didnt just apply to him, but to all policyholders in the same situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think AXA has treated him fairly. Ill 
explain why.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with AXA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say his plan is for one year, and that monthly 
premiums must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. AXA provided cover 
under Mr Ms private medical insurance policy from December 2019 to December 2020. Mr 
M told us he didnt make any claims during that year, but AXA is nevertheless entitled to 
retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr M making a claim during the policy year. 
And the terms of Mr Ms plan set out his cancellation rights under the contract. These say 
that if a policyholder cancels their policy within a 14-day cooling-off period, they wont have 
to pay anything. If they cancel after the cooling-off period, then a policyholder who pays their 
premiums monthly can cancel their plan from the next payment date. Theres no term in the 
contract which allows Mr M to reduce the monthly premium he paid or suspend the payment 
of premiums. So I think it was fair for AXA to conclude that these options simply werent 
available to Mr M.
Ive borne in mind that Mr M says that when hes complained about the price of his policy 
previously, AXAs waived two months of premiums. But AXA is entitled to decide in what 
circumstances it is prepared to use its discretion to offer refunds or premium waivers. So I 
dont think its bound to take the same action here.
Even if Mr M had needed to claim between March 2020 and the end of the policy year, I 
dont think its accurate to say his policy would have been unusable. Depending on the type 
of medical treatment or services Mr M required, AXA could have pre-authorised treatment to 
be carried out at a later date. Mr M had access to AXAs clinical support services without any 
excess or outpatient benefit limits, as well as to its remote GP services. Mr M would also 
have been eligible to claim enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. AXA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
AXAs control. And while it seems Mr M was told his wife could independently access a 
remote consultation with her specialist at a discount, he accepts he didnt plan to use the 
policy for pay for it. AXA has told us that it was invoiced the same prices regardless of 
whether consultations were in-person or remote.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require AXA to refund any premiums to Mr M. 
AXA has said it intends to review the value of claims made in 2020 and 2021. If the 
combined value of claims has fallen compared to 2019, then any difference will be passed 
back to its members by way of a refund, with its calculations verified by an independent 
auditor. I dont think this is an unfair position for AXA to take. I understand Mr M is 
concerned about whether this process will be conducted fairly and wants it to happen now. 
But AXA wishes to assess the impact of the coronavirus situation on its claims over a two-
year period and I dont think this is unreasonable. There is no guarantee that Mr M will be 
entitled to any refund in 2022 though  this is for AXA to calculate when it has the 
information it needs about claims values over the relevant period. If Mr M is unhappy with 
the way any potential rebate is calculated, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us 
about that issue.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I wont be asking AXA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman