DRN-3690653
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA)s decision to limit 
the amount it paid for a ring which Mrs P lost and claimed for under their joint home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P bought a home insurance policy through their bank. They made a claim under 
the policy which the insurer RSA dealt with. Mrs P made a claim for a ring shed 
unfortunately lost outside the home. 
Mr and Mrs Ps policy limited unspecified items at a value of £2,000. For items valued at 
over £2,000, it was for Mr and Mrs P to itemise. Mrs Ps ring was listed as a specified item 
under the contents section of the home insurance policy. So RSA would provide cover for 
the value of the ring if the item was lost in the home. 
While other items of jewellery valued over £2,000 were specified under the out and about 
section of the policy, the ring wasnt. So RSA said the settlement it would pay for the ring 
would be limited to £2,000. 
Mr P thought RSAs decision was unfair and he raised a complaint. But RSA said its decision 
was correct and in line with the policy. 
Mr P asked us to look at their complaint. He said he believed the policy may have been mis-
sold to them. 
Our Investigator explained that RSA as the insurer of the policy didnt sell the policy to Mr 
and Mrs P. He found that the policy documents and the information provided to Mr and Mrs 
P at each renewal was clear as to the type and level of cover they held with RSA. So he 
didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree. He believes RSA should have done more as it seemed obvious that as it 
was a ring, it would have been worn out and about - like the watches - and so Mr and Mrs P 
would have wanted the same level of cover for the ring. Mr P believes they were paying a 
premium to specifically cover the ring but when it came to making a claim, they havent 
received the value of what they paid for.
So Mr P wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the insurer RSA is to provide cover as set out under the policy. RSA didnt sell 
the policy to Mr and Mrs P. In order to reach a decision, Ive looked at what information Mr 
and Mrs P were provided with about their policy - which was sent to them by their bank. And 
Ive considered that their complaint was about the claim not being met in full, which RSA 
responded to as the insurer deciding the outcome of the claim.
Ive looked at a copy letter the bank sent to Mr and Mrs P in January 2019. It explained that 
it had made some changes to the policy but the amount Mr and Mrs P were paying wouldnt 
change. It provided updated policy documents and explained that it was really important for 
Mr and Mrs P to read and check that they were happy that the information was correct. If 
not, the bank invited Mr and Mrs P to contact it. 
Ive looked at the documents sent to Mr and Mrs P in January 2019. RSA confirmed that no 
changes were requested by Mr and Mrs P - or at subsequent renewal dates. So the details 
of cover in January 2019 in relation to their claim were the same when Mrs P made her claim 
for the lost ring. 
The policy schedule and Statement of Fact documents highlight key points about the level of 
cover Mr and Mrs P requested. Under the section Details of the cover youve chosen it 
shows what is covered under Contents. It lists the level of cover as unlimited and provides 
details of what it limits as a single item. The policy clearly says the single item limit is £2,000 
unless specified. Underneath, Mr and Mrs P specified the ring as an item with a value of 
£3,770. Mr P has provided a copy of a valuation for the ring, and the two watches specified 
elsewhere under the policy from 2019. 
On the next page, details of the cover held continued. The section Out and About cover 
provided a limit of £2,000 for items not specified. 
Mr and Mrs P specified two items, the watches, both valued at over £2,000. 
This section of the policy read:
Remember to let us know about any item over this limit so we can specify it on your 
policy.
So I think Mr and Mrs P paid a premium for the level of cover as set out under the policy. 
And this cover didnt include out and about cover for the lost ring. 
The onus is on a customer to read and check their policy documents to ensure the 
information is correct. As there isnt anything to suggest Mr and Mrs P were unsure or 
concerned about the type of cover requested, I dont think RSA is at fault for the way it dealt 
with the claim. 
Some brokers provide advice at the sale of a policy to a customer. Some dont. So its for the 
customer to decide what type and level of cover to suit their needs. Some customers own 
jewellery from family members that they want to insure for all sorts of reasons; so not all 
jewellery is worn outside the home. This is why its up to a customer to decide about the type 
of cover they want based on their individual circumstances, demands and needs and to 
obtain the appropriate level of cover from their insurer. 
I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs P will be with my decision. And I appreciate that 
the lost ring had sentimental value. But I think the policy wording was very clear as to the 
level of cover RSA provided for specified items. And so if Mr and Mrs P wanted to change 
the cover, they had the opportunity to do so in January 2019, or at any time since. I think 
they had a further opportunity to assess the levels of cover and make changes at 
subsequent renewal dates. As RSA didnt receive a request to change the cover, I think it 
dealt with their claim reasonably and in line with the policy. I think Mr and Mrs P paid for the 
level of cover set out under the policy. And I think RSA treated them fairly and as it would 
any other customer in the same circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman