DRN-1801199
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 1989 in connection with a mortgage. Mr P says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold 
him PPI.
What happened
Mr P took out a PPI policy during a meeting in connection with his mortgage. He paid a 
monthly amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover for 
up to 2 years on a successful claim. He complains he was lead to believe it was a condition 
of the mortgage to have PPI; he thought it was compulsory and that he wouldnt get the 
mortgage without it. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr P disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. He added he had enough 
savings and enough cover from his business to cover him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Nationwide should have made Mr P aware he had a choice in buying the policy. He said he 
was told PPI was compulsory to get the mortgage, but he didnt give any detail about what 
he was told that day during the meeting or who had the conversation with him. 
Nationwide didnt have any paperwork from the time of sale and could not initially trace the 
PPI sale without Mr P producing his own documents. I dont think thats surprising given that 
the sale took place around 30 years ago. But it does mean I have limited information about 
the sale, so I have to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, given the 
information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Nationwide sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And Mr P hasnt told me anything 
that makes me think Nationwide didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its 
more likely Nationwide made it clear to him he had a choice about the PPI, and he chose to 
buy it. 
Nationwide said the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, the PPI information had 
to be clear, fair and not misleading for Mr P to make an informed decision. So it was up to 
him to decide if the policy was of benefit to him. I looked at his financial circumstances at the 
time to see if he would get any benefit from the policy.I noted he said had enough savings to cover him for one years salary. But the policy could 
have paid the mortgage repayments alone for a maximum of 24 months for on a successful 
claim  leaving his savings to cover other expenses. So I think the PPI was of value to Mr P.  
He had borrowed funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on his home. So I think having the security that the mortgage repayments would be 
made if he was unable to work would have been important to him.
I dont know what information he received about the PPI, but he wasnt affected by the things 
the policy didnt cover, so I dont think any more detailed information would have put him off 
from buying the policy.
I dont know what information he was given about the cost and benefits of the policy but, 
having decided he chose to have PPI, I think he wanted this type of cover. So I dont think 
any more detailed information about the cost and benefits would have put him off from 
buying the policy.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what he said and 
about what I know of Nationwides sales processes. And I dont think  on balance  I can 
fairly and reasonably uphold this complaint.
Mr P also mentioned the commission Nationwide got on the PPI sale. In 2017, following a 
Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some rules about 
how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of commission where 
PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Nationwide has confirmed Mr Ps mortgage ended before 2008. So based on what Ive said 
above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-
disclosure of commission apply here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr P paid for the PPI he had 
with his mortgage. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Amrit MangraOmbudsman