DRN-3425337
The complaint
Mr H is a sole trader. He complains that he couldnt access the Pay As You Grow options 
applicable to his Bounce Back Loan with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) as the 
banks online system didnt work correctly.
What happened
Mr H told us:
He has a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with NatWest, but he was unable to view the 
loan details or apply for any of the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) options under the BBL 
Scheme through his online business banking when hed wanted to access this in 
March 2021.
The link hed been given took him to a personal banking page and said that the BBL 
was being serviced by an external account. This wasnt applicable to his situation, 
and he felt it left his account and security information at risk of being intercepted. 
It took more than eight weeks for the bank to respond to his concerns about the link it 
had provided. And hes now been told by NatWest that it is a commercial decision for 
customers to be redirected and to access their the BBL information in this way. 
He was repeatedly given incorrect information by the bank, which caused 
unnecessary delays. NatWest acknowledged this and offered £400 compensation, 
but this isnt enough for the inconvenience caused. Had he been able to apply for the 
PAYG options, he could have reduced his outgoings by around £250 per month and 
his business suffered because he wasnt able to do so.
NatWest told us:
There was an error with its website which took business customers to a personal 
loan page rather than the business page, which had now been resolved.
It was aware Mr H said there was an error regarding the BBL repayments, so it had 
suggested in May 2021 he apply, and it would resolve this internally by making any 
manual adjustments required to his BBL, so his application wasnt delayed. However, 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this interim solution until it could fully resolve his system 
issue. 
It believed Mr H had attempted to apply for PAYG options at times when its website 
had been off-line. The links on its website were working correctly when staff had 
attempted to access the PAYG options in the same way Mr H would do. It had 
provided alternative options to Mr H, such as the manual amendment and alternative 
weblinks to access the PAYG page he required. 
It recognised Mr H had been caused inconvenience, as it had taken from March 2021 
to August 2021 for it to resolve the system issue. It also agreed its customer service 
could have been better, so it had offered him compensation. 
Our investigator thought NatWests offer was fair. She agreed that Mr H had been caused 
inconvenience by the delays, system issues, concerns over his security and limited options 
offered by the bank. However, she said the banks apology and offer of £400 compensation 
which a fair way to put things right.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that the links provided by the bank still didnt work and not being 
able to apply for the PAYG options had impacted him and his business, so the compensation 
amount offered by the bank wasnt enough.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator that the offer made 
by NatWest is fair. NatWest has accepted that its website wasnt working as it should have 
been, and that it wasnt able to see all the issues Mr H was he was experiencing. It says that 
it only became aware of the error regarding the BBL being repaid from a non-bank account 
when Mr H made it aware towards the end of March 2021. However, Ive seen that by May 
2021 NatWest gave Mr H an alternative method to apply as he felt the option about where 
his repayment would be made from was incorrect. 
The bank said that it couldnt change the error for where payments would be made from as 
its IT department were still resolving the issue. However, if Mr H ticked the error box, this 
would force his application through the system, and it would make the manual amendments 
to any repayments required on his BBL depending on which PAYG option hed chosen as 
the options hadnt been affected by the repayment method. However Mr H didnt want to do 
this. 
Mr H says this was because he couldnt see the terms and conditions of each of the options. 
But Im not persuaded thats the case. I say this because even though Mr H wasnt able to 
make his application without ticking the box with the error, Ive seen the information about 
the PAYG options was available on the banks main website. So I think NatWest had given a 
reasonable alternative to Mr H within around six weeks of being notified of the repayment 
method error during the PAYG application journey. 
Mr H said that because of NatWests actions he was prevented from applying for the BBL 
PAYG options which impacted his business as he could have reduced his monthly 
outgoings. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I recognise that the banks internet issue 
caused Mr H frustration as he was given incorrect information online, but in mid-May 2021 
NatWest gave Mr H an alternative way that he could apply for any of the PAYG options that 
he wanted. Ive also seen that from the end of May 2021 until the end of August 2021, 
NatWest continued to engage with Mr H - albeit less frequently than he expected. The bank 
said it had resolved the issue regarding access to the PAYG options - but it explained they 
couldnt be accessed in the way Mr H had wanted. 
Mr H says that hed repeatedly tried the new links provided but these didnt work. Ive looked 
at the evidence from Mr H and based on this, when he made his attempts the banks wider 
online system wasnt working - rather than just the link that he had been given. NatWest has 
also provided evidence that when it followed the customer journey, the links worked 
correctly, and that its technical team reviewed it and were satisfied that the issue had been 
resolved. So I think its more likely that the PAYG application pages themselves had been 
corrected  but not the pages a borrower would be directed to in order to apply. 
Mr H also raised another issue with NatWests systems in that when he was looking to 
access his BBL, he was being taken to the personal account page rather than the business 
account page. He says this was incorrect and should have been fixed by the bank. I can see 
that NatWest did give Mr H mixed messages initially because it couldnt see the issue he was experiencing. It then advised the route Mr H needed to take via the internet was a 
commercial decision. This was incorrect because several months later, the process was 
amended by the bank. 
I recognise this was frustrating for Mr H, but I dont think this had a significant impact as he 
was still being directed within NatWests own website  albeit not the route he thought was 
correct. Ive also seen that the business banking page could be accessed from a simple click 
on the tab next to the personal banking page. And I dont think there was a greater risk of 
this route being intercepted by a third party, any more than it would have been if hed been 
taken to the business banking page directly.  
Mr H says that because he couldnt apply online, NatWest should have allowed him to apply 
via the phone or within the branch instead and by not doing so, it treated him unfairly. 
However, the bank has advised that the PAYG options can only be accessed online so it 
wasnt able to offer these alternatives.
Mr H said that because he couldnt apply for one of the PAYG options, he hadnt been able 
to reduce his outgoings and that this had affected his business. But Im not persuaded thats 
the case. I say this because Mr H told our investigator that he didnt want to apply using the 
link hed been given, as hed have to agree to a declaration that was incorrect. Mr H also 
said that he didnt need to apply for the PAYG options, but he just wanted the option to apply 
if he chose to. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I agree that Mr H was caused inconvenience as the banks 
system held incorrect information initially, the links didnt route him to the pages he expected 
and at times it could have provided better updates. However, Ive seen that NatWest offered 
to assist Mr H in the quickest and only way it could at the time  albeit with an incorrect 
declaration. And that it did continue to investigate Mr Hs issues, provide alternative links, 
and eventually resolve Mr Hs access to the PAYG options - should he have wished to 
access them. So I think the apology for the service issues and the £400 compensation 
offered by NatWest is a fair way to put things right. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr H £400 compensation 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman