DRN-4025672
The complaint
Mr J and Ms J complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Our investigators view
Both Mr J and Ms J, and AXA, accepted our investigators view of this complaint  which she 
provided in October 2022.  However, Mr J and Ms J have since contacted our service to say 
AXA has yet to carry out what our investigator recommended to put things right.
Our service has contacted AXA regarding this, but it hasnt responded.
Further developments
The complaint has now been passed to me to make a final decision. In doing so, I must 
manage Mr J and Ms Js expectations that my role here is to look at the complaint that has 
been brought to our service originally. And I cannot consider matters that have happened 
since. However, if Mr J and Ms J remain unhappy, they can consider making a further 
complaint to AXA. If they are unhappy with its response, they have the option to bring it to 
our service to consider.
Our service and its role
I appreciate Mr J and Ms J have strong opinions about what it expects our service to do, but 
I must also remind them our service is not a regulator, so does not have the power to punish 
or fine a financial business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its been agreed Mr J has an insurable interest in the property and AXA have said it 
will now consider the claim.
But the claim was initially declined and having reviewed the information available, I 
dont think it was fair to do so. The grant of probate confirms Mr J was an executor of 
the will so did have an insurable interest in the property and this was information 
that was available to AXA at the time.
As a result, the progress of any potential repairs has been delayed, and caused 
conditions at the property to worsen. Mr J and Ms J said this has caused 
considerable impact and strain on their family. And I think this was avoidable.
Considering the information available to me, I think our investigators 
recommendation of £400 fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused for 
the time period Im able to consider in this complaint. Mr J and Ms J have asked for 
AXA to provide a written apology, and in the circumstances, I think this is a 
reasonable request. 
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should pay Mr J and Ms J £400 compensation. It should also Mr J 
and Ms J with a written apology.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr J and Ms Js complaint.
To put things right I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman