DRN-2225267
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 2002. Ms H says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her 
PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Ms Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out. I say this because to take out PPI she would have needed to select it on her card 
application form. And although the copy of the form BoS gave us is very difficult to read, 
given what I know about these sales, I think Ms H would have been given the opportunity 
to look over the form in the meeting before signing it. Details about the policy would have 
then been sent to her the charges would also have appeared on all her monthly 
statements until she cancelled the policy in 2007. 
BoS has confirmed to us that recommended the PPI to Ms H, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for her. And the evidence about Ms Hs circumstances at the time, shows 
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example Ms H was 
eligible for the cover and I can also see that Ms H had some sick pay, but the evidence 
Ive seen suggested the PPI would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. Given 
how long shed been in her job, I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than her 
redundancy entitlement as well. Ms H told us that shed have been entitled to a death in 
service payment from her employer. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate 
event of her death. She wouldnt have been paid a death in service benefit if she was off 
sick or if she lost her job. 
There was nothing about Ms Hs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect her ability to claim. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms H as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms H would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Ms Hs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Ms H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Ms Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Ms Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Ms Hs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Ms Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Ms H should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Ms H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Ms H wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Ms Hs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Ms Hs case was less than half the 
cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Ms H about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Ms H unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Ms H back any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Ms H some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Ms H as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMy decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Ms Hs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Ms H paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms H. Bank 
of Scotland plc should now make arrangements to pay Ms H if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December  2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman