DRN-3444625
The complaint
Ms C complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) irresponsibly granted her hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2016, Ms C acquired a used car financed by way of a hire purchase agreement from 
BMF. Ms C was required to make an initial acceptance fee payment of £263.86 followed by 
a further 59 monthly repayments of £263.86, plus a final payment of £413.86. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £16,255.46.
Ms C says that BMF didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. BMF didnt agree. It said it carried out an 
assessment of her ability to meet the repayments when she applied for the finance. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought BMF didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement. Ms C didnt agree and 
provided us with further information about loans she was paying. She also clarified that 
some payments being made to her bank account were from another account holding 
compensation funds from a legal claim. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
From what Ive seen BMF didnt verify Ms Cs income before approving the finance  it only 
asked her to confirm her income verbally. Given the overall size of the borrowing, the 
monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate 
for BMF to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
Ive also not seen evidence that BMF asked Ms C about her expenditure. Without knowing 
what Ms Cs regular committed expenditure was BMF wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Ms C would have told BMF had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think BMF needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Ms Cs 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application as well as the further 
income and expenditure information Ms C sent our adjudicator after hed provided his views 
on the complaint. I can see that Ms Cs regular committed monthly expenditure, which 
included a number of loan repayments, averaged out at around £1,800-1,900 per month and 
that her average income was around £2,400 per month. In calculating this figure, Ive kept in 
mind that these statements do not necessarily show all of Ms Cs daily costs and living 
expenses. On the other hand, whilst I note that Ms C was making frequent use of her 
overdraft, Ive also seen that she appears to have had income available for discretionary 
purchases. I say this because when assessing her ability to make repayments, I would have 
expected BMF only to be concerned with what was essential and/or committed expenditure. 
Taking these figures into account, therefore, it appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Ms C. For this reason, Im not persuaded that BMF acted unfairly in approving 
the finance. 
Finally, Ive seen that Ms C raised a query about the cost of the car as shown on her 
agreement not being the same as the price shed thought shed seen advertised and agreed 
to. I see that she raised this with BMF who said in their final response letter that the dealer 
had so far been unable to trace the paperwork to account for the price difference. So its not 
something Ive been able to consider in this decision. That means it remains open to Ms C to 
raise this issue as a separate complaint with her broker or BMF should she wish to. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman