DRN-1645177
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In March 2002 Mr F took out a loan with Santander to buy a car, and the bank recommended 
he take out PPI to protect the loan repayments. Mr F and his representative say the PPI was 
mis-sold.
The loan was for £15,000 and was to be repaid over 60 months. The policy provided cover in 
the event that Mr F wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. It cost 
£52.19 and in the event of a successful claim it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £357.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagreed so the complaint 
comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have to tell Mr F that 
I think the adjudicator has reached the right outcome here. And I think they set out the 
position clearly so theres very little I can usefully add to what theyve already said.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case. And Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint, and Ill explain why.
Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of all the documents completed when Mr F 
applied for the loan, but its provided samples of the loan application he wouldve had to 
complete to get it. On balance, I think its unlikely that Mr F couldve got the loan without 
completing that form.
The application form had a section relating to PPI. And it gave customers a choice about 
taking it; they could select the Yes box or the No box  each was equally prominent. And 
the form required Mr F to either select or decline the cover. And details of the PPI were also 
set out on the loan agreement that Mr F actually signed in March 2002. So Im satisfied the 
PPI was optional  Mr F had a choice about whether to take PPI. 
Santander says it advised Mr F to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because: 
-           Mr F was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. And it doesnt look like he would have been caught by any of the conditions that 
limited the policys main benefits such as those affecting self-employed people or people 
with pre-existing medical conditions  he told us he was employed and in good health. So he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the policy.
 
-           Mr F says he wouldnt have received any work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident and he also told us he had no other means to pay his loan 
payments if he wasnt working  he had no savings. But, he was taking on a significant new 
financial liability, so it wasnt unsuitable of Santander to recommend this policy to Mr F. 
 
-           The loan agreement set out what the policy would cost each month  and Mr F 
signed it. So I think Mr F wouldve known how much he would be paying for it. And as it was 
a regular monthly policy it could be cancelled without charge or penalty if Mr F decided he no 
longer wanted the policy or could no longer afford it.
 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. Mr F wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions or limitations. So, I think its 
unlikely Mr F would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman