DRN-3992924
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) hasnt 
offered a fair settlement following a claim under its Property Owners Policy. 
Mr P, a director of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
comments and actions of K and Mr Ps representative, as being those of Mr P.  
Any reference to Aviva, includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr P took out a Property Owners Policy. On 18 February 2022, Mr P contacted Aviva to 
make a claim for storm damage. Aviva said it would arrange for a surveyor to assess the 
damage. Avivas appointed surveyor attended on 27 February 2022.
Mr P said he was led to believe by the surveyor that repairs could take months if he opted for 
Avivas approved repairer to carry out the repair. Mr P therefore arranged his own quote with 
a local tradesman to prevent further damage and had the roof repaired. Mr P was unhappy 
with the cash settlement offered by Aviva in settlement of the repairs and so raised a 
complaint.
In Avivas response to Mr Ps complaint about the cash settlement offer, Aviva said it would 
appoint an approved contractor to carry out the repairs. But in the event the repairs had 
already been carried out, it offered to appoint a loss adjuster to carry out a dispute resolution 
report (Ill refer to this as DRR) for a second opinion on the costs involved. Aviva also 
pointed out that the policy doesnt cover any betterment to the roof.  
As the repairs had been completed, Aviva instructed a loss adjuster for a DRR. The loss 
adjuster agreed that the settlement offer from Aviva was fair. 
Mr P complained. He said Aviva should settle the claim for the amount he paid for the work. 
He said the roof repair was urgent and that it was therefore reasonable that Mr P carried out 
the repairs without prior authorisation from Aviva. He said Aviva should cover the full cost of 
repairs. 
As Aviva didnt agree, the complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked at 
what happened, he didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he concluded that Avivas 
settlement offer was fair.
Mr P didnt agree, so the complaint was referred to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that Im not an expert in surveying repairs or the associated costs 
and so I rely on the expert evidence provided by both parties to decide if its fair. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a valid claim for storm damage. The issue 
was whether it was reasonable for Mr P to arrange the work himself and whether Aviva 
should settle the claim at the cost to itself or to Mr P. 
So, Ive thought about Mr P arranging the work himself. Mr P said the work was urgent due 
to the extent of the damage and further water ingress. He said Avivas surveyor said it could 
take months to arrange an approved repairer. On the night following the surveyors visit, 
there was further rainfall resulting in more water ingress and damage to personal items. Mr P 
said he contacted Aviva to let them know. Aviva said it couldnt make any further 
assessments as it was still waiting for the surveyors report. 
Mr P said there was no indication of when Aviva could arrange for its approved repairer to 
carry out the work, he contacted a local tradesman for a quote. When he tried to obtain a 
quote, he could only find one company to provide a quote as it was a busy period. When the 
loss adjuster visited to complete the DRR, Mr P told him that his repairer attended around 
2/3 March 2022 to erect the scaffolding. But repairs couldnt commence straight away so a 
tarpaulin was put over the roof in the first instance to prevent any further damage. When 
repairs did commence, they were completed within a week.  
I understand that the uncertainty of not knowing whats happening with the claim would have 
been very worrying for Mr P but when an insurer is dealing with a claim, I think some time 
lag is expected, as weve seen here, and I think thats reasonable.
Its not in dispute that Mr P went ahead with the repairs without Avivas consent. And, 
although he said the repairs were urgent, they didnt commence right away in any event. 
Mr P said temporary measures were put in place by his repairer to prevent further damage. 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to show that Mr P attempted to contact Aviva about 
his quote at any point before or after receiving a quote from his repairer to get authorisation 
for repairs. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Aviva led Mr P to believe he could 
get the repairs done and it would reimburse him for the costs. 
Its hard to say now what would have happened if Mr P had contacted Aviva to discuss 
arranging his own repairs. I think its fair to say Aviva would have had the opportunity to 
review the quote and provide consent, or to discuss the option of having temporary repairs 
completed while waiting for its surveyor and about any risks with him getting the work done, 
such as issues with it being able to validate the claim on the basis on which it would normally 
pay any costs. From the evidence I have reviewed, Im satisfied that Aviva wasnt given this 
opportunity as Mr P hadnt informed Aviva he was repairing the damage.  
So, Ive also thought about what Aviva should pay as a cash settlement. Aviva has said the 
cash settlement should be at the cost to itself. Mr P wants it paid at the amount the work 
cost him. I have reviewed the costs of the repairs provided by both parties. The difference 
between both quotes is over £7,000 which is a significant difference. Mr P has suggested the 
increased cost was due to the urgency of the repairs. 
Given Ive already said I think Avivas position was prejudiced as a result of Mr P going 
ahead with the repairs without telling Aviva, it wasnt able to explain any of the issues around 
Mr P proceeding with the work, including how it was likely to consider any costs. In the 
circumstances, I think Aviva has acted fairly by offering to pay the cost it would have 
incurred in carrying out the repairs.
Both parties have provided a quote for repairs with a breakdown of cost. Avivas quote has also been reviewed by a loss adjuster for a second opinion when carrying out the DRR. The 
conclusion reached was that the settlement offered by Aviva was fair.
Ive considered whether the offer made by Aviva is fair. Ive looked at what was discussed 
about the roofing work. Aviva told Mr P there had been some betterment to the roof. Mr P 
seemed to agree with this. He also accepted that the new dry ridge being installed was not 
an insured aspect of the work. Aviva didnt need to pay for betterment or for the dry ridge 
installed, as part of the claim.
The roofing work was made up of two elements. The scaffolding and the roof work itself. The 
loss adjuster that completed the DRR raised concerns over the extent of the work 
completed. The surveyor said he didnt think such extensive repairs were required for the 
damage claimed. In particular, he questioned whether the led flashing around the edges of 
the roof was needed. Furthermore, he said that Mr Ps invoice for repair didnt specify the 
amount of roof and hip tiles to be renewed. Ive considered the evidence provided by both 
parties, including the damage to the roof and the location and I havent currently seen 
anything that persuades me the extent of the repairs were reasonable. 
If Mr P has further evidence from his repairer to demonstrate that more work than that 
authorised by Aviva was required as a result of the storm damage, he can provide this to 
Aviva for further review. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, but for the reasons I have explained, 
Im persuaded that Avivas offer to settle the claim for £10,031.20 (minus the £250 policy 
excess) is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman