DRN-4132751
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement hes been paid by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited for a 
claim he made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has travel insurance through his employers group scheme. 
In September 2022, Mr S was travelling abroad. Unfortunately, he left a watch in his hotel 
room and it couldnt be found. So he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the 
purchase price of the watch - £2350.
AXA asked Mr S to provide a police report to evidence his loss, in line with the policy terms. 
However, Mr S hadnt reported the loss to the police abroad. Ultimately, AXA accepted the 
claim without requiring a police report. It paid Mr S £350 in line with the single item limit set 
out under the Personal belongings and money section of the policy.
Mr S was unhappy with the settlement hed been paid. He noted that the policy had defined 
personal baggage and valuables separately and distinctly. He felt the single article limit set 
out in the Table of Benefits - which AXA had relied upon when it settled his claim - referred 
only to personal baggage. He pointed out that the Table of Benefits didnt include a limit for 
valuables and therefore, he said hed understood that cover for valuables was unlimited. He 
added that hed taken out the policy on the understanding that valuables cover wasnt 
subject to a limit.
But AXA maintained its stance and so Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms made 
it sufficiently clear that valuables would also be subject to a single item limit of £350. So he 
concluded that AXA had settled Mr S claim fairly.
Mr S disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He maintained that baggage and 
valuables were given different and distinct meanings. So therefore, he felt it was reasonable 
to conclude that valuables werent baggage and that baggage was its own unrelated 
category of insured item. He noted that single article limit hadnt been defined. He said the 
main purpose of the policy had been to cover items which would all be classed as valuables 
and which were all worth more than £350. Hed read the policy wording in full before he 
travelled and nothing had put him on notice that cover was limited to £350. He considered 
AXA had retroactively tried to define his watch as personal baggage in order to limit its 
liability. Hed paid for the insurance in good faith for many years, but the contract had 
contained incomplete wording.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think AXA has settled his claim 
fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of the group policy and the available 
evidence, to decide whether AXA handled Mr S claim fairly.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr S 
employers contract with AXA. Mr S made a claim for a stolen watch and so I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for AXA to consider his claim under Section 4  Personal 
belongings and money. This states:
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Table of Benefits for the following items if 
they are accidentally lost, damaged or stolen whilst on your trip: 
(a) baggage 
(b) valuables 
(c) replacement of essential items if lost in transit due to carrier error during the outward 
journey for more than 12 hours 
(d) personal money (excluding cash) 
(e) cash 
(f) replacement of important documents. 
The maximum we will pay you for any one item, pair or set of items under this section 
is shown in the Table of Benefits as the single article limit. (My emphasis added.)
The Table of Benefits sets out the following limits:
Personal baggage 
Single item limit £350
Up to a maximum of: £1500
It also includes separate limits for personal money and loss of passport. There is no 
separate limit for valuables shown in the Table of Benefits.
I accept Mr S point that the policy terms includes separate definitions for baggage and 
valuables and that the definition of baggage specifically excludes valuable items. A watch 
falls squarely within AXAs definition of a valuable item. And as Ive acknowledged above, 
the Table of Benefits doesnt include a specific valuables limit. This is in contrast with other 
travel insurance policies available on the market, which often do include a distinct valuables 
limit. I appreciate it may well have been helpful had AXA included a separate limit in the 
Table of Benefits.
However, I need to consider the clarity of the contract terms as a whole. And in my view, 
section four does make it sufficiently clear that valuable items are subject to the single item 
limit. Thats because the section clearly includes both baggage and valuables in the list of 
the things AXA has chosen to cover. Immediately underneath the list, AXA has stated that 
the most it will pay for any one item is shown in the Table of Benefits as the single article 
limit. So I think the policy is clear enough that the single item limit applies to more than 
simply claims for items defined as personal baggage. In my view then, AXA has made it 
clear enough that claims for valuables too will be subject to the single item limit and that the limit doesnt refer only to personal baggage claims. Id add too that the only reference to a 
single item limit in the Table of Benefits is under the personal baggage heading. 
I agree with Mr S that the term single article or item limit hasnt been defined in the contract 
terms. Where a term hasnt been defined, we will generally consider the plain and ordinary 
meaning of that term or phrase. I think that most reasonable policyholders would understand 
single article or item limit to be a limit which applies to one, single item  such as one watch 
or piece of jewellery. So I dont think that the lack of such a definition means that this term of 
the policy is ambiguous or that it should be interpreted in Mr S favour.
It's clear that Mr S feels strongly that given AXA hasnt set out a separate valuables limit in 
the policy; unlimited valuables cover should apply. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to conclude that AXA intended to cover all valuables without any applicable limit 
though. Or that its fair to construe the policy terms in such a way. And as Ive explained, I 
find the policy limit here is sufficiently clear for me to find that it was fair for AXA to apply the 
limit to Mr S claim.
Mr S says that the policy was taken out because hed believed that it would provide unlimited 
valuables cover. This policy is a group scheme, with the travel cover forming part of a wider 
private medical insurance policy. It doesnt appear to be a policy specifically designed to 
provide cover for business travel. And Id add that in my experience, most travel insurance 
policies do limit valuables cover and also often include single article limits. So it seems 
unlikely Mr S employer could have found a standard group travel insurance policy, which 
provided unlimited valuables cover, together with an overall group private medical and dental 
insurance package.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr S position, as I understand the settlement was 
significantly less than his loss, I find that AXA has settled his claim fairly and reasonably. So 
Im not directing it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman