DRN-2572538
The complaint
Ms L complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) have settled 
a claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020, Ms Ls car was in an accident and badly damaged. She contacted AA to raise a 
claim.
Soon after, AA said the car was beyond economic repair and it was written off. They offered 
Ms L a cash settlement of £3,537. Ms L disagreed this was enough for a replacement car of 
the same specification, so she raised a complaint to AA. 
AA reviewed the valuation but said the amount they had offered was the market value of the 
car. As this was what they were required to pay under the policy, they said they wouldnt 
increase the offer. Unhappy with their response, Ms L referred the complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the amount AA had 
offered Ms L was in keeping with the values on the motor trade guides, and so AA had 
settled the claim as outlined in the policy terms and condition. Ms L disagreed and said shes 
been unable to replace her car with the settlement offered. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to value Ms Ls car. This services approach is to consider whether AA have 
settled the claim fairly and reasonably, and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
To do this, Ive looked at the offer AA made and the terms of Ms Ls policy.
Like most policies Ive seen, AA can decide whether to repair or replace the car  and the 
most they will pay towards the claim is the market value of the car. And market value is 
usually considered to be the cost of replacing the vehicle with one of the same make, model, 
age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
We have an established approach to complaints about car valuations. We look at motor 
trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles in order to consider a fair market value. We 
find these guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research and likely selling 
figures. They also refer to advertised and auction prices to work out the likely selling price for 
the same vehicle at the time of the incident. This considers all specifications of the car as 
well as any extras and the mileage. 
Ive checked three motor trade guides for the value of Ms Ls car at the time of the accident 
and they produced the following valuations: CAP: £3,075, Cazana: £3,461 and Glass: 
£3,980.
AA have offered Ms L £3,537 which is more than the average of the three values given by 
the motor trade guides. So, from what I can see, the amount AA have offered Ms L is 
reasonable and in keeping with the policy terms. 
Ms L told us shes been unable to replace her car with the settlement offered and shes 
provided some adverts for similar cars. Ive carefully considered these, but Im not 
persuaded the adverts reflect the market value of the vehicle. I say this because quite often 
the vehicle may be sold for less than its advertised at, and any differences in the mileage or 
other specifications of the advertised car can significantly affect the value. I dont find these 
as persuasive as the values given by the motor trade guides. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that AA have offered Ms L the market value of her car as 
outlined in the policy terms. So, I dont think they need to offer her anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman