DRN-3288793
The complaint
Mrs B complained that Vitality Life Limited acted unfairly by paying her a reduced sum under 
a term assurance policy held by her late partner.
What happened
In November 2016 Mrs Bs partner, who Ill refer to as Mr C, applied for £150,000 life cover 
with Vitality through an independent financial adviser. Cover started on 1 January 2017 and 
the policy was placed in trust for Mrs B as the sole beneficiary.
Mr C tragically died in September 2019. Mrs B made a claim to Vitality in October 2019. 
While assessing the claim, Vitality became aware Mr C had been investigated for, and 
subsequently diagnosed with, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) before 
applying for cover. It thought Mr C should have told it about the tests and investigations hed 
had, as well as his diagnosis, when he applied for cover. It also said hed failed to disclose 
that he worked off-shore as a scaffolder. Vitality said it would have charged Mr C 
considerably more in premiums if it had known about his diagnosis and that he worked 
off-shore. In view of this, Vitality settled the claim proportionately and paid Mrs B £51,968.73, 
plus a small sum of interest for the delay in paying the claim.
Mrs B complained to Vitality about its handling of the claim and its decision to reduce the
claim pay-out. She explained that although Mr C had undergone tests for COPD, he was
completely asymptomatic and had been discharged by his consultant by the time he applied
for cover. She said he was fit and healthy and had been well enough to continue working in
a highly strenuous manual job. She said hed answered the application questions honestly
and to the best of his knowledge at the time.
Vitality maintained that it was right to reduce the sum payable under the policy on the basis
that Mr C had failed to take reasonable care when applying for cover. But it accepted it
hadnt told Mrs B about the actual claim pay-out as soon as it should have. It offered £200
compensation for the inconvenience shed suffered as a result of this.
Mrs B remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He concluded Vitality had acted fairly and
in line with the relevant guiding legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mrs B disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final
decision. She maintained that Mr C had answered the application questions honestly and to
the best of his knowledge. She said he hadnt understood that hed been diagnosed with
COPD and so couldnt reasonably have disclosed this on the application. She also disputed
that he worked off-shore at the time of application.
The complaint was then referred to me for consideration. Having looked at the information
provided, I asked Mrs B to confirm Mr Cs occupation at the time of applying for cover. While
it was clear from the evidence hed worked off-shore at multiple points during his career,
there was also evidence to suggest he may have been working on-shore at the point he
applied for cover. I needed to know Mr Cs actual occupation at the point of application in
order to determine if there had, in fact, been a misrepresentation on this point.
Mrs B provided evidence of a six-month tenancy agreement for a property in
London that Mr C had signed in August 2016. This was further supported by an entry within
his GP records from September 2016 which said [Mr C is] going away today until 
Christmas, requesting [] medication to last. Is only working in London. This contrasted
with earlier GP records that noted he worked off-shore.
Taking account of all the evidence, I wasnt persuaded Vitality had demonstrated Mr C had
misrepresented his occupation at the point of application. I considered it was therefore
unreasonable for it to make retrospective changes to the underwriting of the policy  and in 
turn to the claim value - on the basis that he had.
I wrote to Vitality and asked that it review its underwriting decision and remove the
loading that applied to Mr C being an off-shore scaffolder.
Vitality agreed and recalculated the claim value accordingly. It confirmed Mrs B was entitled 
to the increased sum of £59,917.27. It agreed to add 8% simple interest to the balance that 
was left owing to her (£7,948.54). It also offered her a further £500 compensation in 
recognition of the distress prolonging this element of the claim has caused her.
At this point, as Id reached a different outcome to the investigator, I shared my provisional 
findings with Vitality and Mrs B so both parties had the opportunity to make any further 
comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings were: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I consider Vitality should increase
the claim value as outlined above, on the basis that Mr C did not misrepresent his
occupation at the point of application. But Im satisfied it acted reasonably by reducing the
claim value on the basis that Mr C failed to take reasonable care when he answered
questions concerning his health at the point of application.
I know this will be very disappointing and upsetting to Mrs B. I appreciate this complaint has
arisen from some very difficult circumstances, and I dont underestimate the emotional toll
this case has taken on her and her family. But Id like to reassure her that I havent taken this
decision lightly. Ive carefully considered the circumstances of this case, taking into account 
the relevant legislation, and what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. I hope this can bring her some comfort, albeit not the answer she hoped for.
Mrs B has made detailed submissions to support her position on this complaint. Ive read
and considered everything shes said and sent in  but I dont intend to respond in similar
detail. I dont mean this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our
service. So, if I dont comment on a particular observation or piece of evidence, it isnt
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to
explain my decision.
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering
into a consumer insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or
misleading). Whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is to be determined in the lightof all the relevant circumstances  this may include how clear and specific the insurers
questions were as well as the consumers knowledge and understanding at the time. If the
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately it sets out the
remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
For completeness, I should note that while Vitality initially considered Mr C had
misrepresented his occupation, by stating he was a scaffolder rather than an off-shore
scaffolder, as outline above, it now accepts that he made an accurate disclosure. So, I
havent considered this issue further here. But I have explained what impact Vitalitys initial
decision had on Mrs B below.
In this section Ive considered whether Vitality acted reasonably in concluding that Mr C
misrepresented his state of health at the point of application.
I understand Mr C completed the application in person with a broker. Ive not been provided
with the actual application form Mr C completed. But Vitality was not directly involved in the
sale, and so cant be held responsible if there were any problems with this process. But from
my understanding of the complaint, Mrs B doesnt dispute the relevant questions were asked
or that the answers received were those provided by Mr C.
Having completed the application with the broker, Vitality sent Mr C a copy of the questions
and answers hed provided and asked that he check the document for accuracy and
completeness. Within this document Mr C was reminded to carefully check the answers
hed given. The document also detailed a Duty of Disclosure Declaration that Mr C had
agreed to by completing the application. This stated:
I/We the applicant(s) declare that, to the best of my/our knowledge and belief, the 
information on this form is true and complete and agree that the terms of this application and
declaration [] will be deemed to form part of any resultant contracts []
I/We understand that failure to do so may result in the contract being declared void, and that
a claim for the proceeds may not be paid.
In view of this, Im satisfied Vitality did enough to draw Mr Cs attention to the importance of
answering all questions fully and accurately, and the potential consequences if he didnt do
so.
As part of the application Mr C was asked questions about his health in the last five years,
which included:
 Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the following
in the last 5 years:
Any respiratory or lung disorder, including asthma, bronchitis, COPD (COAD), emphysema, 
bronchiectasis or sleep apnoea?
Mr C answered no. But his medical records show hed been undergoing investigations into
his lung function since 2013 and had been diagnosed with moderate COPD in 2016. As this
was within five years of him completing the application, I think Mr C should reasonably have
told Vitality about this.
I understand that Mrs B believes strongly that Mr C answered the questions honestly and to
the best of his ability. She noted that the investigations were requested following a routinespirometry test carried out by his employers occupational health team. Shes explained that
he wasnt unwell at the time and he remained asymptomatic throughout the investigations
and after the diagnosis, which is well documented in his medical records. She also noted
that despite the diagnosis Mr C had continued to work in a physically demanding job which
required him to be certified as medically fit.
I also appreciate that thered initially been some uncertainty regarding Mr Cs diagnosis  in
2014 a clinic letter referenced that Mr C may have had asthma or atopy to grass pollen -
but Im satisfied that by March 2016 a diagnosis of COPD had been confirmed, even though
he remained asymptomatic.
Ive given careful consideration to Mrs Bs suggestion that Mr C was unaware of his
diagnosis. Shes provided a letter from Mr Cs Consultant Respiratory Physician, who Ill call
Dr A, which states During the period in question, [Mr C] did not receive a copy of each clinic
letter as this was not mandatory at the time [] I suspect [Mr C] may have not fully
understood or even forgotten the diagnosis as he had no symptoms at the time associated
with a diagnosis of COPD. While I accept this letter seems supportive, I have to consider it
against an earlier letter, also written by Dr A at the time of Mr Cs diagnosis in March 2016,
which states He understands that he has moderate to severe airflow (sic) or COPD. GP
records from July 2016 also suggest the diagnosis was likely discussed when Mr C
approached his GP for smoking cessation advice.
But even if I accept that Mr C didnt understand or remember hed been specifically
diagnosed with COPD, I dont think I could reasonably say he didnt understand or
appreciate he had any respiratory or lung disorder. His lung function had been monitored
since 2013 due to abnormal spirometry readings. Hed also been asked to measure his own
peak flow at home and to keep a diary. Hed also been reviewed by a respiratory clinic on
several occasions and been referred to a consultant respiratory physician.
Vitalitys question specifically asked if Mr C had been diagnosed with any respiratory or lung
disorder, including [] COPD which he had. The questions didnt ask for an assessment on
Mr Cs overall health. Nor did they suggest that answers could be omitted if he was
considered to be in good health.
So, overall, while I appreciate Mr Cs tests and investigations didnt follow a typical pathway,
as he didnt have symptoms or think he was unwell, I think Vitality was reasonably entitled to
conclude hed failed to accurately declare that he had a respiratory or lung disorder.
Mr C was also asked:
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have
you undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? If so, for what
condition (or suspected condition)?
Again, Mr C answered no to this question. But the evidence shows hed undergone 
investigations into a bowel problem in mid-2015, which included him having blood tests and
undergoing a colonoscopy. While I can see his symptoms had settled by early 2016, hed 
nevertheless undergone an investigation within the two years before applying for cover. So, 
again I think he should have disclosed this to Vitality.
Overall, while I appreciate Mrs Bs strength of feeling on this point, given the clear questions
Vitality asked, I think it reasonably concluded that Mr C misrepresented his health when he
applied for cover. The investigations Mr C underwent were extensive and recent enough that
I think he ought to have been able to recall them and disclose them in response to the clear
questions asked.What would Vitality have done differently?
Vitality classified Mr Cs misrepresentations as careless. And I think this is reasonable.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr C deliberately or recklessly withheld information from Vitality.
But equally, I cant say he took reasonable care as he failed to answer at least two questions
accurately.
Under CIDRA, when its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the
insurer can take whatever action it would have taken if the correct answers had been given
at the point of application.
Vitality has demonstrated, with relevant underwriting evidence, that had Mr C told it hed
been diagnosed with COPD it would have added a loading to the policy - in practice this
would have meant hed have been charged significantly more for the cover he took out.
Vitality has also shown that if Mr C had disclosed his lung or respiratory disorder in some
other way  for example if hed described it as an abnormal spirometry test or an airflow
obstruction - it would have sought a targeted report from his GP to better understand his
condition. Had it done so, the GP would most likely have confirmed that Mr C had been
diagnosed with COPD and again Vitality would have increased the premium payable.
Similarly, had Mr C disclosed that hed undergone investigations relating to bowel problems,
Vitality would have sought a targeted report from his GP to better understand his diagnosis.
It would also have asked the GP if Mr C had any other conditions that would be likely to
affect his future mortality or morbidity. In these circumstances, its most likely that the GP
would have again disclosed that Mr C had been diagnosed with COPD, as it is a condition
that is well known to increase an individuals chance of mortality.
As such, Im satisfied that had Mr C answered either of the relevant questions correctly
Vitality would have become aware of his diagnosis of COPD. Once it was aware of the
diagnosis Vitality would have increased the premium it wouldve charged him for cover.
CIDRA sets out that in situations like this, where cover would have been offered but at a
higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.
Vitality has demonstrated that it followed the method set out in CIDRA when calculating the
proportionate amount to pay Mrs B.
I appreciate why Mrs B may feel Mr Cs past medical history should be discounted, as his
death was unexpected and unrelated to any of his existing health conditions. But CIDRA
sets out clearly that Vitality is entitled to make changes to the policy to reflect what it would
have done had Mr C answered the questions correctly at the point of application. There is no
requirement for the misrepresented facts to relate to the cause for claim.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
Vitality has offered to pay Mrs B £700 compensation - £200 to reflect the delay in confirming
the claim pay-out and a further £500 to reflect the distress she experienced as a result of
Vitality incorrectly stating Mr C had misrepresented his occupation. Having carefully
considered the situation, I dont think £700 is fair compensation given the impact Vitalitys
errors had on Mrs B.
Having spoken to Mrs B, its evident that shes been extremely distressed by the events
following Mr Cs death and the subsequent problems shes encountered claiming on this
policy. And sadly, Mrs B has suffered a decline in her own mental health as a result of theseevents.
Vitality is not solely responsible for the way Mrs B has been feeling. Clearly Mr Cs death
would have been hugely upsetting by itself. It would also no doubt have been extremely
worrying for Mrs B to discover that she was entitled to a smaller claim pay-out than she
originally expected. But as Ive found Vitality acted fairly and reasonably in reducing the
claim pay-out in relation to Mr Cs health, it follows that it doesnt need to compensate Mrs B
for the upset shes experienced as a result of this decision.
But Vitality did make mistakes when considering the claim and communicating the outcome.
It incorrectly concluded that Mr C had misrepresented his occupation. While it identified this
alleged misrepresentation in May 2020, and recalculated the claim pay-out accordingly, it
didnt tell Mrs B that Mr Cs occupation had been a factor in its claims assessment. Vitalitys
letters to Mrs B only referred to the medical misrepresentations. As a result, she was not
able to challenge Vitalitys conclusion until the case was referred to our service.
As part of my investigation, I asked Mrs B for evidence of Mr Cs occupation at the time of
completing the application. While Mrs B was happy to oblige, it was clear from speaking with
her over subsequent days that she found the process of revisiting certain details of Mr Cs
life extremely distressing. She spoke to me on multiple occasions and explained that shed
spent hours trawling through records and had lost sleep trying to find the information
required to disprove Vitalitys allegations.
While I accept Mrs B may always have been asked to provide evidence to prove Mr Cs
occupation at the point of application, I consider she found this more stressful and upsetting
given how late it came in the process.
Mrs B has also explained that shes experienced serious financial difficulties since the claim
was paid. Shes explained that she hasnt been able to keep up with certain financial
commitments shed entered into jointly with Mr C. As a result, shes had to make certain
decisions about her finances, including returning a caravan that had been purchased on
finance. Its clear these decisions have caused Mrs B additional distress, upset and
embarrassment at what was already a difficult time.
Had Vitality not incorrectly reduced the claim pay-out in respect of Mr Cs occupation, Mrs B
would have received nearly £8,000 more by way of settlement of the claim. While its not
possible to know exactly what Mrs B would have done had she been paid the correct sum
assured in June 2020, she has lost the opportunity to make those decisions herself.
In the specific circumstances, I think Mrs B has suffered substantial distress, inconvenience
and embarrassment as a result of Vitalitys claims handling. While I agree that Vitality should
add interest on to the further claim pay-out thats due to her, I think it should also increase its
overall compensation award to £1,500. This includes the £200 offered to Mrs B in 
June 2020.
My provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and direct Vitality Life Limited to pay Mrs B:
the balance owed on the policy following its amended underwriting decision 
(£59,917.27 - £51,968.73 = £7,948.54),
8% simple interest (less any tax properly deductible) per year from the date the 
original claim was paid (29 May 2020) to the date of settlement,
£1,500 compensation. If Vitality Life Limited has already paid Mrs B £200 it can 
deduct this from the final sum.Responses to my provisional decision
Vitality acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further 
to add. 
Mrs B disagreed with my provisional decision. In short, she said:
Mr C had answered the questions to the best of his knowledge and ability at the time. 
Shes pointed to references within his medical records which state patient does not 
need to be informed and evidence that the COPD diagnosis had been discussed 
between medical professionals but not shared with Mr C. She has said it was 
impossible for Mr C to disclose something he didnt know. 
Mr C did not know he had COPD. She says he believed he had only been given 
smoking cessation advice during his consultations. Mrs B has said from her 
experience Mr C did not present as if he had COPD and showed no deterioration in 
his overall health or lung function between 2014 and the time of his death. 
Mr C hadnt undergone investigations in 2015. She said he had an examination due 
to suspected haemorrhoids. 
Vitalitys decision to withhold approximately £90,000 of the sum assured is unfair and 
disproportionate. 
She feels the £1,500 compensation does not fairly compensate her for the damage 
shes suffered to her mental health since Vitality settled her claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given very careful consideration to the additional points Mrs B has raised. But 
having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I know this will be very upsetting to Mrs B. I understand that the outcome of this case has 
wide reaching implications for her. I want to reassure her that I havent taken this decision 
lightly, and Ive given very careful consideration to everything shes told us in response to my 
provisional decision. But having done so, I cant say Vitality should do any more than its 
already agreed to do. I will address the key concerns she raised in response to my 
provisional decision in turn. 
Was Mr C aware of his COPD diagnosis?
I know a central strand to Mrs Bs appeal is that Mr C did not know about his diagnosis of 
COPD and was therefore unable to disclose it in response to the following application 
question:
 
Apart from any condition you have already told us about, have you had any of the following
in the last 5 years:
Any respiratory or lung disorder, including asthma, bronchitis, COPD (COAD),
emphysema, bronchiectasis or sleep apnoea? 
In considering this point, Ive weighed up the medical evidence from the time Mr C was 
under review by the respiratory medicine clinic (2014 to 2016) along with a letter from Dr A 
from July 2020, as well as Mrs Bs testimony regarding her recollection and understanding of 
Mr Cs state of health.  Its clear from the evidence that Mr C was diagnosed with COPD in 2016, having been 
reviewed over several years in the respiratory medicine clinic. Its also clear that during this 
time he was asymptomatic and didnt require medication. I can understand from Mrs Bs 
personal experience why she has difficulty accepting that Mr C had COPD as his 
presentation was atypical. But ultimately, I have no reason to doubt the medical evidence. 
As such, I must accept that he had a respiratory or lung disorder, and specifically COPD.  
Mrs B is adamant that Mr C was unaware of his diagnosis. Unfortunately, the evidence 
concerning this is less clear. 
Mrs B has pointed to a letter dated 24 May 2014 which records that a conversation took 
place between Dr A and another consultant regarding the results of Mr Cs spirometry tests. 
Mrs B has suggested that Mr C was unaware of the issues noted in this letter as he wasnt 
party to the conversation and wasnt provided with a copy of the letter. While Ive given 
careful consideration to Mrs Bs concerns on this point, Ive also noted that the letter details 
I have explained the above to [Mr C], suggesting that he was kept informed of the medical 
opinions at the time. 
There are other references within Mr Cs medical records to suggest he did have some 
knowledge and understanding of his condition. A letter from Dr A in March 2016 said Mr C 
understands that he has severe airflow or COPD. His GP records also suggest the 
diagnosis was likely discussed with him again in July 2016 when he sought smoking 
cessation advice. But, I can also see that a letter from Dr A in July 2020 explained that Mr C 
didnt receive copies of all the clinic letters and suggested he may not have fully understood 
or even forgotten the diagnosis as he had no symptoms at the time associated with a 
diagnosis of COPD. 
Without being able to ask Mr C directly, Ill never know what he understood about his state of 
health in 2016 when he completed the application. I must also factor in that Mr Cs 
knowledge and understanding may well have differed from that of Mrs B. So, Ive had to 
consider whether I think a reasonable person, in the same position as Mr C, would have 
known they had a respiratory or lung disorder, including COPD and I think they would. 
I say this because within the five years before applying for cover, Mr C had abnormal 
spirometry results; undergone extensive investigations into his lung function; been referred 
to a consultant respiratory physician; and attended a respiratory clinic on four occasions 
between November 2013 and March 2016. While I appreciate these medical interventions 
happened over several years, and didnt suggest any acute medical concerns, I think Mr C 
should reasonably have known there were ongoing concerns about his lung function. And 
while I could accept Mr C may not have recalled the detail of the diagnosis hed been given, 
particularly as he didnt consider himself to be unwell, I think he ought reasonably to have 
known he had a respiratory or lung disorder. And so, I think he should have disclosed this 
when applying for cover. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, had Mr C disclosed that he had a respiratory or 
lung disorder, Vitality wouldnt have offered him cover on the same terms it did. As such, I 
think Vitality was reasonably entitled to conclude hed failed to accurately declare that he 
had a respiratory or lung disorder.
Did Mr C undergo any medical investigations in 2015?
In addition to the question above, Mr C was also asked: 
Apart from anything you have already told us about in this form, within the last 2 years have
you undergone any investigation such as blood tests, scans or biopsies? If so, for whatcondition (or suspected condition)?
Mr Cs medical records show that he underwent a colonoscopy and blood tests in 2015. 
Mrs B has provided a detailed background to this, explaining that Mr C had contracted a 
bacterial infection while on holiday. He underwent a colonoscopy which confirmed a 
diagnosis of post infective irritable bowel syndrome. Unfortunately, due to an error with the 
colonoscopy, Mr C continued to suffer from pain for some time after due to an anal fissure, 
although this settled down with treatment. 
While I understand the circumstances around these medical procedures and can see why 
Mr C may not have considered it to be an ongoing health concern, I am nevertheless 
satisfied that he underwent an investigation in the two years before applying for cover. So, 
again I think he should reasonably have disclosed this on his application. Im satisfied that 
had he done so, Vitality would have obtained more medical evidence which would most 
likely have highlighted his diagnosis with COPD even if he had not disclosed it himself in 
response to the earlier question. 
What should Vitality have done differently?
I understand Mrs B feels Vitalitys decision to pay her approximately 40% of the original sum 
assured is disproportionate and has caused her significant hardship. 
I dont underestimate the impact on Mrs Bs life of receiving a significantly smaller sum 
assured than she was originally expecting. She has provided a clear picture of the financial 
difficulties she now faces. Ive been very sorry to learn of these difficulties. But Im satisfied 
that Vitality has followed the calculation set out within CIDRA (Schedule 1 Part 1 Section 8) 
when it settled the claim proportionately. So, I cant say it acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
CIDRA sets out that when settling a claim proportionately the insurer should pay a 
percentage of the sum assured, based on what percentage of the correct premium was 
actually paid. 
To put this in context, Vitality has demonstrated that had Mr C correctly disclosed his 
medical history it would have charged him a monthly premium of £141.42, instead of the 
£56.49 he actually paid. This means that Mr C paid just under 40% of the correct premium. 
As such, Vitality was only required to pay just under 40% of the original sum assured. Im 
satisfied Vitality has correctly followed this calculation when settling the claim proportionately 
and agreeing to pay Mrs B £59,917.27. 
I can understand Mrs Bs logic why she feels that Vitality should only reduce the sum 
assured by the additional premiums Mr C would have been required to pay had he fully 
disclosed his full medical history. But I must consider whats fair and reasonable to both 
parties. And I cannot say Vitality has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it has complied 
with the relevant and applicable legislation on this very point. 
Does £1,500 fairly compensate Mrs B for her trouble and upset?
Mrs B has been very candid about the impact this complaint has had on her mental health. 
Its clear that the impact of dealing with the insurance claim and ultimately receiving a 
reduced claim payment has been hugely significant. 
Id like to stress that I accept everything Mrs B has told me about the impact on her mental 
health, and her wider circumstances. Ive been very sorry to learn of the difficulties shes 
faced and continues to face. But my role is to consider whether Vitality has done anything wrong. If I find it has then I can require it to pay compensation to account for the impact of 
what it did wrong. But only what it did wrong. I cannot require a business to compensate for 
any unfortunate circumstances that resulted from its reasonable actions. 
In my provisional decision I said I was minded to direct Vitality to pay Mrs B £1,500 
compensation. This was to account for the substantial distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment that related purely to its errors in incorrectly stating Mr C had 
misrepresented his occupation, which led to it paying Mrs B £7,948.54 less than she was 
due. 
From speaking with Mrs B it is clear that her most significant and ongoing problems have 
arisen from Vitality settling her claim proportionately, which has resulted in her receiving 
approximately 40% of the overall sum assured. But, as I have concluded Vitality acted fairly 
and reasonably by settling the claim proportionately, it follows that I cannot ask it to 
compensate Mrs B for the distress this has caused, although I do not doubt this distress is 
significant. 
So while Im sympathetic to the difficult situation Mrs B finds herself in, I will not be directing 
Vitality to increase the compensation payable to her. 
Putting things right
Vitality initially wrongly concluded that Mr C had failed to accurately disclose his occupation. 
As such it paid Mrs B £7,948.54 less than she was entitled to under the policy. It also failed 
to inform her that it had reduced the claim payment as a result of Mr Cs occupation. 
As such, I have decided that it should now pay her the balance owed on the policy 
(£59,917.27 - £51,968.73 = £7,948.54). It should also add interest to this sum, to 
compensate Mrs B for the loss of use of this money. Additionally, it should also pay her a 
total of £1,500 to compensate her for the substantial distress, upset and embarrassment 
Mrs B experienced as a result of its handling of this part of her claim. 
I make no further awards against Vitality.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Vitality Life Limited to pay 
Mrs B: 
The balance owed on the policy following its amended underwriting decision 
(£59,917.27 - £51,968.73 = £7,948.54);
8% simple interest (less any tax properly deductible) per year from the date the 
original claim was paid (29 May 2020) to the date of settlement; and
£1,500 compensation. If Vitality Life Limited has already paid Mrs B £200 it can 
deduct this from the final sum.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman