DRN-2411211
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) when they 
repaid their mortgage with Charter Court Financial Services Limited (CCFS). Mr and Mrs P 
consider the amount charged was unfair because they repaid the mortgage just a couple of 
months before their fixed interest rate expired.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with CCFS in 2018, following advice from a broker. They 
borrowed around £179,000 on a capital repayment basis to be repaid over 33 years. 
When the mortgage was taken out it was on a three year fixed interest rate product of 
3.84%. There was an ERC to be paid if the mortgage was repaid within the term of the fixed 
rate product. 
In September 2019, Mr P contacted CCFS to ask about a new interest rate product. CCFS 
explained Mr P couldnt switch his interest rate while he was tied in to a fixed rate product, 
and that the ERC would reduce to 2% after the first 12 months of the product.
Mr and Mrs P complained in August 2020 that they were unhappy they would incur an ERC 
until February 2021. They were looking to redeem their mortgage in December 2020, in 
order to move to a larger property. They thought it was unfair that the ERC was more than 
the remaining payments on the mortgage during the fixed rate product and didnt think the 
2% ERC was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr P wanted CCFS to waive the 
ERC or accept the remaining monthly payments.
CCFS didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. In summary, it said the ERC was clearly 
stated in the mortgage offer and that it was a reasonable pre-estimate of its loss in line with 
the relevant regulations. It said it thought it was acting fairly and in line with the terms of the 
mortgage offer in charging the ERC, should Mr and Mrs P redeem the mortgage before the 
end of the fixed rate product.
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and didnt think the complaint 
should succeed. He was satisfied with the explanations given by CCFS to us, and the 
information it had shared with us to demonstrate the ERC costs applied to Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage equated to a reasonable pre-estimate of its costs.
Mr P disagreed. In summary, he said he thought the rules said that the pre-estimate of the 
costs were as a result of the individual customer repaying the amount due early, rather than 
costs averaged over a group of mortgages. As Mr and Mrs P had chosen to go ahead with 
the sale of their property and had repaid the mortgage before the end of the fixed rate 
period, Mr P said he wanted the ERC refunded to them plus interest to resolve this 
complaint. 
This case now comes to me to reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the terms of the mortgage offer about the ERC are clear and in line with the 
relevant regulations. In particular, I consider that clause 10 of the mortgage offer makes it 
reasonably clear that an ERC would apply if the mortgage was repaid within the three years 
of the interest rate product, and how much this would be  and, in doing so, used cash 
examples to illustrate this. 
I note the mortgage was sold by a broker in 2018, who would have explained to Mr and Mrs 
P the features of the mortgage and how it operated before they accepted the terms of the 
mortgage offer. I would have expected terms such as when an ERC would apply and how 
much this would be would have been discussed with Mr and Mrs P at that time. 
Im also satisfied that CCFS gave Mr and Mrs P clear information about the costs of the ERC 
and the time periods that would apply when Mr P contacted them during the term of the fixed 
rate to make enquiries. Mr and Mrs P havent said they didnt know there was an ERC. 
Rather that it was unfair that the ERC applied, of around £3,700 or 2% of the amount repaid, 
was unreasonably high considering Mr and Mrs P only had around a couple of months left to 
run on their fixed rate product. After that date there would have been no ERC payable. 
I note Mr and Mrs P had asked CCFS if they could continue to make the last mortgage 
payments, as if the mortgage had remained running to the end of the fixed rate, as a break 
cost of repaying the mortgage during the fixed rate period. I can see why they wanted this 
as this would have led to them paying less than the ERC as set out in the mortgage 
agreement. However, CCFS wouldnt agree to this. 
I dont think its unreasonable that CCFS wouldnt renegotiate the cost of Mr and Mrs P 
settling the mortgage early because Mr and Mrs P wouldnt wait to the end of the term of the 
fixed rate to move. Theres no suggestion in the contract that the ERC can be reviewed 
again at a later date if there are only a few months left on a fixed rate product, and theres no 
evidence to suggest CCFS led Mr and Mrs P to believe that this would be the case when 
they made enquiries about switching products.
Was the ERC a reasonable pre-estimate of cost?
Mr P has questioned whether the ERC that was applied was set at a fair and reasonable 
level. Mr P has cited some decisions published on our website which he believes are similar 
to his case. We look at each case on its individual merits. In this instance, Ive carefully 
considered whether Im satisfied the ERC was set as a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs 
to CCFS.
CCFS has shared information with us about how it has calculated its losses on a book of 
mortgages taken out around the time of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage and with a variety of 
interest rate products. It has asked us not to share this information due to the commercially 
sensitive nature of its contents. Im satisfied that its commercially sensitive data, and as 
such that its appropriate for me to receive it in confidence, as Im allowed to decide to do 
under our rules. But Im able to summarise what it shows and how this affects the outcome 
of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
When borrowers repay a mortgage early, the lender wont receive the income it was 
anticipating and needs to service its own borrowing. It can insure against that in various 
ways, but theres a cost either to having the borrowing end early  or to protect against those costs. As a result, fixed rate mortgages  not just with CCFS, but across the industry  
include a clause in the mortgage agreement which allows the borrower to exit the mortgage 
early  but only in return for paying an ERC. The purpose of the ERC is to compensate the 
lender for the early end of the fixed rate period.
Mortgage regulation includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, the rules say that an ERC 
must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres no 
restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC.
Mr P argues that the ERC should be charged based on the cost of the redemption of the 
individual mortgage. Hes quoted MCOB 12.3.1R (2), which says that firms should only 
charge an ERC which is  a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the 
customer repaying the amount due under the regulated mortgage contract before the 
contract has terminated. 
Mr P says the use of the word customer, rather than customers means that firms should 
set the ERC as a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to them of the individual mortgage 
being redeemed. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps interpretation of the guidance, but I think that clause 
needs to be read in context of the regulation as a whole. MCOB 12.3.3G goes on to state:
A firm may calculate the same level of early repayment charge for all regulated mortgage 
contracts of a similar type (for example a tranche of regulated mortgage contracts offering a 
particular fixed rate of interest), rather than on the basis of the individual regulated mortgage 
contract with the particular customer.
Im satisfied that CCFS has acted fairly, and in line with the relevant regulations, by setting 
the ERC for Mr Ps mortgage as a reasonable pre-estimate of its loss for a similar group of 
mortgages. CCFS can calculate its ERCs based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs 
of early termination of a group of mortgages  not on the actual cost, or estimated cost, of Mr 
and Mrs P ending their individual mortgage early.
In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So CCFS couldnt estimate 
in advance the costs of ending this particular mortgage early. But CCFS could estimate how 
many borrowers, on average, will do so  and then apply those costs across a group of 
mortgages. The price of the mortgage, both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs and operate its business. 
CCFS has sent us information about how it has calculated its pre-estimated loss on 
mortgages of the type Mr and Mrs P held. Our rules allow either party to a complaint to 
submit evidence and request we treat it in confidence. Its then for us to decide if its fair to 
accept it in confidence and how much weight to give it when deciding the outcome. CCFS 
has given us information about how it funds its mortgages, how its business is organised, 
and what its various costs are. Im satisfied that this information is commercially sensitive. 
But its also material and highly relevant to this complaint. So, Im satisfied that its 
appropriate for me to receive it in confidence, subject to me summarising it.
In summary, the information shows that theres a cost to CCFS in raising the funds it lends, 
and in carrying out the activities around lending, including protecting itself against market 
movements while the funds are lent. Those costs are recovered from the lending. CCFS 
allocates that cost across its mortgages factoring in an estimate of how many will end before 
their fixed rates expire. It then uses that estimate to set the ERC which is built in to every mortgage  in the expectation that if the predicted number of mortgages end early, overall 
the ERCs generated will cover the costs to CCFS of early termination.
The ERC that Mr and Mrs P paid isnt designed to reflect any losses CCFS incurred because 
they repaid their particular mortgage loan months before their fixed rate ended. Mr and Mrs 
P may be right that those losses are less than the ERC. But thats not relevant to whether 
the ERC was set fairly  because, as the rules allow, its set to generate an estimated share 
of the overall losses across the group of mortgages, not the actual individual losses on that 
one. Thats something specifically allowed for in the regulators rules, so I dont think its an 
unfair approach.
Finally, Mr P has said he may try to pursue this matter in court and seek to recover his costs 
from CCFS. Ultimately it is for Mr and Mrs P to decide whether or not they wish to accept my 
final decision. If they choose not to, then this decision will not be legally binding on either 
party. However, I would encourage Mr and Mrs P to think carefully about their next steps and 
the potential costs of any legal action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman