DRN-4164410
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has only decided to partially refund her, after she 
was the victim of an impersonation scam.
What happened
Mrs J clicked on a link in email she received from TV licensing, requesting updated bank
details. She then received further emails asking for the same information and contacted
Santander as she wasnt sure if the emails had been genuine. Mrs J wasnt entirely sure
what information she had shared with the scammers. But when she spoke to Santander it
confirmed the emails were likely a scam. During the call the Santander staff member
covered the following points:
- She was warned to look out for texts or emails, even if they were from the bank, she
was told it might be a scam  especially if she was asked to follow a link.
- It was explained that scammers can spoof numbers. Even if the call says its from
Santander, it might be scammers. The only way to clarify a genuine call would be to
give Santander a call back. So, if she was to receive a suspicious call, she should
terminate it and call Santander back.
- And generally, she shouldnt ever share any one-time passwords, even with the 
bank.
-
- And if the bank were to call and ask her to transfer her money out of her account that
 would be a scam  the bank or the police would never ask customers to transfer
money.
- If she saw any suspicious direct debits on her account, she could call Santander
back for a refund.
- She should monitor her account and if she saw anything suspicious, she should give
the bank a call. But at that time, her account was safe, there wasnt any suspicious
activity and there was no need to worry.
Shortly after this call, Mrs J received a call from scammers pretending to be from Santander,
saying her account was under threat and two payments had been attempted. The caller said
she needed to move her money to keep it secure. She followed the scammers instructions
setting up a new payee and making three payments in under 10 minutes totalling £7,444.
The call was from an unknown number and Mrs J said the caller knew her name, date of
birth and last four digits on her bank card.
When the caller asked her to move money from a different bank account this made her think
it might not have been genuine, so she terminated the call and called Santander to explain
what had happened. Santander confirmed it hadnt called her and shed been the victim of a
scam.
At the time of reporting the scam Mrs J explained shed understood that Santander would
notify her if anyone took money from her account, and she was advised to monitor her
account but so would Santander. And this was why the call hadnt seemed suspicious and
she thought she was genuinely speaking to Santander.
Santander refunded Mrs J 50% of her losses. It said it had considered the events in line with
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). It said it didnt detect the payment, and if it
had, it could have been provided with an opportunity to stop the payment. And the online
warnings made at the time of the payment were not relevant. But it also said it provided
scam intervention information during the call it had with her, prior to the scam and so it
wouldnt be offering a full refund.
Mrs J was unhappy with this outcome. She thought Santander ought to have changed her
details when she first reported the scam link, that shed clicked on. And if it had done this,
she would have known the call from the scammers wasnt genuine, as her details would
have already been changed and her account locked. And she said Santander ought to have
blocked these payments, as it did go on to block other payments from her account after the
scam had occurred.
Mrs J said at the time she was speaking to the scammers she didnt recall the details of the
genuine call with Santander and the advice or warnings it gave.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Santander should refund Mrs J. She
said it was a finely balanced case, but she thought the warnings she received from
Santander were generic, with no specific mention of safe account scams and the
consequences of making payments. She went on to say the call from the scammers was
convincing because they completed some initial security processes with Mrs J and had
information about her and her account. Specifically, she felt the timing and context of the call
is what had the biggest impact on Mrs Js reasonable basis of belief. And that she was under
the impression Santander would call her if there later turned out to be any suspicious activity
on her account. She acknowledged the payee name was unusual, and Mrs J didnt find this
suspicious when perhaps she should have done. But she didnt think this was enough to
undo the spell the scammers had created that reasonably convinced Mrs J she was
speaking with her bank.
Santander didnt agree, it highlighted the call it had with Mrs J shortly before the scam.
Saying, because she hadnt shared any card details with the scammers her account wasnt
at risk and it then went on to provide a warning about the exact same scam she fell victim to,
just a few hours later. And although it didnt mention the phrase safe account it did provide
sufficient education to Mrs J about this type of scam.
I considered the complaint and set out my provisional decision see below 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything carefully I have come to a different conclusion to the
investigator.
Firstly, I want to say how sorry I am that Mrs J has been the victim of such a cruel scam. My
role here is to decide whether Santanders offer here is fair, in line with CRM code and other
regulatory guidance in place at the time. The scammers are ultimately to blame for the
distress she has suffered following these events.Having considered everything Im not recommending that Santander needs to refund
anything further to Mrs J and I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to her. Ill
explain my findings below.
The genuine call with Santander, prior to the scam call, is a key event here. And having now
listened to it, I can hear that Mrs J is given a detailed explanation about why her account
isnt at risk, after clicking on the scam link in the email. She is asked several questions about
what information she disclosed to the scammers and although she couldnt recall all of these
details, she is reassured that her account isnt at risk. And although she was told to look out
for any unauthorised transactions on her account, she was also reassured that if she
discovered any, she could contact Santander to obtain a refund. I have considered whether
this was enough to have put Mrs J on notice that the call from the scammers wasnt genuine.
And, by itself, I dont think it would have been. But Santander went on to provide warnings
and advice about what to do if Mrs J received any further contact.
Detail is given about the possible follow-up scam calls or contact she might receive as a
result of clicking on the scam link. Whilst the conversation could have been more detailed
and didnt specifically mention the words safe account, I think there was sufficient detail to
highlight the type of scam that Mrs J then fell victim to, just a few hours later.
The red flags that Santander drew to Mrs Js attention in their call, in my view, impact Mrs Js
reasonable basis for proceeding with the scammers instructions. She was told that banks
and the Police could be impersonated and that she should terminate any call and contact
Santander. And she was told she would never be asked to move money  which is exactly
what the scammers told her to do. So, I think Santander gave Mrs J enough information that
when she received the call from the scammers, she ought reasonably to have questioned
what she was being asked to do and terminated the call as Santander had advised.
And there were other things about what Mrs J was told which ought to have caused her to
pause and question if what she was being asked to do seemed legitimate. One of those
being, the payee name was not hers and she did not appear to question this.
So overall I dont think Mrs J proceeded to make the payments with a reasonable basis for
believing she was genuinely dealing with her bank  Santander.
Mrs J has said she thought Santander would call her if there was any suspicious activity on
her account. Thats not what Santander said to her in the call, but I can see why she would
have thought that. However, the call that she did then receive had many elements that
Santander had just described to her as being a scam. So, I dont think the call from someone
pretending to be from Santander saying there was fraudulent activity on her account was
enough, in and of itself, to say Mrs J acted reasonably.
Mrs J has also said that Santander ought to have blocked her account when she first
reported the scam link, she had clicked on. But I dont think Santanders decision not to do
block her account at the time was unreasonable. It had checked what information she had
disclosed to the scammers and was satisfied that her account wasnt at risk. And it took time
to explain the possible scam risks to her.
This all leads me to conclude that I dont currently think Santander needs to make any
further refund to Mrs J.
Mrs J responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary she thought:
- Santander, as a member of the CRM code, ought to have stopped the transactions or 
recovered her money from the scammers account. 
- Because she could not remember what info she gave to the scammers, she thinks 
Santander should have blocked her account as it couldnt be sure she wasnt at risk.
- And the transactions she made to the scammers therefore ought to have been 
considered as unusual and stopped immediately.- Regarding the call with Santander prior to the scam call. She said she was distressed 
after clicking the scam link. And it was difficult and distressing listening to lots of 
instructions and information whilst she was at work. Trying to remember everything 
she had been told would be unreasonable, especially as her memory isnt very good.
- Santander ought to have immediately followed up the telephone conversation with an 
email or text with its information and warnings about scams. It did this after shed lost 
he money, but this was too late.
As well as Mrs Js further comments, I have received information about the receiving 
account. This shows that the receiving bank had contact from Santander at 14.10pm the 
same day Mrs J reported the scam. By the time the scam was reported the majority of 
Mrs Js funds had already been withdrawn and the remainder within a few minutes of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not recommending that Santander refund anything further to Mrs J. 
Ill start by addressing Mrs Js comments. 
Santanders requirements under the CRM code
The CRM requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised 
Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
As a starting point Santander must first consider if it met the firms standards under the 
code - to provide an effective warning. If it didnt then it is required to refund Mrs Js losses. 
Here Santander agrees that whilst it spoke to Mrs J before she made the payments  at the 
time of payments it didnt provide her with an effective warning. And a result it has agreed to 
refund Mrs J 50% of her losses.
It is then for Santander to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care 
under one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.
Those exceptions are:
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Mrs J has raised several concerns about Santander and what it ought to have done to have 
prevented her losses, when she was the victim of this scam. And overall, Santander didnt 
meet the firms standards under the code to detect, prevent and respond to an APP scam. I 
think it ought to have identified the payments Mrs J made as potentially being an APP scam 
risk and intervened when they were made by providing an effective warning. Santander has 
agreed it didnt meet the required standards and as a result refunded 50% of Mrs Js losses. 
And the refund was made the following day so theres no need to consider an interest award 
here.
But I still need to go on to consider whether Mrs J had a reasonable basis of belief that the 
person or business with whom she transacted was legitimate when making the payments. 
So was it reasonable for her to believe she was genuinely speaking with Santander when 
she made these payments and was it reasonable of her think, she was transferring her 
money to a safe account.As set out in my provisional decision, the call that Mrs J had with Santander prior to the 
scammers calling, is significant. Santander did explain what an impersonation or safe 
account type scam call might look like, and it gave her instructions on what to do if she was 
called  to terminate the call and call Santander back. 
Whilst this conversation and warning wasnt in the exact moment of the payments being 
made, it had occurred only a couple of hours prior to the scam call. And whilst I appreciate 
Mrs J has said her memory wasnt great and it was a lot of information to take in during a 
distressing time, I do think Santander focussed on the key points of these types of scams 
without going into detail about lots of other scams, which might have been confusing.  And 
the scam unfolded in a way that mirrored what she was told, very shortly before she actually 
made the payments. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that this 
conversation and those warnings ought to have had an impact on Mrs Js decision making 
here. And because it didnt, I think its fair for Santander to rely on the exception under the 
code and not refund 100% of Mrs Js losses. 
Recovery of funds
With regard to Santanders actions after it was aware of the scam, Im satisfied that it acted 
quickly in its attempts to recover Mrs Js funds, and this could reasonably be deemed as 
having acted immediately under the CRM code. Unfortunately, her money couldnt be 
recovered but Santander werent at fault here.
Overall Santanders refund of 50% of Mrs Js losses is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances so I wont be recommending anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman