DRN-3991193
The complaint
Ms B, as trustee of Mr Ts trust, is unhappy with the service she received from Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited.  
What happened
Ms B and Mr T took out life insurance policies in January 2018. They were to be the 
beneficiaries of each others policies. Mr T sadly died unexpectedly in September 2021. 
Ms B began the process of claiming on the policy but was told that she wasnt the registered 
beneficiary anymore. After an investigation, Legal and General, accepted that this had been 
done fraudulently. 
Ms B says, in summary, Legal and General demonstrated a lack of diligence when they 
accepted at face value the document purporting to have been signed by her. And, they didnt 
contact her to check the alleged instruction to amend the beneficiary. Furthermore, she is 
unhappy with how shes been treated by Legal and General including the time taken to 
process the claim and the decision to reject the claim. The claim was rejected because Legal 
and General said Mr T hadnt accurately answered the medical questions during the 
application process.  
Legal and General looked into Ms Bs complaint. They offered her £500 compensation for 
delays in progressing the claim and in acknowledgement that it would have been courteous 
to telephone her at times. However, they maintained their decision to decline the claim and 
refund the premiums. Unhappy, Ms B referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the compensation offered to 
Ms B for delays and the claim investigation was fair.  And, she didnt think Legal and General 
had unfairly declined the claim. 
Ms B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She didnt think due 
consideration had been given to all the facts. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The amendment of the beneficiary
Its accepted that the document amending the beneficiary was not signed by Ms B and that 
she was the innocent party. Ms B says that important changes to the policy were made 
without her knowledge and consent and that basic checks would have revealed this at the 
time. 
Im not persuaded that there was anything particularly unusual in the request to transfer the 
beneficiary from Ms B to another party which ought to have alerted Legal and General to 
possible fraudulent behaviour. For example, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to 
accept that Ms B had signed the documents. 
When they did become aware of Ms Bs concern about fraud, I think they responded 
appropriately. I dont think it was unreasonable for them to ask Ms B questions about the 
circumstances of the fraud, such as whether she could prove where she was on the day the 
document was signed. Thats relatively common practice in investigations of fraud. 
I can understand why this was upsetting for Ms B, particularly when Mr T had recently died 
and when she was mourning his loss, but I dont think Legal and General treated her 
unfairly. I think they took her concerns seriously and addressed them appropriately. 
I understand Ms Bs disappointment that the perpetrators of the fraud have not been pursued 
by Legal and General. Its a matter for Legal and General to decide if they want to refer this 
to the civil or criminal courts  thats a commercial decision Legal and General are entitled to 
make. So, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably by deciding not to pursue this matter 
further. 
The handling of the claim 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General have a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Legal and General accepts there were delays in handling the claim and they have awarded 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I accept it caused her further 
distress and inconvenience because it took Legal and General longer than it should have 
done to give her an answer about the outcome of the claim. There were avoidable delays 
during a difficult and upsetting time for Ms B. 
However, I think £500 fairly reflects the impact of the delays on Ms B for the additional time it 
took to assess the claim. In reaching this conclusion Ive considered what Ms B has said 
about the grief she was experiencing and that she was feeling at her most vulnerable. 
The decision to decline the claim 
Legal and General say that the claim was declined because Mr T incorrectly answered 
medical questions when he took out the policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its 
fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of this case. 
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a 
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to 
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that 
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the 
insurer were.
Mr T was asked a number of questions about his health when he took the policy out in early 
2018. This included a question which said: 
Health  last 5 years 
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway. Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or health professional for:
Raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or condition affecting blood or blood 
vessels, for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot, deep vein 
thrombosis?
Legal and General say that in response to this question Mr T should have told them about 
appointments with his doctor and the hospital about his blood pressure. Those appointments 
took place in mid-2017. In deciding whether Mr T took reasonable care in answering these 
questions, Ive reviewed his medical records and considered what Ms B has said about Mr 
Ts medical history. 
I think Mr T should have told Legal and General about the appointments related to his blood 
pressure. His blood pressure was monitored by the GP surgery in 2017 and was checked on 
a number of occasions. 
Ms B says that no consideration has been given to the circumstances around the provision 
of the blood pressure checks  such as Mr Ts journey from work to the surgery, which was 
stressful. But, Legal and Generals question made it sufficiently clear that Mr T needed to 
disclose the information about his blood pressure and I think it should have been disclosed 
to them. I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude that Mr T ought 
to have disclosed that information in answer to the question. I think Mr T did make a 
qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
In response to the investigators findings Ms B said that Legal and General wrote to Mr T to 
ask him to confirm the information. So, she says, it stands to reason that there were potential 
irregularities within the information which Legal and General were aware of. But it was Mr Ts 
responsibility to ensure that the information he provided was correct, and Legal and General 
are entitled to rely on the answers he gave. The application form prompted Mr T to check the 
information was correct and that incorrect information may impact on future claims. Mr T was 
also sent a Check Your Details document which further highlighted the need to check the 
information was correct. This is common practice in the industry, and I dont think it 
demonstrates that Legal and General were aware of irregularities in the application.  
Legal and General has demonstrated that, if Mr T had disclosed the information about his 
blood pressure, it wouldnt have offered him this policy at the time. If the questions been 
answered correctly Legal and General would have postponed the application. 
As Mr T made a qualifying representation Legal and General is entitled to apply the relevant 
remedy available to it under CIDRA. Theyve said that Mr T must have known the answer he 
gave was wrong. I dont think thats unreasonable, given that the appointments had taken 
place not long before the policy was taken out and as hed had a number of appointments 
about his blood pressure. 
CIDRA says that in cases where a consumer has made a misrepresentation that falls into 
the deliberate or reckless category the insurer may avoid the contract, refuse all claims and 
retain the premiums unless it would be unfair to the consumer to do so. In this case Legal 
and General has avoided the policy, refused the claim and returned the premiums. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the remedy outlined in 
CIDRA. My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Ms B £500 
if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B as trustee of 
Mr T's Trust to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman