DRN-2481097
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
theft claim which she made under her car insurance policy. Shes unhappy with its decision 
to record a negative marker with an insurance fraud register.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs F contacted her insurer, Admiral to say her car had been stolen. Mrs F and 
her family in the meantime appealed on social media and the car was discovered a short 
distance away a few days later. It was locked. Mrs F maintained that in the four years they 
owned the car, they only ever had one key, which was still in their possession. Mrs F 
believed a thief had stolen her car using a cloned key.
In September 2019 Admiral declined the claim after investigation and said it would add Mrs 
Fs details to an insurance fraud register. Admiral said it believed Mrs F hadnt arranged for 
the car to be stolen, or had driven it away herself. But it didnt believe her account could be 
true. There were no signs of forced entry or theft damage to her car. Admiral said there 
would be evidence a cloned key had been used to steal the car  but the evidence provided 
by an independent engineer showed only the two original keys were coded to the car. And 
so Admiral said Mrs F had deliberately misled it over the circumstances of the incident. 
Admiral cancelled Mrs Fs policy and looked to recover the claim costs from her. Admiral has 
since told us it wont look to recover the claim costs from Mrs F.
Mrs F asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator thought Admirals decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable as it wasnt clear how the car could have been stolen. But 
he didnt think Admiral had presented enough evidence to show Mrs F had attempted to 
make a fraudulent claim. 
So he recommended Admiral refund the remaining premium Mrs F had paid under the policy 
before cancellation (on the basis no other claim was made). And he thought Admiral should 
change the recording of the cancellation to a customer cancellation and remove any 
negative marker against Mrs F from any fraud registers. 
Mrs F accepted the investigators findings. Admiral believes its decision to record a fraud 
marker against Mrs F was reasonable. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for us to determine how or if a theft happened, instead we look closely at expert 
evidence to determine what is most likely to have occurred. And isnt for us to decide 
whether a policyholder has acted fraudulently or not. Instead, I need to decide if Admiral 
acted reasonably on raising the fraud condition and taking the action it has.
Admiral can cancel a policy if it believes a condition of the policy has been breached. In this 
case, Admiral say , based on the evidence it has, its likely Mrs F did breach the fraud 
condition of the policy. Ive checked the terms and conditions of the policy in relation to this, 
and they say:
If you or anyone acting for you makes or supports a fraudulent claim against us or
deliberately or recklessly provides us with false information when taking out the 
policy, making changes to it or at renewal that would either impact the terms and 
conditions or our ability to offer cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which 
you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to 
recover any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium.
Mrs F and her daughter, a named driver, gave consistent accounts to Admiral and the 
investigator. Mrs F says they have only ever had one key. Both Mrs F and Admiral contacted 
the garage Mrs F bought the car from four years before. The garage couldnt confirm how 
many keys Mrs F was provided with. 
Mrs F thought the car must have been stolen by way of key cloning  as she says the key 
they used for the car had stayed in their home, so couldnt have been used. We asked 
Admiral if their investigation revealed which key was last used to drive the car. Admiral said 
it couldnt obtain this information for this type of car or key. Admiral believe a coded key must 
have been used to steal the car. 
Admiral says that while the selling garage cannot confirm whether it provided one or two 
keys, its implausible for a thief to come into possession of the second key after four years 
and then steal the car. Even if a second key was hidden somewhere in the car, there would 
have been signs of forced entry to access such a key to steal the car. There wasnt any 
evidence of forced entry  and so Admiral says the only likely conclusion is that a correctly 
coded key was used. Admiral believes Mrs F was aware of the implications involved and 
made a decision to mislead Admiral as to the circumstances of how the car was stolen.
Mrs F contacted the police on a number of occasions with information she discovered while 
looking for her car including CCTV footage from neighbours  and in relation to where the 
car was found. She also provided this information to Admiral and asked it to contact the 
police, but Admiral didnt follow this up. 
Having a fraud marker  or a cancellation by an insurer recorded  can have a serious 
impact on a customers ability to obtain insurance. I think from the circumstances described 
and the information available that Admirals decision to decline the claim on the basis the 
incident didnt happen as described was reasonable. But I dont think Admiral has provided 
enough evidence to support its decision to record a negative marker against Mrs F on a 
fraud register. I dont think its shown that Mrs F intended to make a fraudulent claim. 
Based on all of the information available, I intend to uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part and I 
agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right as set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Remove any negative marker against Mrs Fs record on any insurance fraud register 
or database. Record the cancellation of Mrs Fs policy as a customer cancellation.
Refund any premium Admiral kept following cancellation for the remainder of the 
policy term (on the basis no other claim was made against the policy).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman