DRN-3359916
The complaint
Mrs E has complained about the quality of service she received from Admiral Insurance
Company Limited (Admiral) regarding her motor insurance policy and about its failure to
cover a shortfall in legal expenses.
What happened
Mrs E and her family were involved in a traumatic incident in August 2018. Mrs Es car
caught fire whilst her children were strapped into the back seat. Her husband was able to get
the children out of the car before it was engulfed in flames.
Mrs E was insured with Admiral at the relevant time. Following Mrs Es initial contact,
Admiral said that it would deal with the car as a total loss and would discuss a settlement
figure with her. Mrs E also informed Admiral that two weeks prior to the incident, the
manufacturers had recalled her car due to an air conditioning fault.
Following the initial contact with Admiral, Mrs E decided to pursue a claim against the cars
manufacturers who accepted that the air conditioning fault had caused the fire. The
manufacturers eventually settled Mrs Es claim in September 2019. She had instructed a
solicitor in relation to this claim. She had however been unable to recover all her legal
expenses from the manufacturers. Mrs E therefore went back to Admiral to request
assistance as shed paid for a motor legal protection (MLP) policy, however Admiral
declined assistance.
Mrs E complained that Admiral wrongly withdrew legal expenses cover and she felt
unsupported by Admiral in her claim against the manufacturers. Admiral agreed that it hadnt
communicated adequately with Mrs E regarding the claim for damage to her car. It offered
£75 for trouble, upset and delay caused, however it didnt agree to cover the legal expenses
element.
Mrs E then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think Admiral needed to do
anything further. He did consider that Admiral could have provided Mrs E with more
information to make an informed choice. As Mrs E had pursued the manufacturers and
theyd accepted liability, he didnt think it was fair to say that Admiral had reneged on its
obligations.
Mrs E remained unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and in the circumstances, the 
complaint was referred to me to reach a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. In 
February 2022, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was 
minded to partly uphold Mrs Es complaint regarding the service quality element only, as 
follows; -
On a provisional basis, I cant say that Admiral acted unfairly in applying its policy terms and
conditions, although the traumatic incident of August 2018 and on-going difficulties Mrs E
encountered in recovering her losses have undoubtedly caused Mrs E distress and huge
inconvenience.
This was due to a range of factors. Having looked at all documents, listened to relevant
telephone calls and considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Es policy, I cant say that
this was due to Admirals actions. Ive found that Admirals failure in communications did add
to the distress and inconvenience however, as explained in this decision. I therefore partly
uphold Mrs Es complaint as to the quality of service.
I note that the complaint itself is relatively straightforward, however the background and
interactions surrounding Mrs Es complaint are complex. They involve two sets of
underwriters as well as the car manufacturers and relate to an incident which took place
three-and-a-half years ago.
I also appreciate that it can be confusing when different policies apply to different aspects of
insurance cover. This usually means that a policyholder must then deal with different
underwriters when making a claim. In this case, Mrs Es motor insurance policy was
underwritten by Admiral and her MLP policy was underwritten by a separate underwriter,
although Mrs E understood that both policies were bought through Admiral.
Ive also looked at Mrs Es complaint about the underwriters actions relating to the MLP
policy which provides specific legal cover. Both complaints relate to the same background
facts. Ill be issuing a separate decision about the MLP policy complaint.
Here, Ive looked at Admirals actions relating to Mrs Es motor insurance policy with Admiral,
and how it handled its communications more generally with Mrs E.
Admirals actions relating to Mrs Es motor insurance policy
The starting point here is the wording of Mrs Es motor insurance policy. The relevant
provisions state; -
If your car is lost or damaged as a result of fire... we will cover you for the loss or damage
to your car It also says; - we will not pay forfor any loss or damage caused by
mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer failures, breakdowns or breakages.
Under the heading: - Cover for legal costs, states: - If we agree in writing, we will pay the
following legal costs and expenses from a claim for an accident.
It states that the relevant legal costs includeany other legal costs and expenses if we
agree beforehand.
Admiral wrote to Mrs E on the date of the incident in August 2018 confirming that Mrs E was
covered for £100k of legal expenses. Mrs E felt that Admiral had reneged on this 
commitment to provide legal expenses cover of up to £100,000. She said that shed
informed Admiral in October 2018, that if the manufacturers didnt fully compensate her for
her losses, then she would revert back to Admiral. She did so in October 2019.
Her representative felt that Admiral were hiding behind the small print in its policies and that
the main issue related to the complexity of the organisation. She said that its complex
structure enabled it to renege on its commitments. She also said that Admiral had agreed
that it had reneged on its commitments.
I agree that in its final response letter, Admiral appeared to be conceding that it had reneged
on its commitments. It then contradicted this by stating that it hadnt withdrawn its support
prior to Mrs E making her claim against the manufacturers. It said that if the legal costs
remained in dispute and legally recoverable, then the route was against the manufacturers
through the courts. It didnt consider it should pay legal costs not previously notified or
agreed by it.Ive looked carefully at the information provided by both Mrs E and Admiral and the detailed
wording of the policy. Im satisfied that Admiral acted within the terms and conditions of its
motor insurance policy. It was prepared to settle a claim under the motor insurance policy.
Mrs E decided to pursue a claim against the manufacturers however, as it had admitted
liability and it wouldnt lead to a strike on her policy or lead to Mrs E paying the policy
excess. There was also a possibility of claiming for losses other than total loss of the car
against the manufacturers and it also provided a hire car which wasnt available under the
terms and conditions of Admirals policy.
As to cover for legal costs under Admirals main motor insurance policy, this cover was
limited to matters such as defending serious criminal charges. It also referred to any other
legal costs and expenses, but only if agreed beforehand. Admiral wasnt approached
beforehand to approve the appointment or the scope and nature of any legal work on behalf
of Mrs E. I cant therefore say that Admiral acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner in
declining to cover Mrs Es legal costs under the motor insurance policy.
The specific complaint on behalf of Mrs E however is that Admiral reneged on its
commitment to provide legal expenses cover, despite advising that she was entitled to up to
£100,000 of cover. Im satisfied on a provisional basis that Admiral didnt renege on its
commitments for this element under its motor insurance policy. This is was due to the fact
that the cover was subject to standard requirements and was available in only very limited
circumstances as above. Specific cover was provided under the MLP policy and
underwritten by a different underwriter however and a complaint about this has been
considered separately, as explained above.
With regard to the complaint that Admiral was hiding behind the small print, unfortunately
we can only consider whether insurers have acted fairly and reasonably within the terms and
conditions of their policies. These form the basis of the contract between the parties. We
look to ensure that they are applied fairly between the parties. I cant say however that
Admiral has applied its standard terms and conditions in an unfair or unreasonable manner
in this case.
Admirals handling of communications with Mrs E
Mrs E said that she felt unsupported by Admiral and that she was left to fight the
manufacturers on her own. Her representative considered that Admiral must have believed it
was at fault, otherwise it wouldnt have offered compensation of £75.
Admiral stated that in November 2018, it asked the manufacturers to continue to deal with
Mrs Es claim. It accepted however that it could have done more to discuss with Mrs E
whether this remained the best course of action for her. It said that its compensation
payment of £75 acknowledged this aspect of the complaint as well as delay in dealing with
the complaint.
As to feeling unsupported, Ive seen evidence from the Admirals claim and complaints notes
that it made numerous attempts to contact and discuss matters with the manufacturers to
check if they were going to deal with Mrs Es claim in full. However, these attempts werent
communicated to Mrs E.
I note also the mixed messages which Mrs E received from Admiral and the MLP policy
underwriter which would naturally have caused Mrs E some considerable confusion. In early
December 2018, the MLP policy underwriter had written to Mrs E asking for further detailed
information to consider any claim. A day later, Admiral had written to Mrs E stating that its
liability had ended. Mrs E referred to this letter; in which they categorically state that as [the
manufacturer] admitted liability it wouldn`t be an insurance claim and that it ends theirliability. This would no doubt have caused further stress and anxiety and Mrs E thought that
shed been left with no alternative but to continue to pursue a claim against the
manufacturers.
In the circumstances, I agree on a provisional basis that Admiral could have done more to
clearly explain Mrs Es options and the separate arrangements regarding her policies,
particularly in the light of the unusual and particularly traumatic nature of the incident. I also
note that Admiral recognised and offered compensation to Mrs E for these communication
failures, however I consider that this does not compensate Mrs E adequately, as the failures
exacerbated an already confusing and distressing set of circumstances.
Finally, I understand the impact that the traumatic and potentially life-threatening event of
August 2018 will have had on Mrs E and her family and I sympathise with the difficulties that
she has experienced in trying to remedy the shortfall in legal expenses. I cannot however
fairly and reasonably place the responsibility for this shortfall upon Admiral.
In conclusion, its likely that Ill conclude that the compensation already offered by Admiral
for its communication failures in this case, is insufficient in the light of the additional stress
and inconvenience caused by these failures. I therefore find on a provisional basis that a fair
and reasonable outcome to this complaint would be an additional payment of compensation.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mrs E and Admiral if they had any further comments 
or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral hasnt indicated that it has any other final points which it would like to make. Mrs Es 
representative has provided a comprehensive response however, which Ive considered in 
detail. 
The representative made it clear that the complaint was against Admiral, to which one 
premium had been paid for both motor and MLP cover. He considered that the manner in 
which Admiral subsequently managed that cover, was down to Admiral and this was the nub 
of Mrs Es complaint. As far as Mrs E was concerned, she was dealing with one body and if 
Admiral chose to organise themselves differently, then any subsequent communication with 
the policyholder should have been seamless, however it wasnt.
The representative stated that the claim against Admiral was based purely on the point of 
recovering the shortfall in legal costs rather than a claim for trauma. He said that ultimately 
the family had to fund their own legal costs to fight the claim. He acknowledged that there 
was no link between the two however he thought that, having decided that Admiral were at 
fault for causing additional trauma, the award was low. Mrs Es representative stated that 
Mrs E was ..not trying to re-enact the claim against [the manufacturers] by seeking to obtain 
from Admiral tens of thousands of pounds compensation for trauma, merely to repay us the 
shortfall we experienced when we concluded the claim against [the manufacturers].
The representative also stated; By advertising the policy and focusing on the strap line of 
providing £100,000.00 of cover, Admiral is guilty of implying (by the sheer size of the monies 
available) that all legal costs will be covered. He noted from the wording extracted from the 
policy that this is not the case in reality. The representative considered that Mrs E had been 
misled about the benefits of taking out legal protection cover. He felt that Admiral was guilty 
of selling a product which didnt meet client expectations; Admiral need to change their marketing stance or are they going to continue in deliberately encouraging prospective 
clients to pay additional premiums for Legal Protection cover that for all practical purposes, 
does not exist. Mrs E representative wondered whether the service would seek change at 
Admiral. 
Ive carefully considered all of Mrs Es further submissions. Having done so however, I dont 
consider that it would be fair or reasonable to further increase the compensation award. The 
provisional decision took account of mixed messages provided to the policyholder by 
Admiral, and lack of seamless service which would have caused considerable confusion. I 
appreciate that Mrs E considers that the compensation award should be higher and feels 
that it amounts to barely 10% of her claim. The proposed compensation figure of £425 in 
addition to the £75 already offered is however a relatively high figure in accordance with our 
guidance. This figure is to recognise the significant impact of the service failure element of 
this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Es distress in terms of the course of events which followed the initial 
incident. Im unable to say however that Admiral was responsible for the fact that the 
manufacturers didnt fulfil all of Mrs Es expectations regarding her claimed losses. Mrs E 
had made the difficult judgment to initially pursue the manufacturers rather than an 
insurance claim. She has also made the difficult judgment to accept a much-reduced claim 
against the manufacturers rather than risk incurring further legal costs. It is understandable 
therefore that it was only at a much later stage that she reverted to Admiral, however this 
meant that the standard pre-conditions for making a legal protection insurance claim hadnt 
been fulfilled.
I can see that the distress and disappointment caused to Mrs E is partly due to the 
assumption that insurance would cover all legal costs regardless of whether the standard 
required steps had been carried out in order to take advantage of such a policy. Although 
insurance cover for legal expenses up to £100,000 was available in principle, as the 
provisional decision notes, these standard required steps were not fulfilled in this case.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Admiral was responsible for service failings, however the 
failings related only to the way in which it communicated with Mrs E and not in relation to 
application of the terms and conditions of its policy to the facts of the case. The 
compensation award recognises the extent of the trauma caused by the communication 
issues only, which would have been over and above the very serious trauma of the incident 
itself.
With regard to upheld complaints, final decisions are published on the services website and 
its expected that insurers will take on board the lessons from our investigations and detailed 
decisions, in order to improve their services. 
In conclusion, I greatly sympathise with Mrs E and her family in having to come to terms with 
the dreadful ordeal of August 2018 and in relation to the subsequent experiences in dealing 
with the manufacturers and her insurers. I cannot, however, save for the identified 
communication failures, fairly and reasonably attribute this to Admirals actions. Im pleased 
to note that the trauma is receding for the children and I sincerely hope that this final 
decision will assist the family to finally put this distressing matter behind them.
Subject to the points noted and accepted as above, in all the circumstances, Ive concluded 
that the provisional decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter and I 
therefore partially uphold Mrs Es complaint as follows.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mrs Es complaint regarding the service 
quality element of her complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs 
E the sum of £425 in addition to the £75 compensation already paid for the trouble, upset 
and delay caused by its communication failures in this matter.
Admiral must also pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs E 
accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman