DRN-2097173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out the PPI policy in 1990 during a meeting at the same time as they 
applied to remortgage. Mr and Mrs J have said the PPI was originally taken out in 1980 but 
they have provided no documentation to support this, and evidence from Bradford & Bingley 
shows the policy was taken out in 1990 when Mr and Mrs J were remortgaging. So I am 
reviewing their complaint on that basis.
The policy was in Mr Js sole name and gave him accident and sickness cover. They paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional, and they 
had to agree to take it out. They say they werent aware they had PPI and dont recall any 
discussion about PPI. They say they didnt claim for redundancy in 1994 showing they were 
unaware they had the policy. But Mr and Mrs J didnt have unemployment cover, so this isnt 
relevant to their complaint. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting as there are no meeting notes or records, but I 
have looked at the available paperwork. The mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs J 
signed shows they indicated that they wanted PPI for Mr J. They selected accident and 
sickness protection and £300 of monthly cover. In the same section of the form there was 
the option to decline PPI. It read If cover is NOT required, please indicate with a cross in the 
box. Mrs J said someone filled in the form for them and they just signed it but given the 
significance of a mortgage application I would have expected them to read the form carefully 
before signing.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Js comments, but I also have to take into account how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect what they recall. Overall, I think the balance of 
evidence shows Bradford & Bingley made it clear PPI was optional  and Mr and Mrs J 
chose to take it out.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs J, so it didnt have to check it 
was right for Mr J. But it had to give them enough information so they could make an 
informed decision about whether they wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But I dont think they wouldve been put off taking out the policy 
if theyd received better information. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Mr J wasnt affected by any of the things, such as a pre-existing medical condition or 
type of employment, which limited the policys main benefits. As Mr J couldve 
benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr J cant recall his sick pay entitlement, but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to this, and at the time of the sale it offered accident and sickness cover for an 
unlimited period of time.  They had some savings, but the PPI would have meant 
they could use them to cover other living expenses whilst Mr J wasnt working, or to 
keep them intact for their future needs. They also said family would have helped but 
thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed, and peoples 
circumstances can change. Mr and Mrs J were borrowing a large sum of money over 
a long period, secured against their home. Given the serious consequences of 
missing mortgage repayments I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs J 
if Mr J was sick or had an accident.
I dont know when during the sale the cost of the policy was made clear. But it was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of any failures at the time of the 
sale. 
As set out in its final response letter, Bradford & Bingley has made an offer to refund all 
premiums paid from March 1996 onwards once Mr J was no longer eligible for the policy. It 
seems that refund has not been yet been paid so the business should now make that 
payment to Mr and Mrs J, adding simple interest* to each payment from when they paid it 
until the date of settlement. It can deduct the value of any successful claims from the amount 
it owes.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley to take off tax from this interest. Bradford & 
Bingley must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. But Bradford & Bingley Plc must now pay 
Mr and Mrs J the refund offered as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman