DRN-1916838
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>ns (RSA) 
handling of his claim made under the legal expenses insurance (LEI) section of his home 
insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the conduct of a solicitor who assessed his claim.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. Mr D has cover for certain legal expenses 
which is provided by RSA.
In 2019 Mr D returned home and discovered that part of the boundary fence of his property 
had been removed. He believed his neighbour, or their agent had done this. Mr D contacted 
RSA to make a claim as he wanted to take legal action against the neighbour to have things 
put right. 
RSA passed the claim to one of their panel solicitors L. L asked Mr D for some further 
information and completed an assessment of the prospects of success of Mr Ds proposed 
legal action. The solicitor involved concluded that the claim didnt have the required 
prospects of success and the claim was later declined. 
Mr D was unhappy that the solicitor had made his assessment without asking him for the 
likely costs of re-instating the damage to the fence (something he later provided to RSA). He 
says the solicitor told him the claim was not worth his fees and was frustrated at being 
asked on numerous occasions to provide authority for his file to be released from L to RSA. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
concluded it was fair for RSA to rely on the legal opinion and to decline the claim. She felt 
the solicitors opinion made clear that he didnt think the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success, so whether or not the proportionality of the claim had been assessed at that point 
was irrelevant. She pointed out that L are separate to RSA, which is why further permission 
had been sought to release documents to them. 
Mr D disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for very similar 
reasons. I know Mr D feels very strongly about this, so Ill explain why. 
Mr D has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint and Ive read all that has 
been sent in. I dont however intend to respond in similar detail. So, if I dont respond to a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr D doesnt take 
this as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Mr D has pointed out that his policy specifically provides cover for neighbour disputes. I 
agree this is a type of dispute that is potentially covered by the policy. But importantly, all 
policies will be subject to further terms, conditions and exclusions. No policy will provide 
cover for every set of circumstances. And cover will only be available if the remaining terms 
and conditions are met. 
Under the heading general exclusions, Mr Ds policy says Any claim where there is not a 
reasonable chance of you winning the case and achieving a reasonable outcome. I dont 
think this is an inherently unfair exclusion. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying 
client wouldnt generally continue with legal action if they were advised they were unlikely to 
win. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either. This requirement is commonly referred 
to as reasonable prospects of success.  
RSA themselves arent legal experts. So, I think it is fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim  unless that advice is so obviously wrong 
that a layperson could identify that. 
In this case, Im satisfied that Mr G, the solicitor from L who conducted the legal assessment, 
is suitably qualified. Ive also read his legal assessment. The summary of this says I am 
sorry to have to report that your claim does not have reasonable prospects of success in 
terms of its legal merits. In broad summary it sets out that the fence is positioned on the 
boundary and that Mr D and his neighbour are jointly responsible for its maintenance. He 
also points out that the part of the fence (the panel) that was removed was, in his opinion, 
the property of the neighbour.  
I can understand Mr Ds point about feeling he ought to have been asked for a quote in 
relation to re-instatement works. This is because part of the assessment concludes that 
Mr G had been unable to assess the proportionality of the claim without that information. But 
it does say that as he was of the opinion that there werent reasonable prospects of success, 
the proportionality wouldnt make a difference to whether or not the claim would be accepted 
by RSA. 
Taken as a whole, Im satisfied the legal assessment is clear that its author doesnt believe 
there are the required prospects of success. I also dont think it is obviously incorrect. It 
follows that I think it is fair for RSA to rely on this opinion and to decline Mr Ds claim on that 
basis. 
I agree with our investigator that it isnt necessary to consider the proportionality of legal 
action, as the claim fails on its prospects. I also note that Mr D sent in his quote for repairs to 
RSA and that this was attached to the file of another claim of his in error and it wasnt initially 
picked up. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think this made any difference to the 
outcome. 
RSA said in response to his complaint that if Mr D submitted anything further that hadnt 
already been considered they would pass this to a solicitor to see if it changed their opinion 
on the prospects of success. They also said that if Mr D were to source a further legal 
opinion that disagreed with L and confirmed positive prospects of success, they would 
consider it. I think this is fair.As our investigator pointed out, L are separate to RSA. RSA arent responsible for quality of 
the legal work or customer service provided by L. As such, I wont comment on any 
conversations between Mr G and Mr D. Likewise I cant comment on how many times Mr D 
was asked to provide authority for his assessment to be released to L. Our investigator 
provided some reasons to try to help explain the situation to Mr D. But ultimately these arent 
things that RSA are responsible for. I understand Mr D is pursuing a separate complaint 
about L to their professional body. This is an appropriate course of action if he remains 
unhappy with their conduct.
Overall, I dont think RSA have acted outside the terms of the policy, or treated Mr D unfairly. 
So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman