DRN-1427737
The complaint
Mr O complains about the service he received from Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as the 
Post Office) in relation to his savings account.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr O opened a Post Office Money Instant Saver and deposited some money. 
This account came with an ATM card which could be used for withdrawals. But a technical 
issue with the Post Offices systems meant the ATM card that Mr O was sent didnt work. 
Mr O raised this with the Post Office and over the next two months it sent him two 
replacement cards, and new pins, to try and resolve the problem but these also didnt work. 
As an alternative, the Post Office provided him with an access code which he could then use 
in branch to make withdrawals.
Mr O complained to the Post Office. It apologised for the problems Mr O had experienced, 
explaining there was an on-going system error which was causing difficulties and it was 
working to resolve this. It offered Mr O £50 compensation for the inconvenience and costs of 
the telephone calls hed had to make.
Mr O didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to us. He told us he still couldnt 
use his account in the way he wanted to. Mr O said he wanted his two sources of income to 
be paid into the account  one would then be savings and the other would be for him to live 
off. But he hasnt been able to pay his living expenses into this account because of the 
difficulties hes had with his ATM card. 
The Post Office told us Mr O had still been able to access his savings and noted Mr O had 
since withdrawn the majority of his savings using this method. And the Post Office also told 
us that Mr O was not using his account for its designed purpose, operating it more like a 
current account than a savings account. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked the Post Office to pay Mr O £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset he had been caused. But Mr O disagreed - he felt he 
should receive £1500 compensation. So, the matters been passed to me decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware the Post Office said Mr O was using his account more like a current account. But 
having reviewed the terms and conditions, Im satisfied Mr O was using his account in lines 
with these. So, I dont think this is a relevant consideration here. 
The Post Office accepted theres an error with ATM cards and it apologised for this. I 
appreciate that last time he spoke with our service, Mr Os ATM card still wasnt working. But 
the Post Office has explained its working to fix this system error and will let Mr O know when 
this is done. So, Im satisfied its taking appropriate action to try resolve this problem and Mr O does have means to withdraw the remainder of his money if required. So, all I need to 
consider is the impact of this error on Mr O. 
Whilst Im aware this problem is ongoing, I can only consider the impact of this issue up until 
the end of September - this is what the Post Office looked at in their final response. This is 
because the rules our service operates under, known as the DISP rules, state the Post 
Office needs to be given the opportunity to consider and respond to any complaint first. 
Should Mr O have any additional concerns about the impact of this issue after this, then he 
can make a further complaint. 
Mr O, although inconvenienced, was still allowed access to his funds whenever he needed. 
And Ive seen no evidence to show he lost out financially due to the Post Offices system 
errors. 
But Mr O had to spend time making phone calls to try to resolve things and was unable to do 
so. This was frustrating and took time. And I think the same could be said of the fact Mr O 
had to wait to access his money after hed chosen to do so. Hes also told us he then 
withdrew larger amounts than he would have liked. Mr O was then asked questions about 
how he wanted to spend his money which he found upsetting  and this wouldnt have 
happened if hed had a working ATM card. 
The Post Office has already offered Mr O £50 compensation for his time and to cover any 
call costs incurred. But I think the Post Office should pay Mr O a further £50 compensation to 
fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by this problem. I think this amount takes 
into consideration the time taken for the phone calls and branch visits as well as the overall 
frustrations of the delay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay 
Mr O a total of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman