DRN-3355372
The complaint
Miss E complains that Pockit Limited is holding her liable for card transactions which she 
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In September 2020, Miss E saw several payments had been made using her Pockit card, 
which she says she did not authorise.  These payments were made to companies I will refer 
to as Company J and Company F in this decision.  Miss E contacted Pockit to dispute these 
payments and asked it to recover her money.  As this did not happen, Miss E raised a 
complaint which she referred to our service.
In short, Pockit says it considers the payments to be legitimate.  It says one of the disputed 
payments to Company J was reversed, so Miss E must have contacted them to arrange this.  
Pockit also says that credentials, such as postcode and address, match the payments to 
Company J and Company F.  
One of our investigators considered Miss Es complaint.  In short, she held that Miss E had 
authorised the disputed payments and that Pockit had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Miss E did not accept the investigators findings.  She says:
She has since been in contact with Company J, which confirmed that one of the 
disputed payments to them was for a pair of headphones. 
Company J also confirmed the address the headphones were delivered to, including 
other details provided at the time of purchase.
This address is for an Airbnb she had booked through a lodging reservations 
company.
This company informed her that when she made her booking, her card details would 
have been passed to the Airbnb.
Company F refused to provide her with any information about the disputed payments 
made to them.
Based on the above, Miss E suggests that her card details may have been compromised 
when she booked the Airbnb concerned via the lodging reservations company.
The investigator put Miss Es further submissions to Pockit.  It responded stating:
Please be advised that it has been pointed out that the represented credentials match the 
[Company J] transaction that was previously disputed by customer.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am of the view that this complaint should be upheld.  I will explain why 
below.
On the 1 November 2021, I sent Pockit an email requesting technical evidence relating to 
the disputed payments.  I made this request because what Pockit provided in its business 
file was not satisfactory for me to safely conclude that the payments were authorised by Miss 
E.
On the 4 November 2021, 2 December 2021, 16 December 2021, 11 January 2022 and 28 
January 2022  Pockit sent me emails stating that my request was being considered and 
treated as a priority.
On 23 February 2022, I sent Pockit the following email:
On 1 November 2021, I sent you an email requesting further information about the 
authorisation of the payments concerned. However, you have not yet provided this - despite 
several emails from you stating that this matter is being looked into.
As I have insufficient evidence before me to determine whether the payments were
authenticated - evidence only which you can provide - I am minded to uphold this complaint 
and direct Pockit Limited pay:
Miss L the disputed transactions (totalling £673.79);
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mrs L's account 
until the date of settlement; and
If Pockit Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Miss L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
I am satisfied that you have more than enough time to provide me with what I requested. If 
this is not provided by 28 February 2022, I will be issuing my final decision on the above 
basis.
Despite the above, I have not received a response from Pockit.
Therefore, I am persuaded by Miss Es testimony that the disputed payments were not 
authorised by her.  In the absence of any credible technical evidence which suggests 
otherwise, I see no reason to depart from what I set out in my email to Pockit (above).
Miss E has confirmed to me that the disputed payments total £644.74; and that she is willing 
to accept this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I therefore 
direct Pockit Limited:Pay Miss E all the money she lost (totalling £644.74); plus
Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Miss Es account 
until the date of settlement.
If Pockit Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Miss E with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman