DRN-3184055
The complaint
Miss R has complained American Express Services Europe Limited is expecting her to pay 
for transactions fraudulently made on her card.
What happened
Amex initiated a check on Miss Rs account following a large number of declined 
transactions. Miss R contacted them to claim a transaction made with a major retailer for 
£1,605.94 was fraudulent. She then claimed a further £594.91 worth of transactions as 
fraudulent after that initial transaction.
Although Amex initially reimbursed Miss Rs account, they then re-debited the amount for the 
transactions (totalling £2,200.85) and closed her account. Their evidence showed the same 
IP address was used for the orders made with Miss Rs card. Theyd also seen evidence 
from retailers showing deliveries being made to Miss Rs address. Theyd also noted one of 
the items delivered to Miss R had subsequently been sold on social media.
Miss R refuted Amexs findings and said no-one else had access to her computer. Amex 
gave Miss R time to show corrections made to her record held on CIFAS, the credit 
industrys fraud database. Miss R never got back to them.
As Amex was holding Miss R liable for the outstanding debt, Miss R brought her complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Our investigator asked additional questions of Amex. They shared the evidence theyd 
considered with our service. Overall our investigator felt Miss R had authorised the 
transactions so wouldnt be asking Amex to do anything further.
Miss R told us these transactions had been done by her abusive ex-partner. She told us the 
police had been aware of their relationship. Amex didnt believe this affected the decision 
theyd made.
Miss R has asked an ombudsman to make a decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Rs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that specifically 
seems relevant in Miss Rs case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Amex and 
Miss R. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 3 September 2021 but feel no 
need to rerun some of the arguments made there. Im also not going to run through the 
disputed transactions as theres agreement about what these are. 
It's worth stating upfront that theres no dispute who made these transactions. These were 
certainly made from within Miss Rs home by the person she now calls her ex-partner. And 
this matches the evidence Amex provided to us.
I note Miss R only told us about her ex-partner after our investigator shared information with 
her showing we knew whod made these transactions. Im unsure why this information 
wasnt volunteered to us much earlier in our investigations  or in fact shared with Amex.
Miss R has told us her ex-partner exercised coercive control over her life. She has still 
denied she knew anything about what he was doing just that his control over her life was 
total. Shes since been left with serious debts.
The difficulty I have is that her testimony contradicts other evidence found on current social 
media or other records. Miss R hasnt provided us with any third-party evidence of what 
shes been through. I accept this can be difficult but Id have been prepared to accept 
evidence from the police or similar body which hasnt been forthcoming despite asking these 
questions myself most recently.
I hesitate to suggest Miss R has been duplicitous but she certainly hasnt told us the truth 
from the start. This has made it difficult to be sure how involved shes been in what was 
going on.
Having considered all this  and taking into account how coercive control can affect 
individuals  I believe its most likely Miss R authorised the transactions to be made. I 
therefore wont be asking Amex to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Rs complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman