DRN-1557213
The complaint
Ms C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay a fair market value for her 
car, when she made a claim under her car insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C made a claim to her insurer UKI, following an accident where her car was written off in 
September 2019.
UKI agreed to settle this by paying Ms C the cars market value less her excess. It 
estimated the market valued to be £16,900.
Ms C thought this was too low and said that she wasnt able to replace the car with one of 
a similar style, age, mileage and condition. However, UKI said it had reached its 
valuation fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the valuation given by UKI was fair. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined below.
Ms Cs policy says that in the event of the car being damaged, the most that UKI will 
pay is the cars pre-accident market value. The policy defines this as the cost of 
replacing the car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and 
condition at the time of the accident.
 
We dont value cars, but we check to make sure that insurers have acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. We think a fair way of doing this is to look at the valuations in 
the relevant trade guides. We generally find these persuasive as theyre based on 
extensive nationwide research into the likely selling prices of cars.
 
The guides also take account of a cars mileage and any extras when giving a 
valuation. Ive reviewed the values across four guides, which value the car between 
£16,200 and £18,499. As the amount UKI offered sits within the range of values the 
guides suggest, I think its a fair and reasonable valuation.
 
I appreciate that Ms Cs car is a rare model. So I have reviewed available adverts for 
the same specification and colour. These do generally come in with a value higher 
than what UKI has valued her car at. However, these are advertised prices of cars 
with mileage much lower than Ms Cs car. And the trade guides have confirmed that this mileage difference would have had a significant impact on the cars market 
value. So I dont think this suggests that UKI have unfairly valued Ms Cs car.
 
Ive taken into account that Ms C paid around £25,000 for the car two years before 
the accident. But its inevitable that her car will have lost some value over that time. 
And Im also conscious the cars travelled approximately 25,000 miles since she 
acquired it. I think this has had significant impact on its value.
 
UKIs offer was based within the range of trade guides valuations. I think its acted 
fairly when settling this claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, 
Im not going to uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
 
responses to my provisional decision
UKI confirmed that it had nothing further to add. 
Ms C maintained that she did not agree with my findings. She reiterated that she did not 
cause the accident and she thinks its unfair that shes losing out as a result of something 
that wasnt her fault. 
Within her response, Ms C stated that the car colour and specification were important to her 
and that the other advertised models were either a different colour, specification or were not 
a manual transmission. She included that financially she had lost out significantly, in order to 
get a replacement car of the same specification and colour.
Ms C also explained that she had spent money on new tyres, an upgraded satellite 
navigation system and to upgrade the air conditioning. She says that she didnt intend to 
change the car in the near future, which is why she spent the money on these upgrades. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But my final decision remains as per my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons.
Whilst I acknowledge that Ms C doesnt agree that the guide prices should be used to value 
her car, this is a common way of valuing in these situations. I think that the amount offered 
by UKI is a fair and reasonable valuation of Ms Cs car. I have been able to review adverts of 
cars in the same colour and specification, which did have a manual transmission. These do 
come in higher than the amount offered to Ms C but have a lower mileage than that done by 
Ms C. The trade guides confirm that the difference in the mileage would have had a large 
impact on the valuation. 
Whilst I sympathise with Ms C that she had not long spent a considerable amount of money 
on her car, I dont think that this should increase the value of the vehicle. Money spent 
updating tyres, satellite navigation systems and air condition do not add to the market value. 
I appreciate that Ms C was not planning on changing the car but UKI isnt required to pay 
any more than the market value and I believe that it has settled the claim in line with the 
policys terms. 
My final decisionFor the reasons above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
 
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman