DRN-4256049
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, declined his 
claim for compensation for suffering food poisoning while on holiday.
What happened
In January 2023 Mr M paid for a package holiday using his Tesco Bank credit card. While on 
holiday he had food poisoning, which was diagnosed by a local doctor as gastroenteritis. 
This caused him to miss out on four days of his holiday, at a pro rata cost of approximately 
£200 a day. Mr M attributes this illness to the hotels food, since he did not eat elsewhere. 
Mr M recovered his medical expenses through his travel insurance, but he asked Tesco 
Bank to pay him £800 for his four lost days. He supplied a photo of some undercooked 
chicken to support his claim. He also asked for £100 for failing to tell him about the banks 
complaints procedure (the bank had initially referred him to the Citizens Advice Bureau 
(CAB)).
The bank apologised for the latter issue, and paid Mr M £30. But it did not uphold his claim. 
It told him it could not raise a chargeback, nor conclude that the hotel had breached its 
contract with him (for which the bank would have been jointly liable under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974) because there was not enough evidence that the hotel had been 
responsible for Mr Ms illness. Being dissatisfied with that outcome, Mr M brought this 
complaint to our service. He provided an online review which another guest at the hotel had 
left from a customer who had also been taken ill at the same hotel.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She was not persuaded that the hotels food 
was necessarily the cause of Mr Ms illness (or the illness of the author of the review he had 
provided). She thought there could have been another cause, and noted that there was 
evidence that there had been an outbreak of the illness in a local town, rather than in the 
hotel itself. She concluded that the bank had dealt with his section75 claim and his 
chargeback claim reasonably. She thought that £30 was fair compensation for misadvising 
him about how to complain.
Mr M disagreed with that assessment. He asked what more he could possibly have done to 
prove his case. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for essentially the same reasons as my colleague.
I can see clearly that the chicken in Mr Ms photograph is undercooked, and so it could 
easily have caused him to become unwell (since its condition was not apparent until he had 
begun eating it). However, I think that Tesco Bank was entitled to take the view that this was 
not enough to prove that this was the cause of his illness. That is because there is evidence 
that sewage was being discharged into the sea at the resort, which means that it could have 
made swimmers ill, and those who were guests at the hotel could have infected Mr M even if 
he did not go swimming himself. And the hotel claimed that there had been an outbreak of 
gastroenteritis in town, and I have no reason to doubt that. Locals visiting the hotel, or hotel 
guests who ventured into town, could also have brought the virus back with them. So I do 
not think it would be fair of me to criticise the bank for taking the view, which it was open to 
them to take, that the hotel may not have been responsible for Mr Ms illness.
(There is also nothing in the photo to prove that it was taken in the hotel, but the bank has 
not taken that point, and I have no reason to doubt Mr M, and so on the balance of 
probabilities I accept that it is a photo of the hotels food.)
For these reasons, I do not think that the bank had to compensate Mr M for his lost four 
days.
That is not to say that there was not a breach of contract by the hotel. Serving him 
undercooked chicken, whether it made him ill or not, is still a breach. But without proof that it 
made him ill, I think that the impact of that breach would have been the inconvenience of 
sending it back. I dont think that (by itself) reaches the level where financial compensation 
should be awarded.
Mr M has also provided a photo of a steak, but Im afraid I cant see anything wrong with it.
Finally, while Mr M was inconvenienced by the bank wrongly referring him to the CAB, that 
did not delay his complaint for long, nor did it affect the outcome. I think that an apology and 
the payment of £30 for that matter is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman