DRN-4198203
The complaint
Mr S complained to RCI Financial Services Limited when a car he acquired under a hire 
purchase agreement wasnt as expected. 
What happened
RCI agreed credit for Mr S in April 2016 via a third party dealership in order to acquire a car. 
The cash price of the car was £13,950. Mr S paid a £3,000 deposit and borrowed £10,950. 
The total owed under the agreement including the deposit, interest and charges came to 
£17,888.76. This was to be repaid by 48 monthly instalments of £179.87 followed by one 
monthly instalment of £6,255. 
Mr S complained to RCI in November 2022 that the car he acquired was a used car and he 
was under the impression that he was being supplied with a new one. Mr S also complained 
that the car showed signs of rust on the rear wheel hubs which he felt was premature and a 
result of the car being second-hand. Mr S said he was told that hed been supplied with a 
used car when he raised the issue of the rust with the dealer. He said he feels betrayed and 
disappointed over this and feels he paid too much for the car.  
RCI didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that the car had been first registered the month 
before it was supplied to him and so it had no reason to believe that the car had been used 
or had any previous owners. RCI said that it couldnt comment on what Mr S been told by 
the selling dealership but that hed had the opportunity to fully inspect the car before 
acquiring it, so it didnt believe that any advice on the car being classed as new would have 
been misleading or incorrect. 
Mr S didnt accept this response and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it but didnt recommend that it be upheld. They found that the car hadnt been 
misrepresented to Mr S nor was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied. Mr S asked for his 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide.
Mr S had also complained to RCI that it paid sales commission to the dealership that sold 
him the car, which disadvantaged him. This particular issue is the subject of another 
complaint with us under a difference case reference and does not form part of this 
investigation or determination.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. These include, for example, the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 and 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC) which sets out 
regulations and guidance for lenders such as RCI.
The credit to buy the car was granted by RCI under a hire purchase agreement meaning 
Mr S would own the car when the total owed under the agreement had been repaid. RCI was 
the owner of the car until that point and Mr S was, in essence, paying for its use. As the 
owner of the car bought from the dealership, RCI was responsible for the quality of the car. 
As the lender, RCI was also responsible for any information the dealership provided to Mr S 
before he entered into the hire-purchase agreement. 
My main considerations in this case are - was the car misrepresented to Mr S, in other words 
was he given false information about it which persuaded him to enter into the agreement?  
Was the car of satisfactory quality when supplied, in other words was it of a standard a  
reasonable person would consider satisfactory for the car in question?
Was the car misrepresented to Mr S?
In order to find that the car was mis-represented to Mr S, I need to find that not only was he 
given unfair or misleading information about it but also that that information persuaded him 
to go ahead with the hire when he would not otherwise have done so. 
Mr S said that he was under the impression that the car he was buying was a new, unused 
and unregistered car which had come straight from the manufacturer. He said hed been 
provided with a free three-year parts and labour warranty and breakdown cover which 
wouldnt have been the case with a second-hand car.  
Clearly, I cant know exactly what was said to Mr S at the point of hire. Ive borne in mind 
that the car was supplied to Mr S more than six years ago and so I think its fair to place 
some weight on the available information from the sale when considering his recollections. 
This includes the vehicle order form and the invoice, and the finance agreement. The order 
form is entitled Used vehicle order and is dated 11 April 2016. All three show the cars 
registration date as 22 March 2016. The order form shows the mileage as 10 miles, and the 
invoice shows it as 13 miles. Mr S signed the order form and the agreement, dated the 26 
April.  
Mr S said that the forms he signed were placed on top of each other and that he was not 
shown nor given a copy of the used vehicle order or he would have cancelled the order. 
Mr S provided his Vehicle Registration Certificate or V5C which shows that the car was new 
when registered and was first registered to the dealership on 22 March 2016. I think its likely 
that Mr S knew when he acquired the car that the car had been first registered to the dealer 
and that he was the second registered keeper. I think if this came as a surprise to Mr S and 
impacted on his decision to enter into the agreement then he would have raised it at the time 
and I havent seen any indication that he did so.
Mr S also told us that the car had travelled about 2,000 miles by the time it was supplied to 
him. He said he queried this with the dealer who told him that this was a normal amount of 
miles as the car had to undergo rigorous testing before it was released to him. Mr S hasnt 
been able to provide me with any evidence to show that the mileage when supplied was as 
he recalls, which is understandable given how long ago this happened. The only evidence I 
have shows the car had travelled 10 to 13 miles by mid-April 2016. But, even assuming the 
mileage had increased by the time the car was supplied to Mr S, he didnt raise a complaint 
about it at the time and accepted the car. So I cant fairly say now that that knowing about 
the mileage would have stopped Mr S from entering into the agreement. 
In conclusion, I dont think the car was mis-represented to Mr S. 
Was the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied?Mr S said that the rear wheel hubs of the car had rusted prematurely. He provided a service 
record which states in the first service in April 2017 at 12,128 miles that the anti-corrosion 
check was ok and that there was premature rust on the rear brake drums. The service 
record mentions this every year, noting in July 2022 at 74,217 miles that the rear brake 
drums were badly rusted. 
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 implies a term into any contract to supply goods that 
those goods will be of satisfactory quality when they are supplied. Satisfactory means what a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account the description of the goods, the price 
and any other relevant circumstances. If a customer finds a fault with the goods, as Mr S has 
with his car, it doesnt automatically mean that it was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
provided. It depends on the circumstances which would include, in this case, the nature of 
the fault and when it first arose.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods where the fault 
was present or developing at the point of supply. Mr S told us that he would like 
compensation as he feels he paid more than he should have for the car, given this issue.
Ive first considered whether or not the issue Mr S experienced was present or developing 
when it was supplied to him. Mr S raised this issue with RCI (and before this with the 
dealership) towards the end of 2022. Mr S feels the deterioration of the wheel hubs was 
premature, and the problem was described as such in the service record. It is possible of 
course that the car was supplied to Mr S with rusting rear wheel hubs or ones which were 
beginning to deteriorate. It is also possible that the hubs deteriorated long after the car was 
supplied, given how far the car had travelled in its first year and that the condition of wheel 
hubs can be impacted by how the car was used and stored. 
Altogether, I cant fairly say that the car was supplied to Mr S in that condition or that it was 
developing that condition. This means I cant find that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied, and so Mr S doesnt have recourse to any solutions that could be 
provided under the CRA. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mr S but I am not upholding his complaint 
against RCI. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint against RCI Financial Services Limited and dont 
require it to take any further action in this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman