DRN-2588891
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited took long in 
dealing with his claim under his motor policy to repair his car.
  
What happened
Mr W bought a new car in February 2020. On 21 March 2020 it was broken into and front 
interior of his car was stolen including the steering wheel and the dashboard. He made a 
claim to LV to repair it. 
Given the pandemic was just starting there was an understandable delay in getting parts and 
getting the repair achieved. Mr W had to source much of this himself, given his own industry 
contacts. So, he complained. LV accepted its communication with Mr W had been poor. But 
it claimed some of the delays werent in its control. It initially offered to reduce his excess by 
£100. 
Mr W didnt think this was sufficient and brought his complaint to us in August 2020. Then LV 
reconsidered the matter in September 2020 and said it would be willing to waive the entire 
excess of £850, pay £250 as a general contribution to costs whilst not have his own car, pay 
£250 compensation for not being able to sell his second car plus £150 compensation for the 
delay in logging his complaint. 
The investigator was of the view that LV didnt need to do anymore. Mr W disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint on the basis that the offer made by LV in 
September 2020 is sufficient. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed, but Ill now explain 
why.
I do understand the amount of work and time Mr W put in to find the right parts for his car 
and I can see LV did very little to push things, preferring instead to simply say its approved 
repairers couldnt source the relevant parts. And I do appreciate that for all intents and 
purposes despite trying, the approved repairer was also somewhat out of its depth in 
working out what was needed.
A major problem was that the usual system used namely Audatex didnt identify the right part 
effectively. However, using Audatex is standard across the industry so I dont think the 
approved repairer did anything wrong in choosing to use this system in assessing the parts 
required and the costs involved. 
My role and the role of this service is to assess whether LV did enough to put things right 
when, as in this case, they went wrong. Mr W was without his car for nearly seven months 
however this was incurred just as the pandemic started. At the beginning of the pandemic 
everyone was in some level of disarray with businesses forced to shut and forced set up 
systems to work remotely and everything else. So, I consider there would have been some 
delay attributed to this notwithstanding, and indeed the levels of stress everyone was under 
at that time would have contributed too. LV admitted that regardless, its levels of service fell 
short. Whilst Mr W was without the use of his car, he thankfully had a second car in which to 
keep mobile which mitigated his losses too, albeit that the sale of this car was consequently 
delayed.
 
I dont consider its reasonable for LV to refund any road tax as its a requirement for all 
vehicles to be taxed or SORN. I also dont consider the premium should be refunded 
because the policy was being used for this claim and so that means the premium was used. 
I dont consider the delay in the repairs added to any depreciation of Mr Ws car in the 
manner he suggests. He has confirmed he is happy with the repairs therefore there is no 
such depreciation as Mr Ws claims. That is instead a loss of enjoyment of his car given the 
length of time these repairs took. 
I do consider the total sum of compensation now offered by LV of £1,600 to be sufficient. It is 
more generous than I would have decided, had LV offered nothing. I have no remit to punish 
businesses when things go wrong as this service isnt the regulator, as Mr W knows. I do 
understand the depth of Mr Ws thoughts on this issue, but I consider this level of 
compensation to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W the total sum of 
£1,600 pounds compensation taking account of the waiver of payment of the excess, if it 
hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman