DRN-3021195
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Plcs (RSA) handling of a claim he made under 
his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr T contacted RSA in February 2021 as his boiler had stopped working. An engineer 
attended the same day. Mr T told the engineer he had pressed the re-set button just before 
he had arrived, and the boiler was now working.
The engineer inspected the boiler to try and identify any faults. He reported that a new 
pressure gauge was needed as well as a reset stat. He also said the hot water plate heat 
exchanger was badly corroded. Although the boiler was working, RSA says it obtained 
quotes to understand the cost involved in replacing and fitting the parts identified by the 
engineer. 
Two days after the initial call out, the boiler stopped working again. Mr T contacted RSA. It 
provided a £50 heating allowance, while it obtained a quote for the potential work required.
RSA says when it received the quote it asked its engineer for his opinion on whether the 
boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). It says it was not guaranteed that replacing the 
identified parts would fix the boiler. The engineer confirmed it was not in good condition and 
believed it should be deemed BER.  
Mr T disputed his boiler was BER as he says it was now working. He also says the engineer 
had removed the pressure gauge, which he wants replacing as he cant tell if the pressure 
drops. RSA offered to send a second engineer to reassess the condition of the boiler. Mr T 
would have to pay for this, but it would refund the charges if the engineer found that the 
boiler was not BER. 
Mr T did not agree to this and referred his complaint to this service. He obtained a report 
from a private heating engineer, which states, boiler is working satisfactorily. He is unhappy 
that his boiler was deemed BER, with the standard of service he received and with the 
missing pressure gauge.      
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She found that RSA had been fair in 
declining the claim based on the initial fault being intermittent, which is not covered by the 
policy terms. Also, that Mr T had reported his boiler was working, and so there was no claim 
under the policy.  
Mr T was not happy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans review. The complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint, and for broadly the same 
reasons our investigator set out. I appreciate this will be disappointing for him, but I will 
explain why I think this is fair. 
When an engineer first visited Mr Ts home, the boiler was working. This is after Mr T had 
pressed the reset button. The terms of the policy say:
We will provide assistance in an emergency following the complete breakdown of the 
domestic boiler and/or central heating system which results in the complete loss of heating 
and/or hot water.
There was a complete breakdown of the boiler when Mr T first phoned RSA. Therefore, it 
was appropriate for RSA to send an engineer. However, its true to say the boiler was 
working when the engineer arrived, and so technically there was no claim under the policy. It 
stopped working again a couple of days later, but I understand Mr T was again able to get it 
working and it has continued to work since.
Mr T disputes his boiler should be considered BER, because its still working. He has 
provided a report from a heating engineer to support the boiler is working satisfactorily. 
BER is defined in the policy as:
BEYOND ECONOMICAL REPAIR In the opinion of our approved engineer, we are unable 
to repair your boiler.
I have thought about whether RSAs decision was fair, to say that the boiler was BER. Its 
clear the engineer reported the boiler wasnt in good condition following his inspection. He 
took photos of the plate heat exchanger that shows significant corrosion. I understand there 
are no records to show the boiler has been serviced. The engineer also determined the 
boiler was of some age, approximating this at around 20 years old. 
 
Im not an engineer and must rely on the expert information provided. I acknowledge the 
report Mr T obtained. However, I find the information RSA has provided persuasive, in that it 
was reasonable to conclude the boiler was BER. This is based on its age, the description of 
its condition, the absence of maintenance records, together with the assessment of what it 
would cost to carry out repairs without any guarantee of success. 
In considering this, I dont think RSA acted unfairly, in saying the boiler was BER in line with 
the policy terms.
RSA has also referred to the following policy term under the section, We Do Not Cover, 
which says:
Intermittent faults where this cannot be identified at the time of the approved engineers 
attendance.
I acknowledge Mr Ts view that the fault wasnt intermittent, as the boiler has since been 
working without the need to reset it. In addition, he says the boiler only stopped working 
once. I acknowledge his view on this. However, RSAs records include a call log that show 
Mr T told it the boiler had stopped working on two occasions. This second call was logged 
two days after the initial claim. I note this is also when the heating allowance payment was 
agreed, because no heating was available, again indicating the boiler wasnt working. 
Based on these circumstances, where the fault couldnt be identified at the time of the 
engineers attendance, I think its fair to say this fits with the policy definition of an intermittent fault. 
Turning now to Mr Ts complaint that the engineer removed the pressure gauge, which he 
has had to pay to replace. The engineer was asked to comment on this point. Referring to 
the records, he said the gauge was still in place and, its just a little bit of glass that came 
off. I note from the photos the engineer took, the gauge/dial was in place on the boiler 
initially. Mr T has supplied photos with the pressure gauge/dial missing. 
Based on the information available, I cant conclusively establish what happened to the 
pressure gauge/dial. I dont dispute either partys recollection of what happened. However, 
the engineers report states a new pressure gauge was needed. I think that regardless of 
what happened after this point, it was established that a replacement was needed, which is 
Mr Ts responsibility. Because of this I dont think its fair for RSA to pay to replace the 
pressure gauge. 
Finally, I understand Mr T was incorrectly told a second engineer visit would be arranged, 
when a manager called him. This was an error, as it had already been confirmed that Mr T 
would have to pay for the visit unless the engineer determined the boiler wasnt BER. This 
could have been handled better, but I dont think this had a significant impact or affected the 
outcome.   
In summary I dont think RSA acted unfairly in relying on its policy terms when handling the 
claim. So, I cant fairly ask it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman