DRN-2826647
The complaint
Mr P complains that Intrum UK Limited made errors in the management of his account. And 
that this caused a delay in his offer of settlement being accepted. He says that this resulted 
in him experiencing additional stress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr P would be concerned and frustrated that his offer to settle an 
outstanding debt hadnt been processed as effectively as mightve been wished.
Its not in dispute that Mr P owed a debt to Intrum and that hed made an offer to partially 
settle this debt. In early February 2021, he further discussed the matter with one of Intrums 
call handlers. He was incorrectly informed that his offer of £6,000 hadnt been accepted. But 
that Intrum would accept the sum of £9,830.
Intrum has acknowledged that the call handler was unaware that it had already notified its 
collection agent that it was prepared to agree to Mr Ps offer of £6,000 provided that sum 
was paid by 8 February 2021.
In acknowledgement of this error, Intrum issued a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 17 
February 2021 in which it indicated that it would extend the date by which the £6,000 needed 
to be paid until 19 March 2021. And that upon payment it would close his account and not 
pursue further payment. It also stated that it would have his credit file show the default had 
been partially settled but now had a zero balance owing.
Mr P replied to this on 1 March 2021 indicating he was unhappy with the response. As it 
hadnt taken account of all the time that hed spent on following up the issue. Along with the 
stress and inconvenience that hed experienced.
Intrum replied on 16 March 2021 advising that its offer remained open until 19 March 2021.
Ive no doubt that being provided with incorrect information and matters being delayed, 
added to the frustration and inconvenience experienced by Mr P. I fully accept that it was 
important to him to get things settled as quickly as possible. But I feel that this has to be 
viewed in the context of all the circumstances.
Its important to understand that Intrum was under no obligation to accept a lesser sum than 
the full amount it was owed, which in this case was over £16,000. So by agreeing a 
reduction of £10,000, I believe it was making a generous settlement.
I dont accept Mr Ps assertion that he was only given 3 days from 16 March 2021 in order to 
settle the amount by 19 March 2021. His email of 1 March 2021 shows that he received the 
FRL in which the settlement date was first advised. So hed been given around three weeks, 
if not longer, to arrange the payment. And as Mr P had first made the offer of £6,000 in 
December 2020, I infer the money was readily available.
I accept that he was dissatisfied with the initial response to his complaint, but I see no 
plausible reason why this couldnt have been taken further whilst ensuring that the required 
amount was settled by the stipulated date.
In summary, I think that Intrum has done what Id expect it do in the circumstances. Its 
offered an apology for the errors it made. And it extended the date by which it would accept 
Mr Ps offer of partial settlement. In doing so it tried to ensure he was not financially 
disadvantaged by the mistaken information he was given.
I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Intrum to make an 
additional offer of compensation. Or to further reduce the sum it was prepared to accept in 
settlement of the debt.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ps frustration, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Intrum UK Limited.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman