DRN-4154526
The complaint
Miss M complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor insurance
policy and refused to pay her claim.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but Haven is the underwriter of this
policy i.e. the insurer. It is therefore responsible for it, and any references to Haven include
the actions of the companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss M took out a car insurance policy with Haven and her partner Mr W, was a named
driver on the policy. Miss M says they traded in her car and bought a new one and she
amended her policy online to cover the new car. When the car was stolen, she tried to make
a claim.
Haven said Miss M incorrectly answered the question it asked about who owned the car
when she amended her policy. It said Mr W was the owner and registered keeper of the new
car and not Miss M. And it considered this to be a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation,
which entitled it to cancel her policy, decline her claim, and retain the premium shed already
paid.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation but didnt think this was deliberate or
reckless. He believed it was careless. He thought Haven was entitled to decline her claim
but that it should return the premium shed paid. Our investigator agreed Miss M didnt have
an insurable interest as the finance for the new car was in Mr Ws name. So, he said Haven
should pay the trade in value of Miss Ms previous car as this was her financial interest.
Miss M still doesnt think Havens decision was fair. She says they were victims of a theft
and regardless of who the registered keeper of the car was, they were both on the policy.
Haven also doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
It says a careless misrepresentation would have been if Miss M selected spouse or common
law partner. It says Miss M said she was the registered keeper and knew this was not the
case. It also doesnt think paying the trade in value of the previous car is a valid remedy 
under CIDRA.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 May 2023 in which I said: 
Haven has given several policy terms as reasons for cancelling Miss Ms policy. Ultimately it
says Miss M gave untrue information when taking out the policy and therefore it is entitled to
cancel the policy and decline any claims. So, Ive considered whether its treated Miss M
fairly and reasonably in doing so.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Haven provided an example of the form Miss M would have seen when amending her policy
online. The form asks for the registered/owner keeper and provides a drop-down list of
options to pick from. I think it was clear what information it was asking for, and Im satisfied
Haven has shown Miss M stated she was the owner or registered keeper of the car.
Miss M said she traded in her previous car to help towards paying for the new one. However,
the loan was taken out by Mr W and covers more than 90% of the cost of the new car. I think
its fair to say Mr W owned the car. Even if ownership could be disputed, the vehicle
documentation indicates Mr W was the registered keeper. Miss M said it was put in Mr Ws
name because the loan was in his name, so Im satisfied she was aware she wasnt the
registered keeper. As such, I find Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent
information.
Haven has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows that if Miss M had not
misrepresented this information, it would not have offered her cover. This means Im
satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Haven thinks Miss Ms misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It says Miss M knew
she was not the registered keeper of the car. It says a careless misrepresentation would
have been if she had selected spouse or common law partner.
Im not persuaded the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. I think it was careless. I
say this because, Miss M says she doesnt recall answering questions about who owned the
car, she thinks it was down to human error. And Ive not seen enough to show she
deliberately gave false information when completing the form. Miss M was the registered
keeper and owner of the previous car insured under the policy and considering Miss M has 
told us she uses the car more than Mr W did, I can understand how the error might have
happened.
I accept she could have stated spouse or common law partner, but I find that answering in
this way would be more indicative of a deliberate act. Ultimately, Im not persuaded Haven
has met the high bar to conclusively demonstrate this was a deliberate or reckless
misrepresentation.
Ive thought about the remedies available to Haven under CIDRA and Im satisfied under
CIDRA it would have been entitled to avoid the contract. However, Haven chose to cancel
Miss Ms policy with effect from 7 June 2022 and Im satisfied its done so in line with the
terms and conditions of the policy, and I dont think doing so was unreasonable.
It said it would not have accepted the risk if it was given correct information, so it doesnt
think it needs to pay the claim. But I find that by cancelling the policy in this way, its in effect
treated it as active and valid up until cancellation. It therefore must consider any claims
made from inception until cancellation under the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.Declined claim
Haven has given several terms and conditions that support its decision to decline the claim,
but I think the most relevant of them states:
If You do not comply with the General Conditions, We may:
1 Cancel Your policy
2 Refuse to deal with Your claim
It also states:
We will only provide insurance if:
1 Any person insured by this insurance has complied with all the Conditions in this contract
and in the Schedule.
4 The information given in the proposal form or statement of fact and declaration and at each
renewal is, as far as You know, correct and complete.
6 You notify Your Broker as soon as possible of any changes to the information provided in
the proposal form or statement of fact and declaration and at each Renewal 
Its not disputed that Miss M gave incorrect information when amending her policy. So, under
the strict application of the terms Haven is entitled to decline the claim. However, Haven is
also required to take into consideration the law and industry guidelines such as the
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). And ICOBS says a business
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. ICOBS 8.1.2B also says:
a rejection of a consumer policy holder's claim for breach of a condition or warranty (that
is not subject to and within section 10 or 11 of the Insurance Act 2015) is unreasonable
unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach.
So, I dont think an insurer should decline a claim for a breach of policy term if it isnt material
to the loss. Haven therefore needs to show that in Miss Ms case, who she said owned the
car and was its registered keeper had a bearing on the loss claimed for. I dont think it has
shown this. And Im not persuaded Miss M giving incorrect information about the owner of
the car had any connection to the car being stolen. Nor do I think who owned it or who it was
registered under had any bearing on the loss.
Its notes indicate the car was stolen while Miss M was at Mr Ws home. But I can see she
explained to Haven that she would stay at his home from time to time. I understand it said it
wasnt aware of Mr Ws address, but Im satisfied this wasnt where Miss M lived, so I dont
think its something she needed to declare to Haven. And I dont think the fact it was stolen
from outside Mr Ws home is reason enough to decline the claim.
Haven thinks only Mr W had an insurable interest in the car. While the claim was initiated by
Miss M, as Mr W is a named driver under the policy he would also have been entitled to
make a claim for the loss, which Haven would have needed to investigate and potentially
pay in line with the other terms and conditions of the policy.
Section B of the terms and conditions state: If Your Car is stolen and not recovered, subject
to Clause 11 below We will provide the owner of Your Car with settlement of its Market
Value
If a settlement payment is due, Im satisfied the terms do not require the payment to be
made to the policyholder but to the owner of the car. As such, I find its unreasonable to
decline the claim on the basis that Miss M wasnt the owner of the car.Putting things right
I intend to tell Haven to pay Miss Ms claim for the stolen car, and any payment in relation to
the loss of the car should be made to Mr W. It should pay 8% simple interest per year on any
settlement payment it makes directly to Miss M or Mr W.
Ive also considered whether Haven should pay Miss M any compensation. Miss M says its
been difficult to get around with her children without a car. And I think having her claim
declined would have caused additional worry and upset in the already difficult situation of
having a car stolen. So, for this reason, I think £150 compensation is fair
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M accepted my provisional decision and Haven didnt provide a response. As neither 
party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
what I said provisionally.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint and I require Haven 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Miss Ms claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Any 
payments in relation to the loss of the car should be made to Mr W. 
It should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on any settlement payment it makes 
to Miss M or Mr W, from the date of the claim until payment is made. 
Pay £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman