DRN-2090061
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
From March 2017 to 2018, Mr O applied for a series of overdrafts through the mobile app. 
By February 2018, his limit was £2590. In 2019, TSB agreed a payment plan with him.
The limits were:
Date Limit
April 2017 £100
April 2017 £250
September 2017 £600
October 2017 £750
November 2017 £1050
November 2017 £1080
December 2017 £1700
December 2017 £1900
December 2017 £1950
December 2017 £1980
December 2017 
(from FRL)£2000
February 2018 £2590
Mr O complained that TSB couldnt have completed the necessary checks as he couldnt 
afford to borrow the money. 
TSB said they couldnt show what checks were made prior to April 2018 because of their IT 
changes competed then. But they wouldve checked to see that he couldve afforded to 
repay the overdraft. They considered that when he applied for the overdraft, Mr O should 
have considered whether it was right for him. He couldve completed an online affordability 
guide for himself. It was his choice to apply for the overdraft - and ensure he could afford it. 
They agreed a payment plan of £90 per month in October 2019. His income and expenditure 
then showed a surplus of £385. Some overdraft charges for March, April and June 2019 
were refunded and in October 2019, theyd stopped any further charges.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said she believed TSB hadnt 
acted responsibly. TSB did decline some applications in April 2018. She noted that TSB 
agreed a pre-determined limit for customers  based on their credit checks. She could see 
that up to November 2017, TSB completed reasonable and proportionate checks  as Mr O 
kept to the limits, and the turnover of his account looked OK in comparison with the limits. 
But by November 2017, given the frequency of requested increases, more checks shouldve 
been done. By then, the limit was just over £1000 - and his income was about the same as 
that. If TSB had done credit checks at that time, they wouldve seen that Mr O had two other 
credit cards with borrowing at their limits. There was also frequent use of payday loans on 
his TSB statements.  She accepted that Mr O had accepted the terms and conditions of the 
overdrafts when applying for the increases. She thought that TSB should refund any interest 
and charges paid since the last increase in November 2017. And remove any adverse credit 
information on Mr Os credit file in relation to the payment plan or his overdraft.
TSB disagreed and asked that Mr Os complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr O says that TSB shouldnt have lent him more money - they shouldve said no to some 
of the increases. This would have given him a wake-up call to get his spending under 
control. He thought that the process of applying for the increases through the mobile app 
was too easy and got him into more debt.
Ive thought about what both parties to Mr Os complaint have said. And I think that TSB 
couldve done more to ensure they lent to Mr O responsibly  I will explain why.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether TSB 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way.
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
In Mr Os case. TSB told us that they pre-approved limits up to £3000 for customers  they 
did risk analysis and looked at external credit data to do this. And for Mr O, they were happy 
that he passed those checks. So, when he asked for increases, their processes approved 
the limits. So  TSB say they lent responsibly. I can appreciate how TSB approved lending in 
this way, but that doesnt mean that they shouldnt have looked at Mr O requests for 
increases more closely. Unfortunately, TSB cant show us the checks prior to April 2018 
because of their IT changes done at that time.Ive looked at Mr Os statements and credit file. In 2017, they show there were two other 
credit cards with borrowing at their limits. And - a frequent use of payday lending. There are 
also some small payment to betting companies. It does look as if Mr O was receiving 
benefits into the account  of around £1300 per month  so he was unemployed. He told us 
he became unemployed early in 2017.
All of this indicates that TSB shouldve done some further checks  certainly when the 
requests for increases became more frequent, and the limit was at or more than Mr Os 
monthly income  which wouldve been in November 2017 or December 2017. These might 
have included an income and expenditure analysis and checks on Mr Os borrowing from 
other lenders.
I can see that TSB were sympathetic when Mr O contacted them later  in 2019  to say he 
was in financial difficulty. Then, they agreed a payment plan and refunded some interest and 
charges. But  theyve put the payment plan on Mr Os credit file.
So  my decision is that TSB shouldve completed further credit checks from November 
2017. And so  they should refund all interest and charges from 1 December 2017 to date 
(to the extent theyve not already been refunded). And they should remove any adverse data 
from Mr Os credit file from that date also - including the payment plan arrangement. 
I understand that Mr Os payment plan is coming to an end very soon  so it would be 
sensible for him and TSB to agree a mutually acceptable plan from here on to ensure Mr Os 
debt is repaid satisfactorily.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should:
Refund all interest and charges on Mr Os overdraft from 1 December 2017 to the 
date of this decision (where not already refunded).
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Os credit file in relation to his overdraft and 
payment plan.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  TSB Bank plc must:Refund all interest and charges on Mr Os overdraft from 1 December 2017 to the 
date of this decision (where not already refunded).
Remove any adverse entries on Mr Os credit file in relation to his overdraft and 
payment plan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman