DRN-2580552
The complaint
Mr G complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd denied the claim he made on his life and critical 
illness assurance policy.
Mr G has a personal representative, Mrs G, who has raised this complaint for him, but for 
ease in my decision I will refer to her actions and comments as those of Mr G.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G applied for a 14-year fixed term life and critical illness assurance policy 
with a sum assured of £20,000. He did so via an independent financial advisor (IFA). 
The application was successful, and the policy was set to begin on 18 September 2019. 
On the day the policy went live Zurich sent Mr Gs IFA a copy of his application as well as 
sending him his policy documents.
Sadly, a short while later Mr G was diagnosed with Parkinsons disease and on 
1 December 2019, he contacted Zurich to make a claim. 
On 19 December 2019 Zurich wrote to Mr Gs treating consultant and his GP to request 
medical information to help its assessment of the claim. It received the consultants report on 
31 December 2019 and the GP report on 17 January 2020. Based on the evidence it 
received, Zurich was concerned Mr G may have answered some of the questions on his 
application incorrectly. 
Zurich then contacted Mr G on 10 February 2020 to ask about the non-disclosure. 
Following that discussion, it contacted his GP to better understand when Mr Gs symptoms 
first started. The GP responded on 25 February and this information was then reviewed. 
On 23 March 2020 Mr G contacted Zurich to complain about the delays to the claim. 
On 25 March 2020 Zurich then contacted Mr G to tell him his claim had been declined. 
It felt Mr G had carelessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing to disclose certain 
information. In particular, the medical records showed:
Mr G went to the GP on 10 August 2018 for a number of medical issues. One was an 
intermittent tremor in his left ring finger.
Mr G went to the GP on 2 August 2019 having had intermittent left leg twitching for 
several months.
On 16 August 2019 the GP notes showed Mr G had blood tests due to a history of 
intermittent left leg twitching. It notes he also had a tremor in his left finger.
Mr G attended his GP on 21 October 2019 after which he was referred to a neurology 
clinic. The referral letter from the GP said that for about 14 months Mr G described 
what sounds like constant right sided weakness and tremor. A similar tremor is 
reported in his left leg but with no weakness. His left side grip/coordination is 
described as poor. It also mentions some slurring/slowing in speech and a slowing 
down in activity levels.
Mr G attended the Neurological clinic in November 2019 and the records note a 12-
month history of tremor affecting fingers on his left hand which had progressed into 
the left leg. Mr G also noted loss of fine motor control in his left hand.
The questions Zurich was concerned with were:
Recent health
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in the application, 
have you had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment 
for: any tremor, numbness, loss of feeling or tingling in the limbs or face, blurred 
vision, loss of balance or co-ordination, epilepsy, seizure, or loss of muscle power?
Current health and family history
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in this 
application: are you aware of any symptoms that you intend to seek medical advice 
or treatment for, or are you waiting for any test results, appointments or 
investigations with your doctor or other medical professional?
Current health and family history
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in this 
application: in the last 3 months have you had any symptoms of ill health, such as 
unexplained bleeding, weight loss, change of bowel habit, unexplained lump or 
growth, breathing problems or shortness of breath, or a cough thats lasted for 4 
weeks or more?
Mr G had answered no to all three questions. The only symptom detailed above that Mr G 
disclosed to Zurich was tiredness  this had led to blood tests and Mr G had been given folic 
acid. Zurich said that had it known about Mr Gs other symptoms, in particular the tremors, it 
would have postponed cover until they had been diagnosed. These investigations ultimately 
led to Mr Gs Parkinsons diagnosis a few months later. Zurich said that if it had assessed 
Mr Gs application at this stage, it would have then charged Mr G a higher premium for his 
life assurance as well as adding two exclusions to the critical illness cover for dementia 
(including Alzheimers disease) and Parkinsons disease/Parkinson plus syndrome. 
Zurich said Mr G could continue his policy with these exclusions applied and a sum assured 
proportionate to the premiums hed been paying. It recalculated Mr Gs sum assured as 
£17,298. Ultimately, Mr G didnt consent to continuing the policy on these terms and so 
Zurich avoided (cancelled from the start) the policy and refunded the premiums.
After receiving the claims decision, Mr G raised a further complaint, asking for the claim to 
be reconsidered.
Zurich looked into his complaints and partially upheld them. It said its communication with 
Mr G when handling the claim had, at times, fell below the standards it expected. It offered 
him £100 compensation for this and told him feedback would be given to the individuals 
involved. But it maintained that its claims decision and the proposed revision of the policy 
terms was fair.
Mr G disagreed and brought his complaint to our service. Mr G told us that in August 2019 
the doctor dismissed the conversation about his shaking leg and confirmed there was 
nothing wrong. Mr G stressed there were no ongoing investigations. Mr G said hed been to 
the doctors feeling quite lethargic and had blood tests, but hed disclosed this. He noted that 
as a result of this Zurich had contacted the GP and so had access to his medical records 
prior to the start of the policy. He didnt think it was fair it was now declining his claim on the 
basis of information it had access to. Mr G also told us he hadnt heard the word tremor being used until his October 2019 consultation  he noted he was not diagnosed with 
tremors and that this term was a medical term that an average person might not understand.
Our investigator looked into things and was of the opinion Zurich had acted reasonably and 
that there had been a careless misrepresentation. They felt the £100 compensation for poor 
communication was reasonable and didnt think any delays to the assessment of Mr Gs 
claim were Zurichs fault.
Mr G disagreed and so the matters been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I begin, Id like to say I was sorry to hear of Mr Gs diagnosis. After reading the 
information Mr and Mrs G have sent our service, and having listened to Mrs Gs calls, Im 
aware that this has had a profound impact on both their lives.
When assessing Mr Gs complaint, Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which 
is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also 
considered the industry guidance that was in place at the time Zurich made its decision. 
This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice 
Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection 
Insurance Products April 2019. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific. 
The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the 
opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or careless. Where a misrepresentation is 
careless, if the insurer would have entered into the contract on different terms aside from 
premium cost, ie. it would have applied an exclusion, then it can continue the policy on the 
terms it would have offered. If that exclusion means the insurer would have charged a higher 
premium, CIDRA states it should then proportionately settle any accepted current or future 
claims. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
Before I examine the questions asked, I note Mr G thinks its unreasonable that Zurich had 
access to his medical records prior to the application, and yet it still offered cover. 
Mr Gs point here is that Zurich had access to the medical information that its now relying on 
to decline his claim. 
I think its important to note that the information Zurich requested prior to the start of the 
policy was specific to the disclosed medical issue it was looking into at that time  in this 
case the blood tests. So, it didnt receive any information about Mr Gs tremors or twitching 
until it started looking into Mr Gs claim. I think it would be helpful to explain that insurers usually take the answers they receive in an 
application form on good faith because it would be impractical for an insurer to check all 
applications for issues or errors. This approach is accepted as reasonable industry practice. 
So, although insurers are given permission to access medical records, they often do not do 
so. And even where they opt to request information in relation to certain medical issues, like 
in Mr Gs circumstances, insurers wouldnt normally ask for complete medical records to 
check for non-disclosures elsewhere in the application. For these reasons, whilst Mr G might 
feel as though Zurich ought to have found out about the mention of tremors in his record, I 
dont think this is something that can be fairly expected of it. 
But in light of the fact medical information isnt always checked at application, I would expect 
Zurich to make clear the importance of answering questions accurately. 
I can see that on the date the policy went live Zurich wrote to Mr Gs IFA, providing a copy of 
Mr Gs application. Having reviewed this, I can see this letter gave Mr G the opportunity to 
amend any answers and stressed the importance of ensuring the information was accurate - 
it told him to let Zurich know if any of the answers were now incorrect or if there had been 
any changes before the policy start date. It also clearly warned that incorrect information 
could mean Zurich might cancel the policy or be unable to pay a claim. So, Im satisfied that 
Zurich gave Mr G the opportunity to check his answers and stressed the importance of this. 
I also think Zurich was clear that Mr G needed to ensure his answers hadnt changed since 
he completed the application several months earlier. So, whilst I appreciate some of Mr Gs 
appointments relating to his symptoms were post application, I think he ought to have known 
he needed to reflect any changes in his health that may have occurred before the policy start 
date. Given this, I think its fair for Zurich to expect Mr Gs application answers to be an 
accurate as of the 18 September 2019.
As outlined in CIDRA and the code I would also expect the questions Zurich asked to be 
clear and not misleading - Ive looked at the question I consider to be key here which is:
Recent health
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in the application, have you 
had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for: any tremor, 
numbness, loss of feeling or tingling in the limbs or face, blurred vision, loss of balance or 
co-ordination, epilepsy, seizure, or loss of muscle power?
Mr G answered no, but his medical records show hed experienced tremors in his finger and 
leg within the 14 months prior to the policy starting. The medical records also indicate this 
had been ongoing for months. I agree with Mr G that he hadnt been given any treatment for 
this. But the question asks have you had, or been advised to take any medication or 
have any treatment for The two parts to this question are separated by an or, not an 
and, and the options are even separated by a comma to make it clear they are two 
separate points. Given this, I think a reasonable consumer would understand that the insurer 
would want to know if a consumer had had any of these symptoms, even if they hadnt taken 
medication/received treatment.
Based on the medical information Ive seen, Im also satisfied Mr G had experienced tremors 
prior to the start of his policy. I appreciate Mr G has also stressed the doctor told him there 
was nothing wrong. But Id note that the question doesnt ask whether Mr Gs doctor was 
concerned by any of these symptoms. It just asks if hed experienced them. So whilst I can 
understand why this might have made Mr G more likely to overlook the symptoms when he 
was completing the application form, I think Zurich can fairly say an answer of no would still 
be an inaccurate response to this question. Ive considered what Mr G has told us about tremor being a medical term. He also said that 
prior to his October consultation he had never heard this used to describe the symptoms he 
was experiencing. And whilst his symptoms are described as such in the notes of two 
doctors prior to his policy beginning, I acknowledge that doctors dont always use the same 
words to describe symptoms when speaking to their patients. That being said, I dont think 
tremor is a particularly unusual or technical term that an average consumer wouldnt 
understand. It is also used in non-medical contexts, for example to describe earthquakes or 
the impact of shocking news. So, whilst Id agree that a non-medical professional might be 
more inclined to use other terms like shaking or trembling, I think a reasonable consumer 
would understand these symptoms are covered under the category of tremor. Given this, I 
think Zurich asked a clear enough question here and I think a reasonable consumer, 
experiencing Mr Gs symptoms, can be fairly expected to answer yes even if the word 
tremor hadnt been used by their doctor. And even if Mr G was completely unaware of what 
the word tremor meant, in these circumstances, I think Zurich can fairly expect him to have 
made enquiries about what this question was asking him, as part of ensuring his answers 
were accurate.
For all of these reasons, I think its fair that Zurich has said Mr G made a misrepresentation 
here. 
Was Zurichs claims decision and revision of the policy fair?
Zurich categorised Mr Gs misrepresentation as careless which the code explains covers 
anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious negligence. 
And I think this is reasonable given Mr Gs has provided an explanation for why he didnt 
think he needed to disclose this information. Albeit that Im satisfied he did need to disclose 
it. He also made other disclosures in his application. I dont doubt Mr Gs testimony that 
there was no dishonest intention behind his answers. 
Zurich has said that had it been told about Mr Gs symptoms it would have awaited the 
results of the investigations into this. Ultimately, these led to Mr Gs Parkinsons diagnosis 
and at this point Zurich has explained it would have offered Mr G cover but on different 
terms. Zurich has said it would have added exclusions around dementia and Parkinsons for 
his critical illness cover and it would have charged Mr G a higher premium for life assurance. 
Having reviewed the underwriting guidance, Im satisfied that this is fair. 
So, whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, I think it was reasonable 
for Zurich to turn down the claim for Parkinsons disease as this is a condition that would 
have been excluded from the critical illness cover Mr G would have been offered. I also think 
it was fair for Zurich to revise the policy on the basis of the terms it would have offered - this 
includes proportionately recalculating the sum assured as per CIDRA. I can see Mr G 
decided not to continue with the policy on this basis, and so Zurich has refunded all of the 
premiums, which is also in line with CIDRA and what Id expect. Overall, I think Zurich has 
acted reasonably here.  
Claim handling
Having looked at the claim timeline, I dont think Zurich unduly delayed things. I appreciate it 
took some time for Zurich to reach its claims decision, but I think it requested information 
reasonably promptly and reviewed things within reasonable timescales. It will often take 
longer to assess a claim where an insurer identifies possible misrepresentation, as this 
needs to be fully examined and considered. I note Zurich has already awarded and paid 
Mr G £100 compensation for the areas where it feels its communication fell below the expected standards and Ive seen no evidence that persuades me it needs to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman