DRN-2666851
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt provide him with a courtesy car as part 
of his motor insurance policy when he was involved in an accident in March 2020. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K logged the accident with Aviva on the day it happened. When asked whether 
the car was driveable, he answered Yes. So I see no reason for Aviva to have 
thought, at this stage, that a courtesy car was required. 
Avivas terms and conditions say that it aims to provide a courtesy or hire vehicle 
within one working day if the vehicle is immobile or unroadworthy. But further to the 
information Mr K gave initially, the car was inspected by an engineer on 3 April 2020 
(with a decision date of 9 April 2020) and was deemed roadworthy. So it follows 
that Aviva wouldnt provide a courtesy vehicle as the car was roadworthy. 
Aviva agreed to pay a cash in lieu of repair settlement on 14 April 2020. The terms 
say that if the vehicle cant be repaired, a courtesy car would be provided for up to 14 
days or until the settlement is received, whichever is earliest. I can see that Aviva 
tried to arrange a courtesy car while the settlement was being processed but that this 
was ultimately put on hold by the company that wouldve provided the car as Mr K 
had reported symptoms of Covid-19. But I dont think I need to consider this further 
as it still stands that Mr K had a car that had been deemed roadworthy.
So based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by not providing Mr K with a courtesy car. But it did offer £75 in compensation for not 
being proactive at the start of the claim. Aviva said it shouldve made him aware that 
he could have had use of a courtesy car up until the date he received the cash-in-lieu 
payment and also could have booked a hire car sooner than it tried to. I think £75 is 
fair to reflect what happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman