DRN-3484107
The complaint
Mr K complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) recorded a default on his credit 
file after he sold his car and transferred the battery lease to the new owner.
What happened
Mr K entered into a hire agreement with RCI for the battery for his electric car. He sold the 
car to somebody else in May 2021 and the purchaser signed the transfer documents to 
transfer the lease for the battery to them. Mr K told us:
He sent the completed transfer documents to RCI and then cancelled his direct debit 
because he was under the impression that RCI would process the battery lease 
transfer to the cars new owner;
RCI told him the lease agreement was in arrears and it hadnt received the 
completed agreement for the transfer of the battery lease from the cars new owner;
RCI said he was responsible for the lease until the transfer has been successfully 
completed;
he contacted RCI several times to tell it that hed sold the car and sent the paperwork 
to the new owner, and as a result he shouldnt be responsible for the monthly 
payments or the outstanding balance from the point the car was sold;
he complained to RCI about the arrears and although it agreed to waive the arrears, 
it wouldnt remove the fault from his credit file.
RCI rejected this complaint. It said Mr K was required to transfer the battery lease to the 
cars new owner by completing and returning a battery transfer form. It explained that Mr Ks 
lease would only be terminated once the new owner had signed and returned their new 
contract. And it said this process was clearly stated on the credit agreement.
RCI said that by cancelling his Direct Debit, Mr K failed to make six monthly payments and it 
had to report this to the credit reference agencies. It said it had subsequently offered to 
waive the arrears as a gesture of goodwill and the records on Mr Ks credit file showed the 
debt had been satisfied.
RCI told us that the instructions for transferring the battery lease are extremely clear in the 
documents we provide to the customer. The customer is told to wait to hand over the vehicle 
until they have confirmation of the new owner having signed the new lease document to take 
over payment for the battery. The initial customer remains liable for any payments due until 
this process has been completed. And it said it had a legal obligation to report an accurate 
reflection of Mr Ks finance agreement to the credit reference agencies.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that Mr K hadnt followed the required process to transfer the battery lease and the 
associated liability to the cars new owner. And he was satisfied that this was clearly stated 
on the relevant paperwork.
Our investigator said that RCI had been in contact with Mr K on several occasions to discuss 
the arrears, and to remind him that he remained liable for the monthly payments until such 
time as the new owner had completed and returned the new battery hire agreement. And a 
default was added to Mr Ks credit file under the terms of the battery hire agreement. He said 
that although RCI agreed to waive the outstanding arrears as a gesture of goodwill, it didnt 
need to remove the default; marking it as settled was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr K disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says RCIs actions are a scam; 
it didnt send him a default notice, which it should have done; and the default should be 
removed from his credit file as its caused him issues securing a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what hes 
already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
In April 2019, RCI wrote to Mr K. It said it was delighted hed bought an electric vehicle with 
battery hire through RCI. It confirmed his monthly payments under the finance agreement 
and it also enclosed Battery Hire Transfer Documents, in the event Mr K chose to sell his 
car, and some FAQs with answers.
The second question in the FAQs says, What do I need to do when I sell my vehicle?  The 
answer given states You must complete the relevant Battery Hire Transfer Document 
enclosed with this letter and follow the instructions on the second page of this document. It is 
very important that you follow these instructions and ensure that we have confirmed that the 
transfer has been processed before you release the vehicle to your buyer, otherwise you will 
remain liable for the battery hire payments.
I think its likely that Mr K read this section  he had to do so in order to be aware of the need 
to complete the Battery Hire Transfer Document. And its clear that until RCI confirmed that 
the transfer had been processed, Mr K would continue to have liability for the monthly 
battery hire payments.
Next, Ive looked at the Battery Hire Proposal Form that Mr K sent to us. He completed and 
signed this form on 15 May 2021. At the top of the form it says This form must be used to 
apply for transfer of responsibilities for battery hire from one hirer to another. Completion of 
this form will not complete the battery hire transfer; the new hirer will be required to sign a 
new Hire Agreement. I think the purpose of this form is clear, as is the fact that simply 
completing the form doesnt complete the actual transfer of the battery hire.
There are also some notes that accompany this form. These notes confirm that The 
registered hirer will remain liable for the battery and the rentals until the new hirer signs a 
new hire agreement with RCIRCI will confirm when this has been done.
Im satisfied that Mr Ks ongoing liability for both the battery and the monthly payments due 
under the credit agreement is clear  hes liable for both until such time as the new hirer has 
signed a new agreement and this has been confirmed by RCI.
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Mr K needed to keep making the monthly 
payments  he was responsible for them until RCI confirmed the liability for the battery had 
been transferred. And when he mistakenly cancelled his direct debit mandate, RCI was 
legally obliged to accurately report these arrears and the subsequent default to the credit reference agencies. So, I cant ask it to amend the credit file because I dont think its done 
anything wrong. And I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Mr K says RCI didnt send him letters about the arrears or the default notice that its obliged 
to do, so Ive thought about this very carefully. RCI has provided copies of the 
correspondence it says it sent Mr K  6 letters between 18 June 2021 and 20 September 
2021  and I can see the copy letters and copy default notice were sent to Mr Ks correct 
address. And I havent been told about any reason why Mr K might not have received the 
correspondence (like problems with his post). So, Im satisfied the letters and default notice 
are more likely than not to have been correctly delivered.
Ive noted Mr Ks concerns that his credit rating has been affected. He says its having an 
effect on his ability to secure a new mortgage. 
Mr K might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his 
credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case 
Mr K, to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take 
into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, Mr K should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman