DRN-3167941
The complaint
Mr Y complains how QIC Europe Ltd (trading as Policy Expert) has handled his claims under 
his home emergency policy. Mr Y is unhappy the initial call out charge wasnt disclosed prior 
to starting the policy. Mr Y feels this information should be provided so he can compare 
policies and make an informed decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr Y started his policy on 11 July 2020. Policy documents were made available. The policy 
allows two claims per policy year. Each claim has a limit of £250.
On 30 December 2020, Mr Y contacted Policy Expert for assistance. He had no hot water at 
his property. Policy Expert said Mr Y was given the choice of appointing his own contractor 
or for Policy Expert to send a contractor. Mr Y chose for Policy Expert to send a contactor 
and the contractor attended the property on 31 December 2020. During the inspection, the 
contractor identified that there was an intermittent fault and a part would be required to fix 
the issue. The call out was registered as a claim and the cost of the contractor (£232) was 
covered by the policy.
Mr Y contacted Policy Expert again on 1 January 2021 for the same issue. And advised it he 
didnt want to use their contractor and wanted to instruct his own. Policy expert said it 
explained he was within his right to do this and would reimburse him the cost, up to the claim 
limit. Policy Expert also agreed to pay Mr Y for the purchase of heaters up to the cost of £99 
this wasnt subject to the claim limit. 
The repair costs were £265. This was registered as a second claim. Policy Expert paid £250 
towards the cost of Mr Ys contractor repairs. 
Mr Y contacted Policy Expert in April 2021 as he didnt have any hot water. Policy Expert 
declined his claim as he had used all but £18 of his policy limit for the policy year and this 
wouldnt cover a call out cost.
Mr Y contacted Policy Expert in July 2021 as there was a problem with his shower. Although 
there was no cover for this, Policy Expert offered to pay for the cartridge required to fix the 
problem as gesture of goodwill.
Mr Y complained to Policy Expert and with no response to his complaint, he referred a 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint. In summary, she said the policy allowed Policy 
Expert to appoint its own contractor and the amount it paid its contractor was a commercial 
decision and not something our Service could become involved in. The investigator said that 
there was no responsibility on the part of Policy Expert to disclose contractor costs prior to 
starting the policy and even if it had done so, there was no guarantee that these costs would 
be applicable at the time of a claim. Finally, the investigator said Policy Expert didnt do 
anything wrong when outsourcing complaint handling to a third party.
Mr Y responded. He said:
any plumber wouldnt charge more than £50 to diagnose a fault and therefore the 
amount Policy Experts contractor charged was unreasonable;
the temporary heaters werent part of the claim;
he is allowed two claims per year. Classing the call out when Policy Experts 
contractor attended as one claim, and when the fault was fixed as the second claim, 
Mr Y has denied one rightful claim;
the shower fault cost very little to resolve;
he accepts Policy Expert has the right to outsource claims, but they made him run 
around between Policy Expert and the claims handling service which was 
unreasonable.
The investigator responded. She said the crux of the matter was the amount Policy Experts 
contractor charged for diagnosing the fault and that our Service wont interfere with this 
commercial decision. She disagreed that by classifying the 31 December/1 January call-outs 
as two call-outs, Mr Y was denied a rightful claim.
She acknowledged the cost of the heaters didnt fall under the policy limit. And having 
considered the correspondence received from Mr Y, she wasnt persuaded that Mr Y was 
made to run around between Policy Expert and claims handling service. The evidence 
suggested Mr Y only corresponded with Policy Expert.
The complaint has been referred to me, an Ombudsman, to issue a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Contractor cost
Ive looked at the policy documents it says under claim limits:
1.We will pay up to £250(including VAT) for each claim for emergency work for covers 
1 to 4, with a maximum limit of £500 (including VAT) in any period of insurance 
I understand the reason why Mr Y is unhappy with the cost of the Policy Experts contractor. 
But I understand Mr Y was given the opportunity to appoint his own contractor when he was 
without hot water in December 2020.
I acknowledge Mr Ys concerns about Policy Experts contractors fee because it has an 
impact on his policy benefit. But this was an emergency contractor that was required to 
attend the property during the festive season. This will have an impact on cost. And the 
amount that contractor charges Policy Expert to attend is not something our Service would 
become involved in, as this is a commercial decision.
The policy documents clearly show under the emergency work section the contractors cost 
for emergency work is limited to:
1. call-out charge
2. labour charge for the repair: and
3. the costs of parts and materialsAnd from what Ive seen I dont think the calls outs in December 2020/January 2021 being 
classed has two claims has disadvantaged Mr Y. Policy Expert could have dealt with the 
issue in December/January as one claim but the maximum it wouldve paid towards costs 
would be £250. As the total call out/repair costs was £482, the remaining amount of £232 
would have been Mr Ys responsibility. Instead Policy Expert classed the issue as two claims 
and paid £232 (for the initial contractor) plus £250 it reimbursed Mr Y for the cost of repairs 
that he paid to his contractor. Having two claims meant Mr Y didnt have to pay for the 
repairs. I think Policy Expert were trying to assist Mr Y and Im satisfied its approach was fair 
and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr Y feels if it had been registered as one claim then when he had an 
emergency in April 2021, he mayve been able to claim. But that is with the benefit of 
hindsight and he wouldve also had to have paid £247 out of his own pocket in December 
2020/January 2021 Ultimately Mr Y has had the maximum benefit from the policy. 
Finally, whilst it would be helpful for Policy Expert to disclose contractors fees to help 
compare policies, I dont think it has a duty to do this. And as the investigator said, even if 
this information was disclosed prior to the start of a policy, the contractor fee charged at the 
time of the claim could be different.
Complaint handling
Mr Y mentioned the inconvenience he was put to when having to liaise with Policy Expert 
and its claim handling service, when dealing with this claim and referred to the copies of 
correspondence he sent to our service.
Mr Ys copy correspondence and complaint form referred to his dealing with Policy Expert 
and its claim handling service during the complaint rather than his claim. So, Ive considered 
the complaint handling rather than claim handling. Having looked at the correspondence 
received from Mr Y, he only contacted Policy Expert during the complaint and not the claims 
handling service. So, I dont think he was inconvenienced as he said. I therefore wont be 
asking QIC Europe Ltd to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman