DRN-4038941
The complaint
Ms S complains about Trading 212 UK Limiteds (T212) decision to postpone an increase in 
margin requirements for all Contracts for Differences (CFD) on stocks, hours before the 
market opened. 
What happened
On 26 November 2020, she received a notification about her CFD account with T212. It said 
they were increasing their margin requirements for all CFD on stocks to 50% the following 
day at 15:30. They explained that this meant the existing leverage would increase to 1:2 and 
if she had any open positions this would affect her account margin level and may lead to 
automatic closure of her positions, if she didnt have sufficient funds.
She felt she wasnt given enough time to have gathered funds from other accounts or borrow 
money as this would take at least 4 to 5 days which left her with no choice but to close her 
positions. The following day, they issued a further notice that the increase in margin 
requirement had been postponed until 1 December 2020 by which point Ms S had already 
closed 15 positions realising losses of around £11,000, so she complained to T212. 
They issued a final response in November 2020 saying the changes to margin call were due 
to extreme market conditions and the need to ensure a stable market. They are allowed to 
do this within the terms of the client agreement and are not liable for any losses that may be 
incurred as a result.
As the margin requirement changes were not implemented when initially intended, T212 
agreed to make a good will gesture and offered Ms S the difference between the price she 
closed her position at and the best available price until the market opened on 1 December 
2020 which was $1,813.43. This amounted to £2,748 for the trades they say were affected, 
so they offered Ms S £2,800.
Ms S didnt understand how T212s calculations were made and believed they were 
responsible for her losses and should refund it all. She says she would not have closed 
these positions if it wasnt for T212s initial announcement to increase her account margin.
In addition to her losses, she is also seeking compensation for the distress thats been 
caused to her. So, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said only five of the positions Ms S 
complains of were closed before the US market opened. As she had been informed the 
changes were being postponed before the US market opened, he didnt think T212 were 
responsible for any losses she incurred on positions after this. He agreed with the T212s 
calculations and that the offer was fair and reasonable. 
Ms S didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Customer Service
As a regulated business, T212 has several obligations they must adhere to. They have a 
certain amount of commercial discretion regarding how they operate, the products and 
services they choose to offer. There is no requirement for a business to continue to engage 
with a consumer once a final response letter has been issued within the given eight weeks, 
and a referral to this service would be the next step. I appreciate her dissatisfaction at the 
customer service shes received, but it is not for this service to tell a business how it should 
operate, unless there is evidence of wrongdoing which I cant say there is here.
Notice period
The Client Agreement which Ms S agreed to at account opening details the terms of the 
account and the agreement between T212 and Ms S. Clause 6.9 says T212 were within their 
rights to make changes to the margin requirements where necessary. Ms S doesnt dispute 
this point and focuses her complaint on not having enough time in between the initial margin 
increase notice and the proposed change implementation. So, Ive looked at what notice 
they have given her and whether this was sufficient.
They notified her of the margin increase in writing on 26 November 2020, giving her 24 
hours notice. I understand why Ms S would feel this wasnt enough time, particularly as she 
wasnt able to deposit additional funds in that timeframe, however, the wider circumstances 
at that time need to be considered. There was greater market volatility and so with prices 
moving rapidly, the need to make changes quickly would be increased. This is not 
uncommon for this type of trading, and one of the reasons why it is high risk. Given the 
circumstances, I dont think the 24 hours time given by T212 was unreasonable. 
Losses incurred
Upon review of the market situation on 27 November 2020, T212 made a business decision 
to postpone the margin increase until 1 December 2020 and this was communicated to Ms S 
on 27 November 2020. Between 13:50 and 19:47, Ms S closed 15 of her positions at a loss 
to manage her margin. Clause 7 of the terms of the Client Agreement are clear in saying 
T212 will not be held liable for any losses incurred as a result of any action theyve taken. In 
addition, the account Ms S holds is an execution only account, which means that T212 were 
not giving any trading advice and any trading decisions made would be considered her own 
decisions. As such, they could not be held liable for any losses incurred as a result of the 
decisions shes made. 
As the changes they intended to make were postponed to 1 December 2020, T212 agreed 
to make a gesture of good will to Ms S. They offered her the difference between the price 
she closed her positions at and the best price available on the market being $1,813.43 on 
the day the market opened on 1 December 2020. They agreed to pay this for all positions 
closed before the notification to postpone the changes was issued - before the US market 
opened on 27 November 2020 at 14:30. 
I appreciate Ms S says she closed her positions because of the announcement to make 
margin increases, but I agree with T212s decision to limit any offers to positions closed 
before the notice to postpone changes had been sent. Any positions closed after this wouldnt be deemed to have been closed as a result of the proposed changes initially 
announced. These are positions that were closed after the market opened, and most likely 
based on movements in the market at that time, so Im not persuaded these were closed in 
order to comply with new margin requirements. 
Putting things right
In terms of T212s calculations, they identified five positions that were closed prior to the 
market opening, positions ending 528, 213, 560, 369 and 643. The investigator has 
explained this in detail, and I also agree with the calculation both the investigator and T212 
use. We need to consider the prices between 27 November 2020 to 1 December 2020 and 
the prices available on their platform at that time. These prices are not identical to the 
underlying market price, because T212 apply their own spread to the market price, so prices 
in the underlying market can only be used as an indication of the actual price. 
In addition, T212 are not liable for all her losses, as the market movement meant she was 
already at a loss of around £6,880 because prices had fallen from her buy price. Closing 
these positions meant the losses were realised, so the correct calculation would then be 
using the difference in the closing price Ms S achieved and the best price available the day 
the market opened. This amounted to $3,741.65 which is £2,748, so they offered £2,800. 
Its difficult to say exactly what she would have done had the margin increase not been 
announced, or to say with any certainty without the benefit of hindsight when she would have 
closed these positions. I know Ms S will be disappointed with my decision, but I agree this 
resolution is a fair and reasonable way to consider any losses she may have suffered as a 
result of the margin increase announcement. As such, I think the offer of £2,800 made by 
T212 is reasonable and they should pay this to Ms S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited. They 
should pay Ms S £2,800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman