DRN-4004804
The complaint
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W complain that AmTrust International Underwriters DAC charged 
them an excess after work was carried out on the common parts of their flats building.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill give only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W are leaseholders of a flat in a development of six flats within a 
Victorian building. When they bought the flat, they took over a ten-year building warranty 
policy underwritten by AmTrust. In short, the warranty covers defects in the building for ten 
years after the development of the flats.
In late 2021, issues were identified with the basement flat in the development. Mrs W, Mr W 
and Mr Ws flat was also inspected and assessed at the time, but there were no issues. 
Repair work was then carried out on the basement flat, but also on the large stone stairs 
leading to the front door of the development.
AmTrusts agents then notified Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W that they were due to pay an excess 
charge of £1,000 relating to the work on the common parts of the building  essentially, the 
stairs leading to the main doorway.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W paid the excess (via a Right to Manage Company set up for the 
building) but made a complaint to AmTrust about it. They were aware that all the 
leaseholders of the flats  who all had the same warranty policy with AmTrust - had been 
asked to pay a £1,000 excess relating to the repairs to the common parts. They thought one 
excess should have been paid between the six flat leaseholders.
AmTrust didnt uphold the complaint. At risk of over-simplification, they said the common 
parts were the joint responsibility of the flats leaseholders (according to the terms of the 
lease). So, each leaseholder had an insurable interest in the common parts. 
And each leaseholder had a policy which covered them  individually  not only for their own 
flat but also for any contribution they had to make towards repair of the common parts. In 
effect, in this case, each leaseholder was making a claim under their own individual policy - 
and each therefore had an excess to pay, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W werent happy with this outcome and brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AmTrust had done anything wrong.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that it was absolutely necessary for the repairs to the common parts 
to be carried out. And rightly, under the terms of the warranties, AmTrust have covered the 
cost of those repairs. 
Theres also no dispute that the leaseholders are responsible for the upkeep of the building. 
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W say theyd be perfectly happy to pay their share of the one excess 
they think should have been charged.
The dispute is about what the policy says  or does not say  about when and how the 
excess will be applied. The policy booklet isnt a great deal of help here  it simply says that 
amount of the excess will be set out in the initial insurance certificate.
That certificate, however, is more helpful. It says the excess is £1,000 for:
each and every separately identifiable cause of loss.
I think the intention is that it should be clear that the policyholder will have to pay an excess 
for each defect in the development which causes damage which has to be rectified. And if 
there are several unconnected defects  even if they are identified at the same time  the 
excess will be payable for each one.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr Ws argument, in essence, amounts to the fact that there is one defect 
at the root of the 2021 claim in question. And so, one excess is payable  with contributions 
to that one excess from each of the leaseholders.
I know Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont agree with that analysis. Ill 
explain why. 
Theyve drawn a comparison with the buildings insurance policy for the block of flats, which 
they say would require only one excess to be paid when a claim is made relating to damage 
to communal areas.
That may be the case, but that is a different type of insurance. And clearly, from what Mrs W, 
Mr W and Mr W tell us, there is one policy to cover the building as a whole. I suspect that 
policy will be in the name of the freeholder, or a body acting on behalf of the freeholder, such 
as a Right to Manage company (RTM).
In that case, there is one policyholder  even though the policy potentially benefits each of 
the leaseholders. That one policyholder pays one excess per claim. And a claim relating to 
the communal parts will be made by the single policyholder (the freeholder, RTM or other 
body)  who pays a single excess.
The warranties provided to Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W  and to the other leaseholders in the 
development  when they purchased the leasehold to the flat, are policies specific to them 
as leaseholders of each flat. The policyholder for the warranty for the flat, in this case, is 
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W. And not an RTM, or other body - or the freeholder. 
The insurance contract which forms part of the warranty then is an agreement between 
AmTrust and Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W. And its terms should always be read in that light.
Taking that into account, the agreement is in effect saying that AmTrust will cover Mrs W, 
Mr W and Mr W for the cost of repairs to damage to their flat caused by defects in the build. 
And, for their share of the cost of repairs to the common parts of the building caused by defects in the build.
It follows that an excess is payable by the policyholder  Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W  for each 
claim that they make under the policy relating to a separate cause of damage (as per the 
terms), whether or not that claim relates to damage to their own flat alone or to their share of 
the costs relating to repairs to the common parts.
Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W say all of this isnt specified explicitly in the policy terms. I agree, but 
Id say it doesnt need to be. In essence, its the necessary  and only - logical conclusion to 
be drawn from the fact that the warranty policy is an agreement between AmTrust and them. 
The policy, in other words, cant reasonably and justifiably be read in any other way.
So, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for AmTrust to ask Mrs W, Mr W and Mr W for an 
excess payment of £1,000 in relation to the repairs to the common parts of their building.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs W, Mr W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W, Mr W and 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman