DRN-3564332
The complaint
Mr F complains that PrePay Technologies Limited (PPT) has been unable to locate a 
payment hes been told was sent to a Utility Warehouse prepaid MasterCard following 
cancellation of his holiday.
What happened
In 2019 Mr F booked a holiday through a travel company A. He paid using a debit card. 
Unfortunately, by the time Mr F was due to travel his plans were affected by the Covid-19 
pandemic and the holiday was cancelled. Mr F was told hed get a refund of the 
accommodation element of the package from A in the form of a credit note. This credit note 
turned out to be unusable as A later ceased trading.
Mr F was told the remaining balance  a little over £700  was sent by the airline T to a 
Utility Warehouse prepaid MasterCard managed by PPT. For ease of reading Ill refer to 
correspondence from Utility Warehouse as being from PPT.
As I understand it, that card was already closed and since then Mr F has been unable to find 
out what has happened to the money he was due. Hes made enquiries of T and PPT but to 
no avail. PPT says it has checked the information Mr F has supplied but has found no record 
of receiving the payment from T. PPT has referred Mr F back to T for further assistance in 
locating the money. Mr F has said hes at a loss to know who is responsible and has asked 
us to look into matters.
Our investigator gathered further information about PPTs policy on tracing missing funds 
and what it did to try to trace the payment. He felt PPT had taken reasonable steps to try to 
assist and that there was insufficient evidence to establish it was responsible for the missing 
money. The investigator noted that Mr F may be able to pursue his enquiries further with T 
or other parties involved in the underlying arrangements, perhaps with the assistance of 
Citizens Advice.
Mr F remains unhappy. Hes asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can entirely understand Mr Fs frustration. He didnt get his holiday or his refund and cant 
find out where the moneys gone. That must be extremely annoying. But there are some 
limitations on the actions we can take and the extent to which we, as a dispute resolution 
service, are able to assist him.
Primarily, we receive complaints about the financial service providers we cover, consider 
them, and where appropriate, we explain what we think that provider needs to do to sort 
things out. However, we dont have any general power to resolve disputes involving multiple 
respondents. Our investigations will sometimes uncover facts that might help a complainant 
to understand whats happened, but the main focus is on whether we think the respondent 
business has dealt with matters appropriately.
In this case, Im satisfied that PPT has received Mr Fs enquiry, has made suitable efforts to 
establish when and how the payment might have been received, and has made a thorough 
search of its records to see if it is holding onto money that should rightfully be paid to Mr F. 
Beyond that, it really is the sending partys responsibility to demonstrate that it has properly 
sent payment, which in general should be in line with payment instructions it has received 
from the intended beneficiary.
It's unclear why T elected to send the money to a prepaid MasterCard. That card wasnt 
used by Mr F to make the original holiday purchase. According to all parties, the card had 
expired before T attempted payment. Indeed, being a gift card issued some time previously, 
its not even clear that it was ever capable of receiving further funds.
With this in mind, I see no reason to find that PPT has acted unreasonably towards Mr F in 
the actions it has taken to look into the missing payment, or in referring him back to the 
sender T to trace the money. This is what I would expect PPT in these circumstances, where 
the transaction evidence isnt sufficient to show that the money was properly sent and 
received. After all, if T acknowledges it owes the funds to Mr F and cant show that it has 
taken appropriate steps to ensure he receives it, the usual position would be that it is T that 
remains liable to him.
My final decision
I do have a good deal of sympathy for Mr F, who appears to be in this situation through no 
fault of his own. I recognise the frustration hes experienced in dealing with matters and in 
trying to get an answer. But as Ive said, in the context of a complaint about PPT I can only 
fairly decide the extent to which PPT carries responsibility for those difficulties. For the 
reasons Ive explained here, Im satisfied PPT doesnt need to take any further action  
subject, of course, to the possibility T provides Mr F with further evidence that demonstrates 
where the money sits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman