DRN-2665904
The complaint
Mr N complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, are charging more interest on his 
personal loan than they should be.
What happened
Mr N took out a loan for £5,000 with Halifax in May 2019 and understood the annual 
percentage rate (APR) of the loan to be 18.4%. But hes calculated Halifax are charging him 
nearly 50% in interest, because by the end of the loan hell have repaid nearly £7,500.
Halifax looked into things and said the APR was correct, they hadnt made any errors with 
the calculations, and the interest is calculated daily with it being applied to the loan balance 
on the first of every month.
Mr N didnt accept this. He says he wasnt told Halifax calculate the interest rate on a daily 
basis, and hes going to find it difficult to continue his repayments when hell have paid 
interest of 50% at the end. So, he asked us to look into things  and in doing so explained he 
had a medical condition which affected how he interpreted the information given to him when 
taking out the loan.
One of our investigators considered all of Mr Ns concerns. She looked at the information he 
was given when taking out his loan, and asked Halifax to provide their calculations of how 
the interest was calculated  both of which she thought Halifax had handled correctly. She 
also thought about Mr Ns medical conditions, but found hed not told Halifax about it when 
taking out the loan, so they couldnt take it into account. Overall, she didnt think Halifax had 
done anything wrong.
Mr N didnt agree. He said hed been pressured into taking out the loan, and as he was 
expected to pay back £7,500, the interest is 50% on the amount borrowed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information I have Mr N took out the loan over the phone. Halifax have said they 
cant provide a call recording of this conversation, so I cant hear exactly how things were 
positioned with Mr N. But Halifax have said the paperwork was sent out to Mr N after the 
phone call  and the evidence I have supports that.
The loan paperwork is signed by Halifax on 22 May 2019, and by Mr N the next day. So, it 
seems as though he had time to consider matters before accepting the loan. Because of 
that, I dont think I can reasonably conclude Mr N was pressured into taking out the loan.
Mr Ns key complaint though is about the amount of interest hes being charged. I do 
understand the argument hes making  which is he took out a £5,000 loan, and hes being 
asked to repay nearly £7,500.
He says the interest rate is 50% because he'll have paid approximately 50% by the end of 
the loan. But the loan is over five years. Halifax have given the annual rate of interest - the 
rate payable over one year. Thats why its different. So, I dont think theyve calculated the 
interest incorrectly.
Like our investigator, I cant see anything to demonstrate Mr N told Halifax about his medical 
conditions  so I dont think I can reasonably expect them to have taken any issues from that 
into account. I understand thatll be frustrating for Mr N, and Im sorry to hear of how it may 
have impacted events in this complaint, but I think itd only be fair to hold Halifax 
accountable for things they knew about.
So, with all that in mind, Ive looked at the paperwork sent to Mr N to see whether it gave him 
clear information about the total amount hed be asked to repay.
The information is set out in a table, and shows:
£5,000  the amount Mr N is borrowing
£124.29  Mr Ns monthly repayment
60  the amount of repayments Mr N needs to make
£7,457.40  the total amount that needs to be repaid
60 months  the length of the loan
17.01% - the annual interest rate which is fixed
18.4%  the annual percentage rate which can be used to compare the cost of this 
loan with other forms of borrowing
Halifax have set out the total amount due to be repaid in the table. So, I think its fair to say 
theyve provided clear information to Mr N about the total amount hed need to repay after 
taking out the loan.
Mr N also said he was concerned about the way Halifax would charge interest, as he wasnt 
told theyd charge it daily. 
But the paperwork also says When you borrow money from us, you have to pay back what 
you borrowed plus interest. We charge daily interest on the amount you owe at the Annual 
Interest Rate and you agree to pay this interest, until you repay the loan in full. This is added 
to your loan balance on your monthly repayment date. Each monthly repayment will pay off 
this interest and some of the loan. So, I cant agree with Mr N that Halifax didnt tell him how 
theyd calculate the interest charges on his loan.
Ive concluded that I cant reasonably say Mr N was pressured into taking out the loan. He 
was also sent the paperwork to review, sign and return to take out the loan  which he did. I 
think this paperwork was clear enough for Mr N to have known how much hed be repaying 
and set out how the interest would be calculated.
I note our investigator asked Halifax for calculation on how the interest would be applied in 
practice which she provided to Mr N. Ive not repeated that in detail here as I dont think its 
needed.
Finally, Mr N has indicated he may not be able to afford to repay the whole loan. If Mr N gets 
in touch with Halifax to express concerns about this, Id remind them theyre required to treat 
Mr N positively and sympathetically.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman