DRN-1179142
 
The complaint
Ms Y complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar) irresponsibly gave her loans which she 
couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Myjar provided to Ms Y between September 2015 and 
December 2016. Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 03/09/2015 25/02/2016 6 £550.00 £159.34
2 25/02/2016 25/07/2016 6 £1,000.00 £298.59
3 25/07/2016 16/12/2016 6 £1,500.00 £450.31
4 16/12/2016 outstanding 12 £2,225.00 £346.58
 
Ms Y said that if Myjar had conducted a proper risk assessment and looked at her credit 
report and existing loans, it wouldve seen that lending to her was irresponsible and the 
loans werent affordable. She told us she was in a debt spiral and taking out loans to pay off 
other loans.
Our adjudicator thought that it wasnt unfair for Myjar to have provided loans 1 and 2 but she 
said the repayment for loan 3 represented a significant proportion of Ms Ys income. So 
there was a significant risk that Ms Y wouldnt have been able to meet her existing 
commitments without having to borrow again  making the loan (and any subsequent loan) 
unsustainable for her. So our adjudicator said that Myjar shouldnt have provided loan 3 or 
loan 4 to Ms Y.
Myjar didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it offered to uphold 
the complaint about loan 4. Myjar sent details showing how it would work out the refund it 
was willing to pay Ms Y in settlement of her complaint. 
We passed this information on to Ms Y  but shes told us she doesnt want to settle the 
complaint on this basis and shed like a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms Y could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Ms Y could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ys complaint. 
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms Y. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks on Ms Ys credit file.As Myjar has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 4 and to 
amend Ms Ys credit file, then I havent considered this loan further save to include it in the 
redress. 
And I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the information Ms Y told Myjar about 
her income and outgoings and what Myjar had recorded about her financial situation, it 
wasnt wrong for Myjar to give her loans 1 and 2. It was early in the lending relationship and 
so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. As it appears that Ms Y hasnt 
raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans 1 and 2, I dont 
think that I need to say more about these loans.  
I will focus on the loan which remains in dispute  loan 3.
I agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Ms Ys case, Myjar 
should reasonably have seen that loan 3 was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have 
provided this loan. I say this because when she asked for loan 3 Myjars records show it 
relied on information showing that Ms Ys income was £1500. 
So Myjar ought to have realised that the repayment of around £450 that Ms Y had to make 
to pay loan 3 worked out at around 30% of her take home pay just for this loan alone  and 
shed have to meet the contractual repayment schedule shed signed up to for this loan for 
6 months. This was such a significant proportion of her income each month that in reality, 
this loan, and any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for her. 
So it follows that it was unlikely that Ms Y would be able to make the monthly repayments on 
loan 3 without taking out another loan to pay this. And Myjar shouldnt have provided it to 
Ms Y given what it could see about her financial circumstances. 
For these reasons, Im upholding Ms Ys complaint about loan 3.
Putting things right
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms Y towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded. (loan 3)
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms Y which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms Y originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans (loan 4), and treat any repayments made by Ms Y as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Ms Y having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Myjar should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to 
step "E". 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms Y. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Myjar should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms Y.
 
E. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Ys credit file for loans 3 and 4. 
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Ms Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Ms Ys complaint and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman