DRN-2176263
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited compelled them to 
cancel their motor insurance policy and declined their claim. Mr H is a named driver on his 
wife, Mrs Hs, policy. He wants Admiral not to pursue him for its costs. 
What happened
Mr H was involved in an incident with another driver where he said there was road rage. He 
made a claim and sent dash cam footage to Admiral. But Admiral said it thought Mr H had 
caused the accident. It declined the claim due to a general condition in the policy. And 
Admiral then said it would cancel the policy, but it gave Mrs H the option of cancelling it. 
Admiral is now seeking to recover its outlay from Mr H and Mrs H. Mr H said an alleged 
witness was fabricated. He said hed made a bad decision at the time because of his then 
frame of mind. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
had continued to react to the other drivers behaviour. He thought Admiral had reasonably 
relied on the policy term that it wouldnt cover reckless or deliberate acts that damaged the 
car to decline the claim. He thought it had reasonably offered Mrs H the option of cancelling 
the policy to avoid future costs. And he thought Admiral was entitled by the policy terms and 
conditions to recover its losses from Mr H and Mrs H.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral held Mr H responsible for the accident. The investigator has already explained that it 
isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing an accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr H the same as someone else in his 
position. 
The policys Section 3 sets out policy exclusions. Cover is excluded where the insured drives 
the car in a way that is likely to cause damage. General Condition 3, Care of Your Vehicle, 
states that the insured is obliged to protect the car from damage. 
I think these are common terms and conditions in motor insurance policies, and I dont find 
them unusual or unreasonable. And I think they are sufficiently brought to the insureds 
attention in the policy document so that Admiral can reasonably rely on them. 
I can see that Admiral relied on the dash cam footage, Mr Hs detailed webform account of 
the incident, and his subsequent explanations to decide to hold him at fault for the incident. 
Admiral also received a witness statement which Mr H thought was fabricated. But I cant 
see that Admiral relied on this in making its decision. 
Looking at Admirals file, when it first reviewed the dash cam footage it decided that it was 
unlikely to be able to defend a non-fault stance. It thought both parties had driven 
inappropriately. And, looking at Mr Hs detailed account of what happened, I think this wasnt 
an unreasonable conclusion to draw. So Admiral thought it might be able to settle the claim 
as split liability, but it referred this to the underwriter for confirmation. 
The underwriter agreed that Mr H could have avoided the incident if he had driven on. 
Instead, Mr H pulled up in front of the other driver at traffic lights. So when the other driver 
moved forward, he collided with the rear of Mr Hs car. Admiral thought Mr H had put the car 
in danger, and so it applied the policy exclusion and condition Ive referred to above and 
repudiated the claim. 
Having looked at the accounts of what happened and the various discussions with Mr H, 
including with our investigator, I cant say that this was unreasonable or unfair. I think 
Admiral reasonably decided that Mr H had become agitated and intimidated by the incident 
and hed then acted inappropriately and failed to protect his car from damage.
Admiral said it would cancel the policy. I can see that this is in keeping with the policy terms 
and conditions as Mr H breached a policy term. Admiral then gave Mrs H the opportunity to 
cancel the policy herself, rather than have it cancelled by Admiral. 
From Admirals notes, I can see that Mr H accepted this to avoid having to declare a 
cancellation and have this affect future premiums. I think this was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Admiral then sought to recover its costs from Mr H. Admiral said that under the policys 
General Conditions, 
Payments made under compulsory insurance regulations and right of recovery If we are 
required to pay a claim under Road Traffic Law or the law of any country in which this policy 
operates (including settling such a claim on a reasonable basis in anticipation of such a 
liability), which we would not otherwise be liable to pay had the law not existed, we shall be 
entitled to recover such payments (including legal costs of reasonably defending the claim) 
we make from you if you or any other insured personcaused the loss directly or 
indirectly caused or permitted the vehicle to be driven by an uninsured driver through 
act or omission, caused this insurance to be invalid.
Admiral was obliged to deal with the other drivers claim, and this was due to Mr Hs actions 
which, as Ive explained above, were in breach of the policy terms and conditions. So I think 
Admiral is entitled by this General Condition to recover its outlay from Mr H and Mrs H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman