DRN-3593014
The complaint
Miss G is a sole trader. She complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined her
business interruption insurance claim and initially provided the wrong reasons for doing so.
Miss G has been helped in bringing this complaint by Mr M. However, for ease of reading Ill
refer to all actions and comments as being those of Miss G.
Reference to Covea includes anything done by its agent.
What happened
Miss G held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. She looked to claim on her
policy in March 2020 after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic.
In May 2020 Covea turned down Miss Gs claim as it said the extension for infectious
disease (which Ill refer to as a radius clause) didnt provide cover.
Covea said that it wrote to Miss G in July 2020 to let her know that a different extension in
her policy (which Ill refer to a public emergency clause) had some similarities to a policy
which was being considered by the High Court as part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys
Business Interruption Insurance test case. Therefore, her claim would be kept under review.
In November 2020, Covea wrote to Miss G to let her know that the High Court judgment
hadnt changed the outcome of her claim. It also referred to Miss Gs policy not providing
cover under a different extension (which Ill refer to as a specified disease clause).
Some aspects of the test case were appealed to the Supreme Court, although this didnt
include the policy which shared a similar clause to Miss Gs. In February 2021, Covea wrote
to Miss G to let her know that the Supreme Court judgment hadnt changed the outcome of
her claim.
Miss G complained to Covea about its decision, the delays and that it had used the wrong
wording. Covea accepted it had initially used the wrong wording to decline Miss Gs claim
and apologised for the confusion. However, it said it had correctly declined her claim and
were correct to keep her updated about the outcome of the test case given that her policy
contained some wording similar to that being considered by the Court.
Unhappy with Coveas response, Miss G brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of her claim. She also didnt
recommend that Covea compensate Miss G for providing the incorrect information about her
claim as it hadnt affected the outcome of the claim.
Miss G accepted that the claim had been fairly declined but said Covea had provided the
incorrect information about why the claim had been declined. Miss G said this had caused
things to go on for longer than they would have done if clearer information had been
provided and requested Covea compensate her for this.
Before I reached a decision, our investigator contacted both Miss G and Covea to
let them know that I was considering awarding £200 compensation to Miss G caused by 
them providing incorrect information.
Miss G didnt respond but Covea didnt agree. They said while the incorrect wording had
been used it hadnt impacted the outcome of Miss Gs claim. They said it wasnt the use of
the incorrect wording which had led Miss G to think she might be covered following the
Supreme Court judgment and so didnt think its error had caused enough distress or
inconvenience to warrant compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Gs complaint on 8 July 2022. In that I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has accepted our investigators opinion that the claim was fairly declined. Therefore,
I will focus my decision on the information Covea provided. However, for completeness Im
satisfied that Covea fairly declined Miss Gs claim as the policy doesnt provide cover for the
circumstances of her claim.
It's not in dispute that Covea used the wrong wording when it initially declined Miss Gs claim
in May 2020. So Ive considered the impact of this error on Miss G.
Covea didnt refer to Miss Gs policy containing a specified disease clause until November
2020. This seems to have alerted Miss G to the error as she pointed it out in her letter of
complaint in January 2021.
Ive considered that Covea fairly declined Miss Gs claim and also that Miss G continued to
query the outcome of her claim even after being given the correct policy wording. I also
recognise that Coveas letters regarding the test case only referred to the Court considering
the public emergency clause and not the radius clause.
However, that doesnt change my view that providing the incorrect reasoning at the start of
the claim caused Miss G unnecessary distress and inconvenience as it meant she wasnt
given the correct reason until November 2020 or an explanation of Coveas error until March
2021, after she complained. I think it would have been frustrating for Miss G to feel that
Covea hadnt understood her policy and I accept Miss Gs point that things have gone on
longer than they would have done without the error.
Im satisfied that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount for Covea to pay Miss G to
compensate for this.
Both Miss G and Covea confirmed that they had no further comments in response to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further comments in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my findings. My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that Covea 
Insurance plc should pay Miss G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman