DRN-3212237
The complaint
Miss J complains about the advice given by an appointed representative of Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited (Bluesky) to transfer the benefits from her deferred defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension arrangement. She says the 
advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Miss J approached Bluesky in October 2017 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
Bluesky completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Js circumstances and 
objectives (I note this records that Miss J declined to provide certain information which I will 
discuss later on.) Bluesky also carried out an assessment of Miss Js attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be conservative. 
On 27 October 2017, Bluesky advised Miss J to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement with a drawdown arrangement and invest the proceeds in four 
investment funds Bluesky deemed matched Miss Js attitude to risk. In summary the 
suitability report said the reason for this recommendation was to enable Miss J to access an 
amount of tax-free cash immediately to clear debts and that her need wasnt able to be met 
by other means.
Miss J accepted the recommendation and in December 2017 the transfer went ahead.
In 2020 Miss J complained to Bluesky about the suitability of the transfer advice because 
she didnt think it was suitable for her. She said that the advice paperwork referred to her 
need to clear debts, but she said she took the tax-free cash and used it for home 
improvements. 
Bluesky didnt uphold Miss Js complaint. In its final response letter of February 20201 it 
said, in summary, that Miss J had an overriding need for cash to clear debts which couldnt 
be met by other options, which were explored and discounted. It said that it clearly explained 
the risks of the transfer and the loss of guarantees and said it considered the advice was 
suitable to meet Miss Js objectives. It added that Miss J told it that she wasnt reliant on her 
pension for her future income needs which is evidenced by the fact that she withdrew a large 
sum of money from her pension in 2020.
Miss J referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Bluesky to pay compensation. In summary they said the advice provided wasnt 
appropriate given the lack of information Bluesky recorded about Miss Js circumstances at 
the time  they didnt think it was possible for it to make an accurate recommendation. They 
said Miss J says she didnt have any debts at the time and spent the tax-free cash on home 
improvements, which didnt suggest she had pressing need to access her pension benefits. 
Overall they didnt think Miss J was given sufficient information to make her aware of the true 
value of the benefits being given up on transfer because there was no evidence that Bluesky 
had completed a transfer analysis, which was a regulatory requirement at the time. 
Bluesky didnt respond to the investigators assessment.
Because it is assumed that Bluesky disagrees with the investigators findings, the complaint 
comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Bluesky should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Miss Js best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer, which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017 and is 3.4% per year for seven years to retirement. The 
share returns that were used to compile this discount rate wouldnt have been significantly 
different by the time of transfer and, if anything, the bond returns would have got lower. So, I 
think it still gives an approximate guide to the upper end of potential future returns.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
Ordinarily I would expect a business to provide me with a copy of the Transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) it produced at the time of the advice to show what the critical yield was. This is 
essentially the average annual investment return required on the transfer value from the time 
of advice until retirement before the provider applies its charges, to provide the same annuity 
income at retirement as the DB pension would have done. Taking this figure into account, 
along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Miss Js conservative attitude to risk and the term to retirement, this would allow me to consider the financial viability of the 
transfer  i.e. did the transfer have the potential for Miss J to be better off in retirement. In 
my view there would be little point in Miss J giving up the guarantees available to her 
through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
But in Miss Js case Bluesky has not provided the TVAS report, despite us specifically 
requesting it when it wasnt included in its business file submission. In its final response 
letter to Miss J, Bluesky said it carried out a TVAS. And it was a regulatory requirement to do 
so at the time of the advice. But because I havent seen it, and none of the other advice 
paperwork refers to it or a critical yield figure, Ive no evidence to show that it did.
Looking at the suitability report, I can see the adviser provided illustrations of the likely 
income Miss J could expect at retirement based on annual fund growth figures of 3.1% and 
6.1%, which were both lower than the income expected from her DB scheme. Furthermore 
the adviser said that in all likelihood the income Miss J could expect would be lower in real 
terms compared to the income from her DB scheme. 
So taking this into account, the term to retirement and Miss Js transfer value, I think its 
likely that the critical yield, had it been calculated, would have been higher than the discount 
rate and the regulators middle projection rate. Because of this, I think Miss J was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with her stated attitude to risk. To have come close to achieving 
what was needed, I think wouldve likely required Miss J to accept a far greater level of 
investment risk than shed indicated she was willing to take. I think the term to retirement 
was a limiting factor in this case.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Js best interests. 
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations, which it appears Bluesky believes was the case here, 
which mean a transfer is suitable despite the likelihood of providing overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility  access to maximum tax-free cash available
It appears that the primary reason for Bluesky recommending the transfer to Miss J was to 
provide her with the maximum amount of tax-free cash to enable her to meet her immediate 
objective of repaying debt, while deferring taking an income until her expected retirement at 
age 65. Bluesky says that Miss J had an overriding need to clear debts and the transfer was 
the only way to raise the funds she needed. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded Miss J had a genuine need to 
access her tax-free cash earlier than her normal scheme retirement age and leave the funds 
invested until a later date.
I can see that the advice paperwork refers to Miss J wanting to clear debts. the Transfers- 
Information Check Form refers to unmanageable debts which Miss J was desperate to 
clear...  
And both the fact-find and suitability report refer to Miss Js objective of repaying debt. But 
the fact-find also records that Miss J did not want to disclose the exact nature of the debts. 
Furthermore its recorded that Miss J refused to complete an income and expenditure 
analysis  it simply says her income was insufficient to meet her monthly outgoings - and 
there are other sections of the fact-find, which says Miss J refused to disclose information, including details of any other pension arrangements she had.
It strikes me as somewhat odd that Miss J would decline to provide details about her 
circumstances and financial position when shed gone to the trouble of seeking professional 
pension advice. Miss J says she didnt decline to provide this information. But in any event, 
without what I consider was important information necessary to determine what was in Miss 
Js best interests, I dont think Bluesky was in a reasonable position to recommend she 
transfer out  I dont think it acted in her best interests. 
Bluesky didnt know the exact nature of Miss Js debt; how long shed had it; the precise 
amount; the terms of repayment including how much Miss J was repaying each month; and 
without a detailed budget planner, Im not persuaded it could reasonably assume that any 
debts were unmanageable. Theres also nothing recorded to say or suggest that Bluesky 
asked Miss J whether shed approached her lender(s) for help or support and/or to discuss 
the possibility of revised payment terms or a payment holiday. I would have expected 
Bluesky to have raised and explored this with Miss J before it went ahead and 
recommended she make an irreversible decision to transfer out of her DB pension scheme.
Bluesky also says that Miss Js DB pension was surplus to her future retirement income 
requirements. But it didnt know what if any other arrangements Miss J had. So Im not 
persuaded it was in a position to reasonably believe this was the case. 
Id add here that Im mindful Miss J hasnt signed the fact-find document. At the end of the 
form where it says client signature it says N/A  Verbal. So Im not persuaded Miss J likely 
saw or had the opportunity to read, review and agree that this document was an accurate 
reflection of her situation and what was discussed at the time.
In any event, Miss J says that she didnt have any debts at the time and she used the tax-
free cash for home improvements. She also said that her DB pension was her only pension 
provision. And based on the evidence provided, Ive seen nothing to contradict was Miss J 
says. For example Miss Js credit score does not reflect someone who had significant 
unmanageable or bad debts as the fact-find referred to at one stage. Given it is less than 
five years since the advice, I would expect any poor credit / repayment history to still be 
reflected in Miss Js credit score had this been the case. In addition looking at Miss Js bank 
statements from around the time leading up to the advice, Ive seen nothing which shows or 
suggests she was under any financial or monthly budgetary pressure  from what I can see 
her income was meeting her normal monthly expenditure. Ive also not seen anything to 
show Miss J was making and/or had stopped repayments to any outstanding debt. 
So taking everything into account, on balance I dont think Miss J did have unmanageable 
debts at the time, which meant she required immediate access to a lump sum to repay them. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence that Miss J was in financial difficulty, which would 
reasonably warrant a recommendation to gain access to her pension benefits as the only 
way to help her rectify things.
Summary
The advisers role here was to really understand what Miss J needed and recommend what 
was in her best interests. Because I think the adviser failed to gather or wasnt provided with 
reasonably sufficient information about Miss Js circumstances and financial position at the 
time, I dont think they shouldve gone ahead and made the recommendation to transfer.But the adviser did recommend Miss J transfer out of her DB scheme, which ultimately I 
dont think was suitable or in her best interests. She was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income. By transferring, I think Miss J was likely to obtain lower overall 
retirement benefits and in my view, because Im not persuaded that Miss J had an 
immediate pressing need to access her pension benefits early for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, there were no other particular or compelling reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this. 
So, I think Bluesky shouldve advised Miss J to remain in her DB scheme.
I now need to consider whether if things had happened as they should have, Miss J wouldve 
gone ahead anyway against Blueskys advice. I think Bluesky argues this in this case 
because it says that Miss J withdrew a significant amount of her remaining pension fund in 
2020, which it says isnt an act of someone who places value on their pension for retirement 
income.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Blueskys advice. I say this because I consider 
Miss J was an inexperienced investor and Im not persuaded she possessed the requisite 
knowledge, skill or confidence to go against the professional advice she was given. I think 
Miss J relied solely on the advice she was given. Miss Js attitude to risk was conservative 
and this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if Bluesky had 
provided Miss J with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why 
it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
As for the subsequent withdrawal  I dont think this means Miss J always intended to 
access her pension benefits early. I dont think the subsequent withdrawal Miss J made was
planned at the time of the advice. It seems to me that Miss J withdrew further funds because
she could, by virtue of Bluesky having made the funds available to her through the transfer. I
think the further withdrawal flows directly from Blueskys failure to act in Miss Js best 
interests by not providing with her with suitable advice.
So if things had happened as they should have, taking everything into account, Im not
persuaded Miss J would have insisted on going ahead with the transfer.
In light of the above, I think Bluesky should compensate Miss J for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Distress and inconvenience
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £250 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Miss J. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Bluesky. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on Miss 
J. Taking everything into account, including that I consider Miss J is now at the age when her 
retirement provision is of greater importance, I think the unsuitable advice has caused her 
distress. So I think an award of £250 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss J, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Blueskys unsuitable advice. I consider Miss J 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.Bluesky must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
In this case, compensation should be based on a normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Js acceptance of the decision.
Bluesky may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss 
Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Js 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss J within 90 days of the date Bluesky receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Bluesky to pay Miss J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Miss J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited should also pay Miss J £250 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited to pay Miss J any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Bluesky 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Miss J any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Bluesky Wealth Management Limited pays Miss J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss J.
If Miss J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Bluesky Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman