DRN-3104026
The complaint
Mr C complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly down valued his property.
What happened
Mr C says he purchased a property in July 2018 and at that time it required refurbishment 
works and was valued at £575,000 by NatWest. Mr B believed it to be undervalued but he 
managed to get the vendor to reduce the purchase price. Two years later when Mr Cs fixed 
interest rate mortgage product was due to expire, having carried out substantial works 
including a rear extension, Mr C requested NatWest to carry out a new valuation, which to 
his disbelief was valued at only £500, 000. Mr C appealed the valuation, but NatWest said 
the valuation was based on the fact his property was old and in a poor condition. Mr C says 
there is no sense behind how the valuer has come to this valuation as house prices havent 
altered dramatically and they havent considered the works he has undertaken on the 
property. Mr C says as a result of this he had to take a less competitive mortgage interest 
rate product with NatWest, which is costing him an additional £60 per month over the next 
five years. Mr C says he wants the property to be independently and correctly valued based 
on its market value at no cost to him.
 
NatWest says they instructed the valuation to be undertaken by an independent and fully 
qualified and competent surveyor, who were members of their panel and the Royal Institute 
of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). NatWest says they rely on the professional opinion of the 
surveyor for the property value. NatWest didnt feel they had done anything wrong here. 
Mr C wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service.
 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt NatWest were entitled to rely on the professional opinion of the valuers they 
instructed. The investigator pointed out the valuation had highlighted issues with the property 
including a part finished extension, which may have impacted on the value given, but 
couldnt see NatWest had made any errors when relying on this report. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been disappointing for Mr C, having carried out 
improvements to his property, only to find the valuation on it was substantially lower than he 
had expected. When looking at this complaint, I will consider if NatWest acted unreasonably 
when they relied on the valuation report they instructed for their mortgage purposes.
From the information provided to this service, I can see Mr C purchased the property in 2018 
for £575,000 at which time he took out a two-year fixed rate mortgage product. Mr C has told 
this service over the following two years, he carried out extensive works on the property, 
including a partially built rear extension. Following this in July 2020 Mr Cs fixed interest rate 
mortgage product was due to expire, so having checked online the house price index figure 
of his property, he felt it was undervalued, so Mr C instructed NatWest to have the property 
valued and paid a fee for this. 
Mr C says he was surprised to see the valuation NatWest had instructed, showed the 
property to be worth only £500,000, some £75,000 less than he paid for it two years earlier 
and this was despite the fact he had carried out substantial improvements to the property, 
including a part completed rear extension. Mr C maintains similar properties in close 
proximity, were valued at substantially higher than his, and he doesnt feel the valuation is 
realistic. Mr C complains as a result, he had to enter into a higher cost mortgage interest rate 
product with NatWest, which over the next five years will cost him an additional £3,600, 
compared to the mortgage interest rate product he feels he should have secured. 
The first thing to say here is I can only comment on whether NatWest acted fairly on relying 
on the valuation report provided to them by their appointed valuers, and not whether the 
surveyor has correctly reported on the property - that is not within the jurisdiction of this 
service.  
Its also fair to say although Mr C may have carried out changes to his property, thats not to 
say it would necessarily mean it would always improve its value. I say this because its 
possible half completed projects/improvements may have a negative impact on a property 
and that is why its  important valuation reports are carried out by professionally qualified 
valuers, which is what happened here. 
What I can say is, I have seen the valuation report and the valuers instructed are NatWest 
panel members with RICS membership, and the surveyor carrying out the valuation was fully 
qualified, working independently of NatWest. Its also fair to say NatWest did appeal the 
report for Mr C which included comparable details of similar properties, provided by him. The 
appeal was considered by a valuation review panel member, but they concluded there 
shouldnt be any change to the original valuation. 
While Mr C may not agree, the review concluded the other properties offered as comparable 
were in better locations and in better condition. In addition, the review concluded Mr Cs 
property was in a poor state of repair, on a busy main road and had a half built rear 
extension which were considered negative factors. So, with that in mind, I cant say NatWest 
have been unreasonable when they relied upon the valuation, for its mortgage purposes, or 
on the review of that valuation  after all they instructed an independent professional to carry 
out the valuation here. 
Mr C has questioned why the Covid pandemic was mentioned in the valuation report, but 
from what I can see the valuer was simply alerting NatWest to the potential impact Covid 
may have on the real estate market generally, given the uncertainties it created.
Mr C has provided this service with various examples of why he believes his property has 
been undervalued and I know he feels strongly about that. That said, I can only consider if 
NatWest acted reasonably when they relied upon the valuation report provided to them, for 
their mortgage purposes, and for the reasons I have already given, I am satisfied they did.  
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of NatWest. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman