DRN-4046166
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R have complained that Post Office Management Services Limited (Post 
Office) mis-sold them a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs R took out a home insurance policy through Post Office, which included home 
emergency cover. Mr R and Mrs R made a claim under the home emergency policy. The 
underwriter for the home emergency policy said the claim wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr R and Mrs R complained, Post Office said Mr R and Mrs R would need to contact 
the underwriter about the claim itself. It didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold. 
So, Mr R and Mrs R complained to this service both about the Post Office and the 
underwriter. The underwriter accepted this services view that it should have dealt with the 
claim under the policy. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint about the Post Office as 
he said there wasnt evidence to show the policy had been mis-sold.
As Mr R and Mrs R didnt agree that Post Office had mis-sold the policy, the complaint was 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This decision doesnt cover the actions of the underwriter. However, Im aware that although 
the underwriter declined the claim for a heating system failure, our service found that the 
claim should have been accepted under the terms of the policy. The underwriter accepted 
this view and agreed to pay some compensation. 
Mr R and Mrs R bought the policy through an online comparison website. It included home 
emergency cover. Im aware Mr R and Mrs R have said they werent aware Post Office didnt 
underwrite the home emergency cover. Ive read the policy booklet and towards the 
beginning of the booklet it lists who the underwriter is for each of the policy. Ive also looked 
at the home emergency section and it says in a few places who provided the home 
emergency cover. So, I think this was clear in the information provided.
Mr R and Mrs R have said if the policy covered all failures of the central heating system that 
was fine. However, if it didnt, the policy should have listed every exclusion under the policy 
for a heating system failure. Looking at the policy booklet, the home emergency section had 
a page with the heading What this section does and doesnt cover and a sub-heading that 
said Why we sometimes dont pay claims. It then listed policy exclusions, such as 
maintenance issues or issues related to the cost of the repairs, as well as several others. 
The policy also explained it covered insured events that were sudden, unexpected and 
requires immediate corrective action and described those types of situations. 
So, the policy didnt say it would cover all claims related to heating system failures. I think 
the policy terms and exclusions were clearly explained and I dont think what these said 
were unusual. Im also mindful that the underwriter later accepted this services view that it 
should have covered the claim under the terms of the policy. 
Im also aware that Mr R and Mrs R are concerned that other policyholders might have 
claims unfairly declined based on the policy wording. My role is to look at individual 
complaints. Im not able to look at other customers circumstances or to require Post Office 
to review or change its business practices. So, Im unable to comment on this.
Based on everything Ive seen, I havent seen evidence that persuades me the policy was 
mis-sold to Mr R and Mrs R. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Post Office 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman