DRN-3673043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were mis-sold a fractional ownership timeshare product by 
a holiday company, which Ill call C. Because their purchase was financed in part by a loan 
provided by First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF), they say that it is responsible for Cs actions. 
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company, which Ill refer to as S.   
What happened
In or about September 2011 Mr and Mrs B entered into a fractional ownership arrangement, 
which was sold to them by C. Part of the purchase price was provided with a loan of over 
£20,000 from FHF. 
Under the fractional ownership arrangement, a trustee was to take legal ownership of 
holiday properties managed by a company connected to C. Mr and Mrs B would receive 
credits which they could exchange for the use of holiday accommodation over the life of the 
fractional ownership arrangement. On the Sale Date (defined in the documentation Mr and 
Mrs B signed as 31 December 2027) properties within the scheme would be put up for sale. 
Once property had been sold, the proceeds were to be distributed amongst participants in 
the scheme (including Mr and Mrs B) according to the level of fractional rights purchased. If 
property was not sold, the scheme had an end date several years later.
Mr and Mrs B repaid the loan within less than a year. In July 2014 they surrendered their 
membership of the fractional ownership arrangement.     
In October 2019 S contacted FHF on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. S claimed that C had mis-sold 
the fractional ownership. It said, in summary:
C had used pressured sales tactics, keeping Mr and Mrs B in a sales presentation for 
around nine hours.
C had not explained that management fees would increase in the way they had or that 
liability for them would be passed on Mr and Mrs Bs family.
C had not explained that the trustee had a discretion to sell the property.
The scheme was a collective investment scheme within the meaning of section 235 of 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. C was not authorised to sell or advise on 
such schemes. 
FHF passed the allegations to C. It strenuously denied them, saying that the documents that 
Mr and Mrs B had signed set out the arrangements clearly. It denied that the arrangements 
had been misrepresented or that they amounted to a collective investment scheme, citing 
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010. 
S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. In summary, 
he said that the complaint had been raised too long after the sale of the fractional ownership 
product. 
S did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. It referred to a decision in which an ombudsman had concluded that a similar scheme 
(also operated by C) was a collective investment scheme. It also said that the relevant time 
limits ran from the date on which Mr and Mrs B became aware of their cause for complaint 
which in this case was not until they instructed S, in 2019. S also said that FHF had not 
carried out appropriate checks on the affordability and suitability of the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did. I set out my reasons below.
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
I have not seen anything here to suggest that the lending was not affordable or that the loan 
was otherwise not appropriate for Mr and Mrs B. I note that the loan was repaid very soon 
after it was taken out. It does not necessarily follow of course that proper checks were 
carried out or that the loan was affordable, although S has not explained how it was repaid.  
However, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is 
referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the 
date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had 
cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that FHF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in September 2011. Mr and Mrs B would have known fairly soon after that date 
if they were having difficulty making repayments. They certainly would have known by the 
time the loan was repaid. It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred 
to this service by no later than September 2017 six years from the date Mr and Mrs B took 
it out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.  
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the fractional ownership. I am 
satisfied too that the loan was set up as a result of pre-existing arrangements between C 
and FHF and that section 75 could therefore apply, as well as section 56.    
I must therefore consider the claims against C. Mr and Mrs B say that C misled them about 
what they were buying and how the scheme operated.
 MisrepresentationA misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs B at the time of the sale. 
However, under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs B into the 
contract for the purchase the fractional ownership arrangement were made in September 
2011. They did not however raise any complaint with FHF until October 2019, some eight 
years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against C 
would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.  
S has said that the effect of section 14A of the Limitation Act is that Mr and Mrs B have three 
years from the date of knowledge of their claim in which to bring it. They did  not know until 
they consulted S that the fractional ownership arrangement was a collective investment 
scheme which C was not authorised to sell. 
Section 14A however applies to claims in negligence, where the negligence only becomes 
apparent after the event. It might apply, for example, where building work is not of a 
satisfactory standard, but it is several years before any defects appear. I do not believe it 
applies in this case, which is not a case where negligence is alleged.   
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim against C is now out of time under the 
Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of FHF to the claim under section 
56 and/or section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that 
the claims are time-barred, I think it was.
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. In this case that was no later than 
November 2011, when the loan was repaid in full and the loan account closed. 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim is that the actions of C were such that the loan agreement was unfair. I 
accept that the actions of C could be relevant to a claim under section 104A and section 
104B. 
Again, however, I think that it is reasonable to conclude that a court would be likely to say 
that such a claim would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act and to decline 
the claim. In the circumstances, I do not believe it would be fair for this service to uphold the 
claim. 
Conclusions     
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs B have a claim for 
misrepresentation against C. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider what a fair and 
reasonable resolution of this complaint would be .
In my view, it is reasonable to conclude that claims under section 56 and section 75 and 
under section 104A of the Consumer Credit Act are likely to be out of time under the relevant 
provisions of the Limitation Act.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require First Holiday Finance Ltd to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman