DRN-1928767
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Allianz insurance Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1996 when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mrs W complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 1996. She says she wasnt 
told about the terms and conditions; the PPI cost and benefits and the exclusions and 
limitations were not explained. She bought the credit card and the PPI in a store, but in this 
case, the insurance underwriter, Allianz, has taken responsibility for the PPI sale.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs W disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at again.
Mrs W added this was an advised sale; she first said she ticked the PPI box, then later said 
the store cashier ticked the PPI box and Mrs W just signed the form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Allianz made it clear the policy was an optional product. Allianz 
produced a copy of Mrs Ws store card application. I can see there was a separate section of 
the form where the consumer could choose to buy PPI. I can see Mrs W, or an Allianz 
representative ticked the PPI box in this section and entered her personal details on the 
form. I noted Mrs W declined other options on the form, so I think she most likely gave 
instructions for the form to be completed diligently by only choosing the products she wanted 
and then signed the form to give her consent to add PPI to her account. I think the active 
selection for PPI means Allianz probably made it clear that Mrs W didnt have to take out the 
PPI and yet she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to 
remember this.
Allianz said the policy was not recommended so it didnt have to make sure the policy was 
right for Mrs W. But Mrs W said the policy was advised because she said the representative 
advised her to buy the PPI. However, I dont think this changes my decision, as I think the 
policy probably was suitable for Mrs W. I say this because I think she was eligible to buy 
PPI, she wasnt affected by the main exclusions and limitations and I think it was affordable 
for her.
I also think Mrs W could have found the policy useful because, although she was eligible for 
sick pay from her employer, I think the PPI could have paid out for longer than and in addition to her sick pay. She told us she didnt have any savings at the time of the PPI sale, 
so I also think the PPI could have been useful at a time when she might have needed it 
most.
Mrs W initially told us she could have relied on her partners income  although she later 
thought she might have been single at the time of the sale. If she could have relied on her 
partner at the time, I dont think there was any guarantee of this at some unknown point in 
the future. So I think the PPI was still useful for her.
Allianz had to give Mrs W enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information about the cost and benefits given to Mrs W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been, however I dont know what other details were explained to 
her in the sales meeting. So as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems it would have been useful for her if something went wrong - 
because she had no savings and limited sick pay. I think the PPI could have been useful if 
she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. So even if she had been given more detailed 
information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it would have put her off from buying the 
PPI.
Allianz should also have pointed out the exclusions and limitations of the policy. I dont know 
how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs W was affected by the main exclusions. So - 
even if shed been given a full list of them - I dont think it would have put her off from buying 
the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional, it was a 
useful policy for her and Mrs W was probably given enough information to make an informed 
decision. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman