DRN-3160496
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society wrote to his daughter about an account 
held in his sole name.
What happened
Mr M says Nationwide wrote to his daughter about an account hed opened for her. He says 
hes the sole account holder and Nationwide had always dealt with him in the past. He says 
it sent a letter to his daughter, who is a minor. Mr M thinks Nationwide did this because of an 
issue hed raised previously.
Nationwide looked into what happened with the account he held for his daughter. It said it 
had changed its approach to this type of account. In order to be more open, it had decided to 
write directly to the child where an adult held the account on behalf of the child. It did this to 
give the child details of the information it held about them. 
Mr M didnt accept this. He complained to our service. Our investigator considered what had 
happened with the account held for Mr Ms daughter. He thought Nationwide had tried to tell 
Mr M about its change in policy before it had written to his daughter. He was satisfied on 
balance that Nationwide hadnt taken this action because of the issue Mr M had raised 
previously.
Because Mr M didnt agree with what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further Id like to say Im aware Mr M has raised some other concerns. But 
because those are connected to a separate complaint, which has previously been 
considered by our service, Im unable to deal with these. The investigator has been in touch 
with Mr M to explain why this is the case. So, to be clear, in this decision Im only looking at 
the part of Mr Ms complaint which relates to the letter sent to his daughter about the account 
he holds on her behalf.
Nationwide says it reviewed and amended it data protection policy earlier this year. It says 
this review affected all accounts which were held by an adult for the benefit of a child. It says 
that in order to be more open about the data it held, it had decided to write directly to the 
child to provide more details about the personal data it held about the child.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the letter it says it sent to any adults who held this type of 
account. It says its records show this letter was sent to Mr M. The letter said that for an 
account of the type opened by Mr M for his daughter any details provided wouldnt include 
the name of the person whod opened the account or what the balance was. If Mr M wasnt 
happy about this he could arrange to transfer the balance in the account to his daughter or 
he could close the account. Theres no indication that Mr M contacted Nationwide in 
response to the letter.
Nationwide is able to change its policy about how it stores and collects personal data. In this 
case, the changes to its policy affected all adults who held accounts for the benefit of a child. 
So, Im satisfied that the letter sent to Mr Ms daughter wasnt sent because hed made the 
original complaint. It was sent as part of a wider communication exercise Nationwide was 
carrying out. 
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably. 
I dont require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman