DRN-1983519
The complaint
This complaint is about a premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
September 2000 alongside a personal loan. 
Ms B says Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank, mis-sold her the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Both parties agree the policy was sold over the phone. Ms B says the PPI wasnt discussed 
when the loan was being discussed. She says it was added to the loan paperwork which 
was sent to her after the call, and when she questioned this with Danske Bank, it told her the 
policy was compulsory. 
I dont doubt the honesty of Ms Bs recollection, but she hasnt told us much more about 
what exactly was said at the time. And while that isnt necessarily surprising given how long 
ago the PPI was sold, memories can and do fade over time. So, I have to keep this in mind 
when looking at all the evidence available to decide what I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Unfortunately, due to the time thats passed, there is no longer a call recording for me to
listen to. Ms Bs actual loan agreement isnt available either, but Danske Bank have provided 
a sample loan quotation and a sample loan agreement which were used at the time for these 
types of sales.  
Looking at the sample loan quotation and loan agreement I can see that PPI was mentioned 
at the bottom of the quotation. The quotation states the PPI gives you the option of 
protecting your repayments against Accident, Sickness, Unemployment and Death. The 
quotation also sets out the monthly benefit of the policy and the monthly premium cost. From 
this I think its clear the policy was optional and separate to the loan. 
Ive thought about what Ms B says about being told the PPI was compulsory. But without any 
evidence to support this, it is difficult for me to rely on what she has said alone to decide that 
something untoward happened.   
So, on balance and without any persuasive evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Danske 
Bank made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Danske Bank says it recommended the PPI to Ms B. But Ms B feels strongly that she wasnt 
given any advice or recommendation about the policy and she wasnt asked any questions 
about her circumstances or ability to make her loan repayments at the time. As Ive said, 
there is no call recording available for me to listen to, so I dont know exactly what was 
discussed and I cant say for sure whether advice was given. But making a finding on this 
point isnt critical to the outcome because had Danske Bank made a recommendation I think, 
for the reasons set out below, this wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have made. 
So, Ive considered this as an advised sale  this sets a higher bar on Danske Bank than a 
non-advised sale.    
This means Danske Bank had to check it was suitable for Ms B. And it seems to have been 
right for her based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time. She was 
eligible for cover under the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the things policy didnt cover, for example, pre-existing medical conditions.
Ive thought about what Ms B has said about having sick pay and savings at the time which 
she couldve used to make her repayments if she wasnt able to work. But the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months, so longer than Ms Bs sick pay wouldve lasted and in addition 
to this. Ms B took out a loan in order to buy a car, so even though she had savings at the 
time she chose not to use these savings and to take out the loan instead. So, I think she 
wouldve benefited from having the PPI in place so she could keep her savings intact had 
she been unable to work.  
Its possible the information Danske Bank gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But the evidence suggests she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like 
she wanted this type of cover. And for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for 
Ms B, I think it wouldve been useful for her. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman