DRN-4273795
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined part of his claim under his 
home insurance policy following damage to his garage.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr Hs property was damaged by a falling tree from a neighbouring
garden, and he made a claim on his home insurance. Aviva accepted the claim under the 
terms of the policy but requested further information about machinery which was housed in 
Mr Hs garage.
Mr H says the machinery consisted of a wood lathe and bench, metal lathe, 2 milling
machines and 2 computer controllers. Aviva said that the machinery wasnt standard
household contents and requested Mr H provide proof of ownership or purchase. It also
requested proof of usage as it believed the machinery may be used for business or
professional use and, if so, would not be covered under the policy.
Mr H said that the machinery was for hobby use only and that he used the metal lathe and
mills to make things. He also said hed extensively renovated the machinery over the years.
He said the wooden bench and lathe were given to him by his father and that other items
were bought on an online auction site some years ago. He said hed paid cash and that hed
collected the items in his fathers van. He said his purchase history on the site was no longer
available and he wasnt able to provide any proof of purchase.
Aviva wasnt happy with Mr Hs response and said that it wouldnt consider the claim for the
machinery without proof of purchase/ownership and evidence that it wasnt being used for
business purposes.
Mr H complained to Aviva. He said that he had provided photos of the machinery in his
garage before the damage to show proof of ownership. He said he was unable to provide
proof of purchase as the purchase history was no longer available and the wood lathe and
bench were a gift. He said hed already provided links to new replacements with similar
specifications, and that this should be enough to value the items.
Aviva referred to its policy which said that it doesnt cover anything used for business or
professional purposes and that it is the policyholders responsibility to prove any loss. It said
that Mr H hadnt provided adequate proof of purchase or evidence that the machinery was
for personal use only. If he could do so, it would review his claim for the machinery.
Mr H wasnt happy with Avivas response and brought his complaint to this service. Our
investigator didnt think that Aviva had acted unreasonably as Mr H hadnt been able to
provide proof of ownership as specified in the policy. Mr H didnt agree and asked for the
matter to be considered by an ombudsman. He also provided some additional information,
namely a letter from the seller of the wood lathe and evidence from online sites in relation to
orders placed and items obtained. Aviva still didnt think these provided sufficient evidence
so the matter has therefore been referred to me for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 17 July 2023. I said:
Aviva has already accepted and settled part of Mr Hs claim. The issue Im considering here
is whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably when declining the remainder of Mr Hs claim
for the machinery.
With all insurance policies, its the responsibility of the policyholder to show they have
suffered a loss. For a claim to be successful, the policyholder must provide proof they owned
the item that they are claiming for and its value. Most insurance policies will include a
specific term which says this. Mr Hs policy says It is your responsibility to prove any loss
and we may ask you to provide receipts, valuations, photographs, instructions booklets and
guarantee cards and any other relevant information, documents and assistance we may
require to help with your claim.
I dont therefore think it unreasonable for Aviva to ask Mr H for evidence to support his claim,
particularly as the machinery is of high value. However, Mr H has been unable to provide
receipts for all his purchases although he has now provided some evidence which I have
considered below. Aviva says that it doesnt accept these as proof of ownership.
The first is a receipt from the seller of the wood lathe confirming he received £750 from Mr
Hs father for the lathe. Mr Hs father has confirmed to Aviva that he gifted the lathe, and a
wood bench, to Mr H. Aviva say that as the receipt is dated October 2022 and was produced
solely for use in Mr Hs claim, it doesnt prove that the lathe was purchased. However, this
was a purchase from a friend and then a gift to Mr H, so I dont think it unreasonable that no
receipt exists from the time of purchase. I think Mr H has done enough to show that he
owned a wood lathe and bench.
Mr H has also provided confirmation of successful online bids for the metal lathe and milling
machine type D engraver, an invoice for the milling machine type C, and order confirmations
for 2 CNC ball screws and a CNC controller. Whilst I understand that Aviva would like to see
receipts for all these items, Mr H doesnt have them. Many of the items were purchased
some time ago and I dont think it unreasonable that Mr H hasnt kept all his receipts. Im
aware that the online bidding site Mr H used doesnt keep order details indefinitely, so I
accept that Mr H may not be able to access the full purchase details. He also says that he
collected the items in person and paid cash so is not able to provide evidence of payment.
Ive thought very carefully about this and think on balance that Mr H has done enough to
show that he purchased the metal lathe, milling machine type C and milling machine type D
engraver.
The ball screws and CNC controller orders were placed online and Mr H has provided
screenshots of the order details. These show the date the orders were placed and again on
balance I think this is enough to show he purchased these items.
Mr H has also provided some photos which he says shows the machinery in his garage prior
to the damage demonstrating that he owned the items. Ive looked at these photos which
show the wood lathe, the milling machine type C and D, and the metal lathe on various dates
between January 2019 and February 2022. I think these photos add weight to Mr Hs
argument that he owned the items as they can be seen present in his garage before the
damage occurred.
Aviva say that its surveyor attended Mr Hs property on two occasions but couldnt see any
items of damaged machinery. The surveyor didnt produce a report from either visit, but I
have seen some photos. Im not sure when these photos were taken but the surveyor wasntinstructed until the end of March 2022 so the photos must be after this date. I can also see
from Avivas file that a certain amount of clearing up had already taken place by the time the
surveyor attended. I dont therefore think it reasonable to rely on these photos to show that
the machinery wasnt present in the aftermath of the damage.
Mr H has provided some photos taken shortly after the damage in February 2022. These
show the fallen tree, rubble from the garage, and items of machinery including the metal and
wooden lathe. I cant identify all the machinery, but Im satisfied that items of machinery can
be seen in the rubble. Mr H also says that the machinery is still in his possession so could be
inspected by Aviva if it wished.
On balance I think that Mr H has done enough to show that he owned the items of
machinery.
Mr Hs policy defines Contents and specifically excludes anything used or stored for
business or professional purposes. Aviva says that Mr H hasnt satisfied it that the
machinery wasnt being used for business purposes. However, it is for an insurer to show
that a policy exclusion applies  and I dont think Aviva has done this.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr H was running a business or using the machinery as
part of a business. Neither have I seen any evidence that Mr H was selling any items made
using the machinery. Aviva say that Mr H has been inconsistent about his employment
status and that he told it he was a student. Mr H says that he was employed at the time he
bought the machinery and at the time of the damage, but that he also carried out studies as
part of his employment. In any event, even if Mr H had been a student at some point, this
doesnt demonstrate that the machinery was being used for business purposes or that Mr H
hadnt purchased it.
Mr H has provided photos from 2020/21 of items he says he made using his machinery. Two
show a fishing lure mould and two show the engraving of a block of wood. Mr H says that
this shows he used the machinery for hobby use. Aviva says that the items were made using
someone elses machinery, not his own. I havent seen any evidence of this, but even if Mr H
had used someone elses machinery to make these items, it doesnt follow that Mr H was
using his own machinery for business purposes.
I dont therefore think it fair or reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim on the basis that the
machinery was being used or stored for business or professional purposes.
As I dont think Aviva acted fairly, Ive also considered compensation for distress and
inconvenience and think an award of £200 is fair. I think the refusal to pay part of Mr Hs
claim has caused Mr H additional stress  on top of what must have been a difficult situation
for him. As some of Mr Hs additional evidence regarding the purchase of the machinery was
only provided more recently, Ive taken this into account when considering the level of
compensation.
I therefore intend to uphold this complaint. I would like to make it clear that Im not saying
that Aviva should pay Mr Hs claim  only that the claim should now be considered under the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr H accepted my decision but asked that I instruct Aviva to pay for his loss rather than to 
consider the claim.
Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision. It said it would expect to see some transactional agreement for the wood lathe and bench even it if was purchased from a friend. It also 
commented that it was not unreasonable for it to seek proof of purchase for the machinery 
and that it was Mr Hs responsibility to supply this.
Aviva also referred to page 30 of its terms and conditions which say What you mustnt do: 
get rid of damaged property or organise repairs without our agreement. It said the damaged 
items should be available to inspect.
Finally, Aviva say that Mr H hasnt provided any documentation to show that the items were 
for personal use and that it wouldnt expect to see commercial grade machinery in a private 
property unless it was being used commercially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered carefully what both parties have said  but havent seen anything new that 
makes me change my mind. 
Mr H wants me to instruct Aviva to pay his claim. However, I dont think this would be fair as 
Aviva hasnt considered his claim under the remaining terms of his policy. This is what it 
should do now.
I detailed in my provisional decision the evidence Id seen which satisfied me that Mr H 
owned the machinery, including the items purchased from his fathers friend. Aviva hasnt 
provided any new information, so I see no reason to change my decision on this. 
In relation to disposal of the items, Ive looked at page 30 of the terms and conditions. 
However, as I referred to above, Mr H says the machinery is still in his possession and can 
be inspected by Aviva if it wishes.
Aviva hasnt provided any evidence showing a business enterprise or that Mr H was using 
the machinery commercially. It simply says that having commercial machinery means that 
Mr H must be using it commercially  but I dont think this follows. Mr H has provided some 
evidence of hobby use as I detailed in my provision decision, and so I dont think it fair to 
conclude that the machinery is being used commercially without evidence.
Taking into account all the above, my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
consider Mr Hs claim under the remaining terms of his policy and pay Mr H £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman