DRN-3364879
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms S borrowed £1,000 from Madison in October 2020. The loan was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of about £72. The total amount repayable was around £1,740.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint and thought that Madison had been 
wrong to provide Ms S with the loan. Madison disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. 
As the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Ms Ss complaint.
Madison needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms S irresponsibly. I 
think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did Madison make a fair lending 
decision about the loan?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms S in some other way?
Madison was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Madison had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms S. 
Madison had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Madison had 
to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length 
of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks ought generally to have been 
more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Madison was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay her loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this
matter and what it means for Ms S.
Madison says that Ms S applied for her loan on its website. The lender asked Ms S for 
information about her income and expenditure and acquired a credit check before providing 
the loan. 
Madison thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate. But Ms S was applying to 
Madison for a costly loan, repayable over an extended two-year period. I would have 
expected the lender to want to obtain a thorough understanding of Ms Ss financial 
circumstances to satisfy itself that she could sustainably repay the loan over the whole loan 
term  especially as the credit report showed that she had some outstanding default liability 
which Madison doesnt appear to have taken into account when it calculated Ms Ss regular 
outgoings. And Ms S doesnt appear to have been asked to supply independent evidence of 
her income such as a wage slip or her expenditure. Overall, I cant fairly say that I think 
Madisons checks were reasonable or proportionate. But in any event, I dont think Madison 
made a fair lending decision on this occasion and Ill explain why.
The credit report shows that Ms S had outstanding credit of around £6,690 including another 
unsecured loan with an outstanding balance of over £2,000 taken around four months 
earlier. Ms Ss balance to limit ratio was very high at 96% and her outstanding debts 
included 2 defaulted accounts with a liability of £1,870. From what Ive seen, Madison didnt 
allow for any repayments to be made on these defaulted accounts when it calculated Ms Ss 
regular payments to her outstanding creditors. Madison says that these accounts would 
have become statute barred within four months of Ms S taking the loan and as she had not 
been making any regular repayments to these creditors, it was reasonable to exclude this 
liability from its assessment of the affordability of the loan.
Ive thought about Madisons comments carefully and the summary of information that 
Madison gathered at the time. I think at the point that Madison made its decision to lend to 
Ms S, it ought fairly and reasonably to have taken into account her full outstanding credit 
commitments, including the £1,870 still outstanding on the defaulted accounts. The fact that 
Ms S had not been making repayments to these accounts might also reasonably have 
suggested to the lender that this consumer could be struggling to meet this liability. The 
application data says that Ms S was taking the loan for household improvements or repairs so it doesnt seem that Ms S intended to consolidate or otherwise improve her financial 
position with Madisons loan.
On balance, I think Madison ought reasonably to have realised that, after meeting all her 
outgoings, existing credit, and new loan repayments to Madison, Ms S would have limited 
disposable income available each month and was at risk from experiencing further financial 
difficulties by taking on further lending.
I think Madison ought reasonably to have realised that taking everything into account, Ms S 
would most likely struggle to repay her loan on a sustainable basis. Madison might have 
calculated that on the face of it, Ms S had sufficient disposable income to repay her loan. But 
it had to ensure that she could do so sustainably, over the whole loan term, without 
borrowing further. Taking Ms Ss circumstances as a whole, I think Madison ought 
reasonably to have realised that she would most likely be unable to repay the loan 
sustainably and so it ought reasonably to have declined to lend to her.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms S to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she paid interest and charges on a loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to her.
Madison should
Remove all interest, fees, and charges on the loan and treat any payments Ms S 
made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Ms Ss loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Madison should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then Madison should treat Ms S sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file in relation to the 
loans once any outstanding capital has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to deduct tax from this interest. Madison should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2022.
 
Sharon ParrOmbudsman