DRN-3965012
The complaint
Mr J complain that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his business accounts without giving a reason. 
He suffered financial hardship and a loss of reputation in the local community. Mr J says 
Lloyds incorrectly registered a charge against his property.
The complaint dealing with his wifes business account will be dealt with separately.
What happened
Mr J had business accounts with Lloyds. He was asked to provide some documents 
regarding the business such as annual accounts. Mr J provided documents to Lloyds. Mr J 
believes that the manager at their local branch didnt process the paperwork correctly.
Following the review Lloyds wrote to Mr J on 7 February 2020 giving him 60 days notice to 
close the accounts.
Mr J had arranged overdrafts on his business accounts as well as having guaranteed an 
overdraft on his wifes business accounts. The overdraft was around £15,000. These 
facilities were extended to April 2020 to coincide with the notice to close.
Mr J decided to open an account with another bank I will call A. A provided accounts but 
would not provide overdraft facilities.
Mr J received formal demand for the outstanding debt on 8 June 2020. Due to covid the 
recovery of the debt was put on hold until February 2021.
Mr J complained to Lloyds. They said they were entitled to close the account and didnt have 
to give him a reason.
Mr J was unhappy with the response, so he complained to our service. He thought Lloyds 
werent entitled to secure an overdraft unless it was over £25,000. He also objected to 
Lloyds advertising.
One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Lloyds had done nothing 
wrong when they closed the accounts. And they werent obliged to give reasons. She didnt 
think Lloyds were responsible for Mr J not being able to get an overdraft. She thought any 
complaints due to the way Lloyds advertised should be addressed to the Advertising 
Standards Authority. She also didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong when they 
secured the overdraft of £15,000 against one of Mr Js properties and she could see that 
Mr J had signed the agreement.
Mr J disagreed. He said he had been a loyal customer for 58 years and he felt his reputation 
had been damaged in the small local community because of the account closure. He didnt 
feel he had been treated with consideration and fairly by Lloyds. He hadnt been given a 
reason for the closure. He said Lloyds should have thought more carefully about the impact 
that closing the accounts would have on Mr J. He was still surprised that Lloyds had a 
charge over his property for £15,000.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Closure of the account and reason
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Js accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Lloyds were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Js accounts.
In this case Lloyds requested some information from Mr J. He has said that the branch 
manager of the local branch didnt process the information he provided correctly, and he 
thinks this is the reason why the accounts were closed.
I appreciate this is frustrating to Mr J especially because he hasnt been told the reason for 
the closure. However, having looked at the information provided to me I can reassure Mr J 
that the closure of his accounts was not decided on by the branch manager and his actions 
were not the reason for his accounts closing.
Effect of the closure 
The investigator has said that its for banks to decide if they want to continue to have 
someone as a customer. And I agree. Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before 
closing an account. Usually that means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the 
circumstances. I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mr J on 7 February 2020 and let him know it 
was closing his account giving 60 days notice.  I can also see that the bank extended this by 
a further 60 days due to the difficulty Mr J was having in getting an overdraft facility. So, Im 
satisfied Lloyds closed the accounts in line with the account terms. And gave consideration 
to Mr Js personal circumstances and the Covid situation. So, looking at the terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied the bank didnt treat Mr J unfairly when they closed his accounts.
I know Mr J thinks the closure of the account meant a loss of reputation to him in the local 
community. I cant say whether Mr Js reputation was damaged as a result of the account 
closure I know he certainly thinks so, but as Ive said Lloyds didnt act unfairly when they 
closed Mr Js accounts, so I cant say that compensation should be payable to him. 
I know Mr J would like to know the reason for the closures especially as he is a long-time 
customer of Lloyds. Whilst Mr J may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, 
Lloyds isnt required to give him a specific reason for closing the accounts. So, I cant say 
Lloyds has done anything wrong by not giving him this information  as much as he would 
like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Mr J has said he found it difficult to get a new overdraft facility. I can accept that this was 
difficult for him. Mr J would say that if Lloyds hadnt closed his accounts he wouldnt be in 
that position. However, Ive already said that Lloyds didnt act unfairly when they decided to 
close his accounts, so I dont think they can be held liable for the difficulty Mr J had trying to 
get another overdraft facility.
Secured overdraft Mr J guaranteed his wifes business overdraft, so together with the overdraft on his own 
account, the total overdraft Mr J was responsible for was £15,000. This is not in dispute. 
Mr J is unhappy that £15,000 is secured against his property. Mr J has complained that it 
isnt banking practice to secure loans under £25,000 on property. I havent seen anything in 
the terms and conditions or any other documents to suggest that is the case. I can 
nevertheless see that Mr J signed the agreement for the overdraft facility and this referred to 
the overdraft being secured on his property. So, Im satisfied Mr J was aware of this at the 
time. Mr J has said he would like the charge removed from his property but on the 
documents Ive seen, Im satisfied that the charge was correctly applied, as the overdraft 
was business borrowing. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to remove it 
Mr J has said that he is unhappy with Lloyds advertising, and he feels it is misleading for 
Lloyds to say they are with you for life by your side because of the way that Mr J has been 
treated by Lloyds. I accept the frustration, but we arent able to tell a business how they 
should advertise. The investigator has already directed Mr J to organisations which deal with 
advertising, and I have nothing further to add.
Mr J has said that hes sure Lloyds have followed their processes, but hes complaining that 
there must be guidelines how to treat customers with consideration and fairness. Mr J feels 
he hasnt been so treated by Lloyds. Mr J is right, there are rules and guidelines that require 
financial institutions to treat their customers fairly. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
sets out principles a bank must comply with, in particular Principle 6 states A firm must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
I have considered whether Lloyds adhered to this principle when it closed Mr Js accounts 
and I think they have. I say this because they took into consideration that Mr J would find it 
difficult to find an account with an overdraft equal to the one he enjoyed with Lloyds and they 
extended the time frame for the closure of the account to 120 days. Lloyds took into account 
Mr Js circumstances as well as the prevailing Covid conditions at the time of the closure. I 
appreciate that having accounts closed after so many years as a customer was a shock and 
it was difficult to find equivalent banking but having considered everything, I dont think 
Lloyds have done anything wrong here, so I wont be asking them to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman