DRN-3014561
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) overcharged 
him for damages to a car he returned at the end of his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr C entered into an agreement with MBFS which contained the following:
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
The agreement sets out what is and what is not acceptable in terms of damage. MBFS says 
that Mr C was given a pricing matrix which indicates the charges MBFS levies for repairs. 
Our investigator has reviewed the report by the third party which collected and inspected the 
car and considers the report to be fair.
I appreciate Mr C says he has spoken to somebody who has estimated the cost of repairs 
would be in the region of £200. However, he has provided no written evidence of this and in 
any event he agreed to pay MBFS the rates it charged. I understand Mr C had some repairs 
carried out before he returned the car and it was open to him to have the other areas of 
damage fixed. While I appreciate Mr Cs disappointment at the charges levied by MBFS I 
cannot say it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
