DRN-2825874
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money he says he didnt receive when he 
tried to make a cash withdrawal.
What happened
Mr B says he tried to withdraw £250 on 26 June 2020. But the cash machine only made a 
noise and didnt give him any money. He raised this with Monzo and was unhappy not to get 
a refund.
Monzo said that there hadnt been any mistake. It had received information from the third 
party that owned the cash machine showing that the notes had been dispensed correctly.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said hed asked Monzo 
to provide further information about the operation of this cash machine. This showed that it 
was used both before and after Mr B without any issues. And that 25 £10 notes had been 
dispensed to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that he couldnt now show that hed borrowed money to pay his 
rent at the time when the money wasnt dispensed as hed explained. This was because of 
the time that had passed. He said it was very worrying and that he cant feel safe taking out 
money. He thought it was sad that because the computer didnt record an error this has 
been trusted rather than what hed said. Mr B referred to receiving a refund in similar 
circumstances before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Ill be thinking about what is most 
likely. I agree with our investigator that the information Monzo has provided shows that the 
machine had correctly dispensed Mr Bs money. And that the machine balanced when it was 
next checked. I can also see that no one else used the machine after Mr B for five minutes. 
Mr B refers to a past claim and I can see from the information Monzo has provided that he 
also disputed a withdrawal on 29 May 2020 and received a refund. I am not making any 
finding about those circumstances here. But I mention this because there had been no 
challenge to his claim then that an error had been made. Here Im looking at a further claim 
made within a month. And based on the information available about this dispute and what  
Mr B has said I am not persuaded it is most likely the money wasnt correctly dispensed to 
him.
So, Im afraid I wont be asking Monzo to do anything further and I appreciate that this will be 
a disappointment for Mr B given what hes said about his financial problems.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman