DRN-3240893
The complaint
Mr M has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unreasonably refused to deal with his 
claim under his motor policy when his car was stolen and burnt out. 
What happened
Mr M insured this car with UKI via a mid-term policy change in 2 July 2020. He made a claim 
to UKI on 2 February 2021 that his car had been stolen and burnt out.
UKI investigated his claim and came to the conclusion that Mr M hadnt proved his claim 
sufficiently, so it refused to consider it. Mr M complained but UKI wouldnt change its stance.
So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think UKI had done anything 
wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
In making a claim, it is for the policyholder (Mr M here) to prove his claim is valid. UKI said 
Mr M kept changing his story through its investigation so it didnt believe his account that his 
car was stolen was true. 
It said the following:
Mr M produced several different statements, as regards the time the car was stolen, 
whether the police informed his mother, or his father, or himself and whether they did 
that by phone or in person. The police said it attended one address, but Mr M said 
they had attended a different address.
Mr M thought his car had been stolen by relay theft, but his make of car and its 
security system doesnt support this. 
And further the CCTV shows someone opening the car with a key.
Mr M didnt comply with the polices request for him to forward that CCTV footage to 
them.
Mr M said his car was supplied with one key and UKIs interrogation of the key shows 
its been tampered with and the battery was removed. UKI think this was an attempt 
to delete its data. However, the data was still there, and that data shows several 
faults with the car. This is contrary to the fact that Mr M told UKI his car had no 
issues. 
Mr M said he didnt know his car was still subject a finance agreement and indeed 
this finance agreement is not in the name of the person who Mr M said sold him the 
car. He also initially said he hadnt contacted them, then said he did and later said 
the finance company visited him in person. Whereas the finance company said it had 
written to Mr M on several occasions and sent out an investigator who also wanted 
Mr Ms evidence to show proof of purchase. The finance company said it never 
received this evidence.
Mr M can show no evidence of paying for the car. He said it was by bank transfer, but 
he didnt produce his bank statements and then said he paid for it in cash in the sum 
of £9,000 but again didnt provide any evidence of how this car was paid for. 
Mr M couldnt clarify if he had done any HPI check on the car, despite that he said he 
was buying through social media.  
Given the substantial number of issues raised by UKI in trying to validate his claim and the 
fact that Mr M couldnt clarify any of them for UKI, I consider UKI did nothing wrong in 
deciding not to consider Mr Ms claim. This is because there is no evidence before me that 
Mr M proved his claim to UKI. Therefore, I consider UKIs decision to be reasonable here. 
There is no duty on UKI to accept a claim that hasnt been proved. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman