DRN-3468823
The complaint
Mr E and Miss T have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Pet Plan unreasonably 
refused their claim under their pet policy.
As Miss T has been the main correspondent with this service, I shall just refer to her for ease 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Miss T, on acquiring a kitten on 10 June 2021 took out a lifetime pet policy with Allianz 
starting 30 June 2021. As per normal in pet policies, there was a cooling off period for 14 
days, in which no cover was provided for any illness which manifests within these first 14 
days. 
 
Sadly, this kitten suffered from rickets and following a claim from Miss Ts referral vet, Allianz 
said the rickets manifested itself during the first 14 days of cover given the kitten was seen 
by the vet for an initial sprained leg. Miss T didnt agree as she felt her kitten had improved 
following the leg issue but then sadly became ill again when the rickets was diagnosed by a 
referral vet on day 15 after the policy started. Allianz refused to change its stance, so Miss T 
brought her complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that Allianz hadnt done anything wrong. Miss T didnt agree 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I want to tell Miss T and Mr E that I am so sorry their kitten ended up having to be put 
to sleep. I can see from all Miss T has written that this was such a difficult thing to do and 
that it was traumatic, deeply distressing and so very sad. 
 
Secondly as complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I cant consider anything to do 
with the issue that Allianz did not respond to Miss Ts initial complaint within the stated time 
limit. Thats because I can only deal with matters which are regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
My role however and the role of this service is to consider whether Allianz did anything in 
saying the cause of Miss Ts claim began within the 14-day cooling off period, given the 
policy terms and conditions.
Allianz policy like almost every other insurance policy provides a 14-day cooling off period 
which is required by the regulator the FCA. Primarily this is to permit consumers like Miss T 
the opportunity to change their minds and cancel their policies with a full refund. Given that, 
it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for insurers to entertain claims for illnesses during those 14 
days. The rules are however different for accidents and this claim doesnt concern any 
accident. But that is why this limitation on benefit exists. 
As the investigator discussed in her view this was clearly highlighted. The policy wording 
explains the following: 
Illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover
 Any illness that showed clinical signs [my emphasis] in the first 14 days of a) your 
pets first policy first 14 days of cover: year, or b) the section being added to your 
insurance.
 Any illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs, as an illness that showed 
clinical signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section 
being added to your insurance.
 Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical sign that was 
noticed in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section being 
added to your insurance.
 Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from an illness that showed 
clinical signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section 
being added to your insurance.
This applies in all cases regardless of whether the clinical signs present in the same 
or different parts of your pets body.
If your pet shows signs of an illness within 14 days of your cover starting
Your policy does not cover any illness that shows clinical signs in the first 14 days of 
your cover starting. This only applies in your first policy year and does not apply 
when you renew your policy with us. For further details please read the definition 
illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover.
What we will not pay under Veterinary Fees and Complementary Treatment
The cost of any treatment for an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover.
I consider this is clear and firmly explains no illness which manifests itself or shows clinical 
signs within the first 14 days is covered. I also consider theres nothing wrong with this 
limitation given the various regulations under which Allianz and indeed all other insurers 
must operate. 
From the vet history this kitten apparently fell off the couch on 30 June 2021 the day the 
policy started. She appeared to have improved by 2 July 2021 but was still mildly limping. 
Then there was another incident on 8 July where the kitten meowed loudly and was found on 
the floor and was reluctant to walk. On 12 July 2021 the vet asked for a video of the kitten 
walking. But on 13 July 2021 the kitten still wasnt right she couldnt move around properly. 
And on 14 July 2021 an x-ray showed very reduced bone density and the kitten was 
referred on to a referral vet where so very sadly she was diagnosed with rickets being a 
suspected type 2 vitamin D dependent with generalised and severe poor density of the 
bones, suspected secondary to a hereditary genetic abnormality impairing the action and/or 
metabolism of vitamin D.
Allianz said this history was clear evidence that this kittens illness started within the first 14 
days of cover mostly likely on 8 July and was therefore excluded. I dont consider thats 
unreasonable, as the diagnosis shows effectively this kitten was born with an inability to 
absorb vitamin D, which mean she already had very fragile bones, consequently the 
likelihood of difficulty in walking and moving around normally was extremely high. Therefore, 
in effect that provides a probable explanation of the issues she had from 30 June. So, given 
the instances on 30 June, 2 July, 8 July and 13 July, on the balance of probability all of them 
can relate back to her very unusual issue of rickets and this is more clearly likely from 8 July given the vet history. Therefore, I dont consider it was at all likely there were two separate 
issues going as Miss T claims and certainly there is no vet evidence to back that up. And 
regardless, it was very clear this kitten had significant symptoms of her condition since 8 July 
which is within the 14-day deferment period. The policy terms clearly exclude clinical signs 
which is evidenced by the kittens limping and difficulty in walking given her very fragile bone 
density, so its irrelevant when the actual claim was presented, and its irrelevant when the 
condition was diagnosed. What is relevant is when the clinical signs were first noted, which 
here unfortunately was within the first 14 days of the policys start date.
As with all medical issues, things arent always clear cut or easily identifiable from the start. 
So it was reasonable to consider the initial presentation was a sprain but on the further 
follow ups and indeed scans and x-rays and the history from 8 July, sadly this illness on the 
balance of probability in my view, manifested itself within the first 14 days of the policy 
starting. Allianz expert vet certainly of this view along with its internal vet as theyve said the 
following. First the expert vet said:
As the vets well know osteopenia is not a sudden onset disease. The disorder was 
present from prior to ownership and this is a clear case of responsibility of the 
breeder.
The disorder will cause multiple types of presentation from poor balance, bone pain, 
fractures, etc.
The clinical history clearly stated that the owner did not witness a traumatic event, 
merely presumed one. It is more likely that there was a spontaneous pain event due 
to the osteopenia and I would put the onset of the disease at 30/06/21.
Being generous and attributing the lameness to a sprain there is still clear evidence 
of skeletal symptoms on 08/07/21.
They xrayed and diagnosed low bone density on 14/07/21 still within the 14 day 
deferment.
Allianz internal vet said the following:
This is likely PR. The poor kitten was lame on 30/06/21 and that was not due simply 
to a fall. The kitten continued limping (unsurprisingly as the bones are so fragile) and 
was still limping on 02/07/21 and even worse on 08/07/21. On 12/07/21 a video 
showed [name of kitten] walking very uncomfortably so this had continued and the 
next day she was still very painful moving around and struggled to go to the toilet due 
to pain and was constipated as a result. All these consults and treatment are within 
the deferment periodThe kitten clearly showed the pain and lameness and 
complications of the rickets from when the policy started all the way through the 
deferment period, and potentially PR. 
There is no other evidence from the vet history of either Miss Ts own vet or the referral vet 
to counter this. It would be very difficult to counter it evidentially too in my view, given the 
diagnosis of rickets, osteopenia and the consequent fragile bones which was most likely 
hereditary and genetic, more so given the kittens very young age too.
I understand and appreciate Miss T will be very disappointed with my decision however 
there is nothing to show me that Allianz has done anything wrong her, given the terms and 
conditions of the policy.My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman