DRN-3459555
The complaint
Ms B complains about QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) avoiding her home insurance policy. She 
wants QIC to reinstate her policy and to consider her claim.
What happened
Ms B was in the process of purchasing her home. She obtained a Homebuyers survey of 
the property.
In that survey, under the heading Structural Movement the surveyor reported
The property has suffered previous movement, as evidenced by minor differential 
settlement cracking between the main dwelling and lower ground floor annexe addition, but I 
saw no evidence to suggest this is ongoing.
The various garden retaining walls have suffered previous movement with minor cracking 
visible but I saw no evidence to suggest this is ongoing.
Retaining structures are prone to eventual deflection and increased maintenance costs.
The surveyor categorised these details as category 1, being the least serious category of 
repair.
Ms B proceeded with the purchase.
In February 2018, Ms B purchased home insurance with QIC, via a comparison website.
The site asked her to confirm a number of declarations about the property, including the 
material the property was built from, whether the property had been subject to subsidence, 
structural support or underpinning in the past 10 years, and whether it was undergoing any 
major building works. One of the declarations read It does NOT show signs of cracking in   
external walls.
Ms B agreed with the declaration, and her policy was issued.
Ms B renewed her policy in February 2019, 2020 and 2021. At each renewal she agreed 
with this declaration.
In September 2021, as some work was being carried out at Ms Bs home, her contractor 
removed render from an external retaining wall and discovered a substantial crack. He 
stopped work and Ms B contacted QIC to alert them that she may need to make a claim.
A surveyor from QIC attended her home and spoke with Ms B. During this conversation Ms 
B mentioned having seen cracks in the kitchen prior to it being renovated, and that these 
had been replastered.
QIC communicated further with Ms B and requested a copy of her Homebuyers survey, 
which she provided.
QIC then contacted Ms B and advised her that it intended to avoid her policy. QIC 
considered that failure to declare the cracks mentioned in the Homebuyers survey was a 
qualifying misrepresentation and that QIC was entitled to avoid the policy back to renewal in 
2021. QIC considered the misrepresentation to be careless and so refunded Ms Bs 
premium back to 2021. QIC declined to consider any claims made within the policy period.
Ms B was unhappy with this and complained. She felt that QIC had misconstrued her 
attempts to provide full information as her having been aware of existing issues with the 
property. She explained that she did not consider the cracks mentioned in the Homebuyers 
survey to be relevant as they were described as minimal and not ongoing.
QIC sent Ms B its final response in October 2021. It maintained its decision to avoid the 
policy. 
It stated that the insurer is a low-risk home insurer and does not provide cover to properties 
with any form of cracking in the external walls.
Ms B complained to us.
Our investigator considered this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that QIC 
had demonstrated that if Ms B had disagreed with the declaration about cracking then cover 
would not have been offered. She therefore thought that QIC was entitled to cancel
 the policy back to the 2021 renewal.
Ms B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. She has made 
reference to finding written communication difficult and thinking that the question was asking 
about significant cracks rather than ones which could have been painted over.
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this matter in March 2022. That provisional 
decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to comment. 
Ms B has not made any further comments. 
QIC has submitted further comments arguing that it was unreasonable of Ms B not to 
mention the cracks which were noted in her Homebuyers survey. It says that the question 
was factual and unambiguous and did not require Ms B to make any assessment of the 
severity of the cracks and whether they were relevant or not. QIC argues that it would not 
have offered cover if any cracks had been disclosed and so it considers that the complaint 
ought to be rejected and the avoidance decision allowed to remain. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand QICs arguments, and that it has provided underwriting criteria showing that it 
would not have offered cover if Ms B had declared signs of cracking in external walls. It has 
explained that it is a low risk insurer and would decline any cover where cracks were 
declared, without undertaking any further assessment of the severity of cracks. 
In its submission, QIC has repeated that when QICs surveyor attended Ms Bs home she 
mentioned some cracks which had appeared in her kitchen, around 12 months after she moved in. QIC has indicated that those cracks too ought to have been declared at the time, 
or at subsequent renewal. 
Ms B has previously explained, to both QIC and to us, that some cracks appeared in the 
plaster around a large extractor fan which had vibrated and become loose. The cracks were 
in the plaster only and were repaired by filler and redecoration. It is clear that the cracks 
described in the kitchen were superficial and in the plaster only, and were of no relevance to 
the structure of the wall once the extractor fan was replaced. 
QIC has indicated that Ms B ought to have declared these aesthetic cracks because they 
were on the plaster of an external wall. 
I do not agree with this, and aesthetic cracks are not something which are routinely declared 
to insurers or would be of interest to insurers. Requiring consumers to declare aesthetic 
cracks to plaster, which can be repaired by decoration, would be excessive and unrealistic. 
Consumers understand that their insurer wishes to know issues which affect the risk of a 
property, and aesthetic issues do not affect this insurance risk. 
The cracks mentioned in the HomeBuyers survey, are described by surveyors as hairline 
and minor differential settlement cracking. Ms Bs subsequent surveyor has described them 
as negligible and aesthetic only, and it is clear that the surveyor conducting the 
Homebuyers survey did not consider that they were recent or ongoing. 
Overall, the professional surveyors assessments of the settlement cracking were that these 
cracks were negligible and aesthetic only and not relevant to an assessment of the risk of 
the structure of the property. A great many properties will show signs of differential 
settlement and will be completely structurally sound. 
Based on the HomeBuyers survey, which Ms B had seen at the time of her declarations, I 
do not think it was unreasonable of Ms B to disregard the superficial cracking, which was 
graded as the lowest category of cracking and not of concern. As far as Ms B was 
concerned, the hairline cracks were only to the render which was to be replaced by new 
render anyway. She could not give an assessment of the wall underneath, but the surveyor 
who carried out the Homebuyers survey was unconcerned and saw no evidence of ongoing 
movement. 
In my view, most reasonable consumers would not consider that they should declare minor 
settlement cracks. In all the circumstances, I do not consider that Ms Bs omission was a 
qualifying misrepresentation, and I do not think that it was fair of QIC to avoid her policy on 
the basis of it. 
I therefore remain of the view expressed in my provisional decision and I adopt that decision, 
as supplemented by the above comments, as my final decision. 
Putting things right
As previously indicated, I think that to put matters right, QIC must reinstate Ms Bs policy to 
ensure her cover is continuous. QIC should then consider Ms Bs claim in line with the policy 
without reference to the HomeBuyers survey or any alleged misrepresentation about 
cracking. 
As Ms Bs own survey has been important in reaching this decision, QIC should reimburse 
Ms B for the cost of this report, on production of evidence of the costs being paid. 
QIC must give Ms B a letter confirming that she does not need to declare that she has had a policy cancelled or avoided.
If Ms B has incurred costs in obtaining alternative cover, QIC should reimburse her for that 
cover. QIC is able to charge Ms B for her reasonable premiums for her continuous cover. 
QIC should also pay to Ms B compensation for her distress and inconvenience. I previously 
indicated that I considered that £250 would be appropriate compensation. Ms B has not 
commented on this and so I am satisfied that it is reasonable and in line with other awards 
we would make.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
Reinstate Ms Bs policy, backdated to the date of avoidance, in order to provide 
continuous cover;
Consider Ms Bs claim, without reference to any alleged misrepresentation of 
cracking;
Reimburse Ms B for the cost of her structural survey;
Reimburse Ms B for any costs she has incurred in obtaining alternative cover; and
Pay to Ms B £250 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman