DRN-1378909
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the following reasons. 
There is limited information about how the PPI was sold, and while Santander located the 
PPI policy it has no record of the mortgage it covered. But thats understandable given how 
long ago it was. So, Im unable to say that Santander didn't make Mr and Mrs G aware that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, or that they didn't choose to take it. 
Santander most likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and it seems to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While they had 
some sick pay the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for up to 36 months for accident 
and sickness claims. It also provided cover for up to 12 months in the case of 
unemployment. And Mr and Mrs G had no other way of keeping up with their repayments, 
such as savings. While one of their salaries might have covered the mortgage, that would 
likely have had a negative impact on their standard of living. And the PPI protected against 
that  and it protected against them both being unable to work at the same time. 
Theres no record of if or how Santander told Mr and Mrs G about the cost of the PPI. So, its 
possible that Santander couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But, even 
if it had provided clear information, I think Mr and Mrs G would still have bought it. It wasn't 
too expensive given the benefit it provided, and Ive no reason to think Mr and Mrs G 
wouldn't have been able to afford it. 
Its possible Santander didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover. But I dont 
think better information about the policy wouldve stopped Mr and Mrs G from taking it out. 
While Mrs G had previously been injured in an accident, it doesn't seem to have had a long-
term impact on her. I dont think that made the policy unsuitable, or that Mr and Mrs G would 
have refused to take the policy if theyd been given clearer information. The lack of records of the mortgage account suggest it was closed before 2004. As such, the 
regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share don't apply in this 
case. So, Santander doesn't have to refund any of the commission that it might have 
received for selling PPI to Mr and Mrs G. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Gs comments. But these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman