DRN-1895090
The complaint
Mr K complains about how much he was charged for his Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) home insurance policy.
What happened
Many years ago, Mr K took home insurance through his building society. In 2018, RSA took 
over the underwriting of the policy, at which point it charged M K £899 for the year. In 2019, 
RSA invited renewal of the policy for the same price. Mr K found he could get a new policy 
from RSA for £301. He then made a complaint about his building society, the previous 
underwriter and RSA. Mr K is unhappy with how much the price increased over the years, 
and with what RSA charged him.
Following our involvement, the previous insurer made an offer of settlement as a gesture of 
goodwill. Weve dealt with that under a separate complaint reference, as we have for Mr Ks 
complaint against the building society. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint, against RSA, should be upheld. Mr K disagreed, 
so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr K fairly 
throughout the period he held its insurance policy.
If I find that RSA hasnt treated Mr K fairly, I will look to see what compensation would be 
fair. However, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
RSA is only responsible for the price of the policy from the time it became the underwriter, 
which for Mr K was at his 2018 renewal. It is not responsible for what was charged by the 
previous insurer. In 2018, RSA charged the same price that Mr K had paid the previous year. 
And it quoted the same price when offering renewal in 2019. So, RSA had not increased the 
price of the policy.
RSA has given us information about how it decided how much to charge Mr K for his policy. I 
cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but I can assure Mr K that Ive carefully 
considered what RSA has provided. From what Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA has 
treated Mr K unfairly when it set the price of the policy. And it applied the same process to all 
the customers it inherited from the previous insurer at that time.
In 2019, Mr K found he could get insurance from RSA for much less. So, I can understand 
why he thinks this indicates that he was treated unfairly. But I understand the new quote was 
for a different policy, with different levels of cover, excesses and terms and conditions. So, I 
dont think this provides a direct comparison  and I wouldnt expect the price to be the 
same. 
The new quote also included a new customer discount  which is intended to lower the price 
to help attract new customers. That means that a new customer will often be paying less 
than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. So, just because his existing policy cost 
a lot more than the new quote Mr K obtained  that doesnt mean the amount charged was 
unfair.
There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number 
of years. I can see that RSA included this information on the letters sent to Mr K in 2018 and 
2019. So, it complied with these rules. But the rules dont go as far as to say insurers need 
to tell their customers about alternative products. So, I dont think RSA needed to tell Mr K 
that alternative products were available when it wrote to him.
Overall, considering how RSA set the price of Mr Ks policy, I dont think it acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman