DRN-1436019
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Collingwood Insurance Services (UK) Limited delayed refunding him 
his insurance premium. As a result, he says he missed out on the opportunity to purchase a 
fan in the sales.
What happened
Mr A purchased a car insurance policy from Collingwood in June 2019. His existing insurer 
provided a cheaper renewal premium, so he rang Collingwood a few days later and 
cancelled the policy. It told him a refund would be made onto the card he used to purchase 
the policy with, within 5 working days.
Mr A didnt receive a refund, so he contacted Collingwood again on 3 July 2019. It 
apologised and explained that the agent he originally spoke to hadnt processed the refund 
at the time of the cancellation. He was told it could take up to five working days for the 
refund to be processed.  And it offered him £25 for the inconvenience he had been caused. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this and explained that as a result of the delay in receiving the 
refund, he had missed out on purchasing a fan in the sales. 
One of our investigators looked into his concerns. Mr A told her he received the refund on 4 
July 2019. In summary she accepted there had been delays in his policy premium being 
refunded. But she didnt think the business could have done more. The funds were credited 
10 days later than they should have been. He waited until the weekend to purchase the fan 
when the it was no longer on sale. She thought the revised offer of £50 made by the 
business was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree so the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr As complaint in part. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that there was a delay in Collingwood refunding the insurance premium to 
Mr As account. So, the issue I need to decide is what impact this had on him and what 
losses (if any) he suffered as a result of the delay. 
It appears that when Mr A first contacted Collingwood he was told it could take up to five 
working days for the refund to be made. The refund should have been made by 24 June 
2019, but Mr A didnt contact Collingwood until 3 July 2019. I understand and accept Mr As 
point that he shouldnt have to chase the business. However, if he was relying on that refund 
to purchase a fan, I would have expected him to contact Collingwood shortly after the 
deadline he had been given had expired and explain that he needed the funds urgently.But he didnt contact Collingwood until 3 July 2019, nine days after he was told the refund 
would be paid. And the refund was made to him the following day. Mr A accepted that he 
waited a couple of days before going back to purchase the fan.
Mr A provided us with a photograph showing fans that were discounted in a sale. And I dont 
doubt it was his intention to purchase one. But the difficulty I have is that I dont have any 
evidence of when the sale started or finished. And it seems to me from what Mr A has said, 
that the fans may still have been available at the time the refund was made to him, but not 
when he went back to the shop a few days later at the weekend. 
If the purchase of the fan was important to Mr A, I think its possible he could have tried to 
purchase it before the weekend. I say this because Ive not been provided with any evidence 
that shows the fan couldnt be purchased or reserved online, or that Mr A wasnt able to do 
that. Also, Ive not seen any evidence that the shop Mr A had seen the fans in wasnt open in 
the evening. Mr A has told our investigator he was usually home from work at about 6.00 
pm. So, it seems to me if the shop was open in the evenings he could possibly have gone 
then.
The other difficulty I have, is that it appears Mr A is saying he was relying on the refund to 
purchase the fan. That may well have been the case, but its also possible Mr A may have 
had other means of purchasing the fan whilst he was waiting for the refund to be credited to 
him. And I think its possible he could have explored other options to enable him to purchase 
the fan whilst he was waiting for the refund to be credited to him. And Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows he could only purchase the fan when he received the refund.
I do understand Mr A will be disappointed with my decision. But as Ive said, its not in 
dispute the payment of the premium refund was delayed by Collingwood. And I dont think 
the initial offer of £25 it made was enough to compensate him for that delay and the 
inconvenience he incurred. I think considering the delay was relatively short and that 
Collingwood paid the refund the day after it was notified the refund hadnt been paid; that the 
revised offer of £50 was reasonable. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
believe it needs to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint in part. On acceptance of this 
decision by Mr A, I direct Collingwood Insurance Services (UK) Limited, to pay him £50 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman