DRN-3699223
The complaint
Miss T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss T applied for a credit card with Capital One in May 2018. The credit card account was 
opened with a credit limit of £1250 which was never increased. 
Miss T says that Capital One shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt 
take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. 
She says Capital One didnt check it was affordable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. They didnt think Capital One had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Miss T disagreed. She said that she had experienced financial difficulties  including with a 
previous Capital One credit card account  and this should have caused Capital One to 
refuse her new credit application.
As Miss T didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Capital 
One acted unfairly and lent to Miss T irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Capital One needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Ts borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Capital One has provided a copy of the checks it completed when opening Miss Ts account. 
It says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss T in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Capital One saw that Miss T had only £1,500 of debt with other 
lenders but she had been in default on a mail order account and a credit card about eight 
months before her application. This alone wasnt necessarily a reason not to lend to her, but 
I think it would have been reasonable for Capital One to make extra checks in light of this 
information.
As I consider that it would have been appropriate for Capital One to make further checks 
before lending to Miss T Ive looked at Miss Ts financial circumstances at the time to try to 
establish what Capital One would have seen if it had done further checks.
Miss T told this service that she had defaulted on five accounts and had missed 28 
payments on other credit. Miss T thought that she had defaulted on her previous Capital One 
credit card account.
However, it wasnt possible to verify the information about Miss Ts alleged defaults and 
missed repayments. Miss T provided some screenshots of her credit file, but it wasnt 
enough to be able to safely say that Capital Ones basic checks were incorrect. The 
screenshots mentioned the defaults and missed payments in the last six months but the 
screenshots were not dated, so I cant safely say these were in the months preceding Miss 
Ts application. Similarly, screenshots which showed missed payments in 2017 & 2018 and 
greater levels of external borrowing than that identified by Capital Ones checks couldnt be 
positively identified as belonging to Miss T. I also looked at the bank statements Miss T 
provided from around the same time but could not identify any transactions which might 
relate to repayments of the level of debt Miss T says she had at the time. 
Capital One also provided evidence that Miss T did not default on her previous account with 
it and that no debt had been sold on to a third party as suggested by Miss T. The account 
had been paid off in August 2017 and later closed. I think its likely Miss T has mistaken the 
action that was taken on the account Miss T has complained about here  which was 
eventually sold on to a third party - with her first account. Miss T has also said that she took 
out a loan with a credit union to pay off that first card. The account was closed with a 
payment of around £278. Even taking this into account I do not think it makes a difference to 
Capital Ones decision to lend to Miss T as the loan was either paid off by the time Capital 
One did its checks or was included in the external borrowing figures anyway.
Looking at Miss Ts income and expenditure in the months before she took out the credit 
card I can see that her income was supplemented by child benefit and working and child tax 
credits. I have discounted regular payments received from another individual as Miss T 
explains they were for reimbursement. Miss Ts essential expenditure each month was 
around £1,700 a month. Although they do not appear on Miss Ts statements I have also 
taken into account childcare costs and rent paid. It is possible there is another account I 
havent seen on which these appear, or that they were paid by another party. Miss T 
indicates that there was a third party to whom her finances were linked at the time.
 
Having done this, it seems that Miss T had a disposable income each month of at least 
£400. On this basis, I think sustainable repayments on a credit card with a limit of £1,250 
would have been affordable for Miss T even if she used all of the credit limit. I think Miss T 
would have been able to repay that balance over a reasonable period of time and she didnt 
appear to be overindebted.
On balance, on the information I have available, I am satisfied that Capital Ones decision to 
lend to Miss T was reasonable and proportionate and I dont think Miss T lost out as a result 
of anything Capital One did wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint. It follows that 
Capital One (Europe) plc, does not have to do anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman