DRN-4077041
The complaint
H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined its claim on its commercial property 
insurance policy following a break in. 
Mr S is a director of H and brings this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr S had commercial property insurance for his business  H, which was underwritten by 
UKI. In September 2022 there was a break in at Hs premises. Damage was caused to the 
building and there was stock, equipment and cash stolen. 
Mr S made a claim on Hs policy, however it was declined by UKI. It said the locks on the 
door of the premises didnt comply with the conditions in the policy, which meant there would 
be no cover for the claim. It also said that as the key to the safe had been kept on the 
premises, there would have been no cover for the money stolen from the safe any way, as 
this was also an exclusion. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and made a complaint, but RSA didnt uphold it. So he brought 
Hs complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld in part. 
She said that while the security condition may not have been adhered to, this wasnt material 
to the loss. She said as the lock had been cut off, having the correct lock wouldnt have 
prevented the theft. So she thought UKI should reconsider the claim for the stolen contents 
and damaged door. However she thought it had acted fairly by declining the claim for the 
stolen money from the safe, as the key had been stored in the premises and used to access 
the cash by the thief. 
Mr S accepted our investigators outcome. However UKI didnt. It said the locks on Hs door 
didnt comply with its security condition and it said if the correct locks had been used then 
the theft would likely have been prevented. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has relied on the following condition in the policy to decline Hs claim:
8 Security Minimum Protections
1 on timber final exit doors:
a if single leaf, a mortice deadlock conforming to BS3621 with matching boxed steel striking 
plate;
b if double leaf:
i on the first closing leaf, flush or barrel bolts, the latter at least 200mm (8") long, or key 
operated locks or bolts, fitted top and bottom in every case; and
ii on the second closing leaf, a mortice deadlock conforming to BS3621 with matching boxed 
steel striking plate, or a substantial padlocking bar and good quality close shackle padlock; 
and
c if single or double leaf, and also outward opening, hinge bolts fitted top and bottom.
It said Hs door didnt meet point b or point c. Mr S disputes that the bolts werent 200mm 
long, however accepts that there werent hinge bolts fitted at both the top and bottom of the 
door, as required by point c. So it seems from this that point c wasnt met. 
However, at this service we dont just consider the terms and conditions of a policy. We also 
consider if these have been relied on fairly in the circumstances of a complaint. And as part 
of this, wed consider not just if a condition had been Met, but whether non-compliance with 
the condition was material to the loss being claimed for.
Ive looked at photos of the door that was broken into. And I can see that the thieves fully cut 
out one of the locks. Further the initial report from the loss adjuster stated as follows:
the rear door lock has been cut out and the timber door forced open
From this, it appears that the thieves may have initially been unsuccessful at breaking the 
locks, so instead cut out the entire lock instead. And they had equipment to enable them to 
do this. Considering the level of force used, and that the door itself was cut into, I dont think 
that compliance with the security condition would have prevented the break in from 
happening. As the level of force and equipment used would have likely been successful 
even where two hinge locks were in place. 
When relying on a condition to decline a claim, wed expect an insurer to demonstrate both 
non-compliance with the condition and that if the insured had complied, it likely would have 
prevented the loss. Based on the above, I dont agree UKI has shown that compliance with 
the condition would have stopped the break in. I therefore dont think it acted fairly by relying 
on this condition to decline the claim.
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that UKI should reconsider the claim for the 
stolen contents and damage to the door, without applying the security condition. 
However UKI also declined Hs claim for the money stolen from the safe, due to the following 
condition:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that all keys or notes of combinations of safes or 
strongrooms will be in Your custody or that of an authorised employee during Business 
Hours and not left in the Premises out of Business Hours.
As the key to the safe was stored in the premises over night and was used by the thieves to 
access the money, I agree its acted fairly by applying this condition and wont ask it to pay 
Hs claim for the stolen money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Hs complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to 
reconsider its claim for the damage to the door and stolen items, without applying the 
security conditions. With the exception of the claim for the stolen money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, on behalf of H, to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman