DRN-2662212
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mrs C holds with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
(RBS). Mrs C is unhappy with how her payments are accounted for, and with how 
transactions are displayed online.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases. 
Mrs C grouped her complaint under four main arears; Ive done the same in my findings.
RBS has explained the way it deals with overpayments. Briefly, they go into an internal 
suspense account initially. Theyre then assigned to the mortgage account after about ten 
days, back-dated for interest purposes to the date the money was received. I appreciate 
Mrs C doesnt like that arrangement, but the back-dating means theres no loss to Mrs C. 
Ive no power to tell RBS to do things differently, as Im not the regulator. 
Nothing in the evidence Ive seen gives me any reason to think RBS isnt crediting the full 
amounts Mrs C makes to her account, and apportioning them appropriately across her 
sub-accounts. If Mrs C remains unconvinced, she could instruct a suitably-qualified 
professional to audit her mortgage and present RBS with the results in a new complaint. 
Shed have to meet the cost of the audit herself, but if it revealed errors that were to her 
detriment, then cost of the audit could be included in any claim for redress.
Lenders recalculate the interest they charge, to reflect reductions in the mortgage balance. 
But they dont recalculate monthly mortgage payments on a regular basis. If the amount 
received each month exceeds the interest being charged, the extra is taken off the balance; 
this works to the borrowers advantage by accelerating the rate at which debt is being repaid.
Its not in my remit to tell lenders how much information they should provide, and the 
channels by which they provide it. Thats a matter for the regulator. I understand Mrs C 
would like RBS to make more information available online, but thats a matter for RBS 
commercial judgement. RBS is required to send a statement once a year; but can send out 
interim statements on request. Its already apologised for the occasion where it failed to 
respond promptly to such a request from Mrs J. Theres nothing more it needs to do.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman