DRN-2786632
The complaint
Mr V complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) closed his bank 
account and wont return money held in the account to him. 
What happened
Mr V had a current account with NatWest, which he opened with the bank in 2016. In August 
2020, a payment of just under £6,000 was made into Mr Vs account.
NatWest took the view that it needed to look into the payment and how Mr V was operating 
his account. And it blocked Mr Vs account whilst it did that. NatWest spoke to Mr V and 
asked him about the HMRC payment. Mr V told the bank that the money was a tax refund he 
was due after hed completed a tax self -assessment via HMRCs online portal. 
NatWest asked Mr V to provide paperwork to support whatd hed said about the payment. 
Mr V gave the bank a copy of a screen shot of the HMRC portal showing the refund amount 
he was due. However, it said the information hed provided wasnt sufficient to show he was 
entitled to the money in his account. So, it didnt release the money to him. Following this the 
bank decided to close Mr Vs account immediately.
Mr V wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where one 
of our investigators looked into things. Mr V explained that not having access to his funds 
has impacted his mental health and led to him being homeless. The investigator reviewed 
the information Mr V had provided and agreed with the banks assessment. He also said that 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Vs account. 
Mr V didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. And if there ends up being a problem with the money paid into 
his account, he would just pay it back to HMRC. So, he wants the bank to release the money 
remaining in his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr V feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to NatWest.  And Im sorry to hear that Mr V has had such a difficult time. 
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that NatWest has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
NatWest may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. NatWest is 
also entitled to ask a customer for more information about how they use their account, 
including payments which are made into and from an account. And its not for this service to 
interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes 
and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened.
Ive no doubt that not having a functioning bank account or access to money in his account 
made things difficult for Mr V. Mr V has been very honest with us about how whats 
happened has impacted his mental health and hes said that he had trouble finding 
somewhere to live because he was struggling financially. So, I can understand why he found 
this experience with NatWest stressful and upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that NatWest was complying with its obligations when it blocked Mr 
Vs account. The bank has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that 
it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr V inconvenience, I cant say NatWest treated him 
unfairly when it blocked his account. 
The crux of Mr Vs complaint is that he wants the money that was paid into his account 
released to him. Mr V says the money is a tax refund hes due. In support of what hes said, 
hes provided copies of a HMRC screenshot showing the amount of refund hes due, which 
he says was generated when he completed his tax return. NatWest didnt think the 
information was sufficient, and I can understand the banks concerns. I say this because the 
screenshot doesnt show the information which led to the refund calculation such as Mr Vs 
income, and tax hes already paid.
It maybe that Mr V can now provide more information about the HMRC payment to the bank.  
But, in the circumstances, I can understand why NatWest wanted to know more about the 
funds. I can understand too why it didnt consider Mr V had adequately explained his 
entitlement to the money. So, I cant say the bank has treated Mr V unfairly when it decided 
not to release the money to him in order to comply with its legal obligations. And I wont be 
asking the bank to do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Vs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
NatWest closed Mr Vs account with immediate notice. Having looked at all the information 
provided, in my view that was reasonable, given the concerns the bank had about how Mr V 
was operating his account. And Im satisfied it did so in line with the terms and relevant 
regulations. So, I cant say NatWest have treated Mr V unfairly when it decided to close his 
account without notice. Ive also kept in mind that Mr V had access to another bank account, 
so I think the impact of the immediate closure would have been reduced. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr V feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and worrying time. So, I realise Mr V will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say NatWest have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr V unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman