DRN-2578960
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy as he believes N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance 
(Northridge) has supplied him with a car which isnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In January 2019, Mr C acquired a used car through a 60 month hire purchase agreement 
with Northridge. The cash price of the car was £10,998. It was first registered in December 
2016 and it had travelled around 17,000 miles. 
In May 2020, the car broke down and had to be recovered to a garage. It was suspected 
there was an issue with the engine. Upon inspection, low compression was found in one of 
the three engine cylinders. The garage believed this may be an issue related to the head 
gasket or damage to the engines piston. In order to carry out a full diagnosis, they said the 
engine would need to be stripped which would incur a significant cost and its likely the 
engine would need to be replaced.
Mr C complained to Northridge. He said he believed the potential engine issue was a known 
manufacturer fault for this particular car and model. Northridge said given Mr C had been in 
possession of the car since January 2019, he needed to provide evidence to show the issue 
with the engine was present or developing at the point of supply. Mr C provided 
correspondence from the garage who inspected the car which outlined the issue however 
Northridge said it wasnt enough as it didnt say whether the issue wouldve been present at 
supply. 
As Mr C maintained his car was impacted by this known issue, he arranged for the car to be 
looked at by a manufacturer approved garage in November 2020. They determined the fault 
wasnt the known manufacturer issue, which concerned the engine and coolant system, 
therefore it wouldnt be repaired under the relevant goodwill scheme for such affected cars. 
However similar to the first garage, they reported low compression in an engine cylinder and 
said to correctly diagnose the problem, the engine needed to be stripped and its likely it 
would need to be replaced. Mr C said he was told it would cost approximately £5,000 to do 
so. Since the car broke down in May 2020, it has been stored at a garage as Mr C has been 
unable to drive it.
Unhappy with the issues with the car, Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the case was upheld. They believed the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied as it wasnt reasonably durable. Based on the comments of both 
garages, he recommended a repair is carried out to replace the engine at no cost to Mr C. 
He also said Northridge should refund the monthly payments since May 2020 which is when 
the engine failed, pay £50 to cover the cost of towing the car and remove any adverse 
information from Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C agreed but Northridge disagreed. In summary, they said the car had travelled 
thousands of miles so it cant be said it wasnt durable especially in the absence of 
supporting mechanical evidence. They said based on the relevant law, as the car had been 
in Mr Cs possession for more than six months, the onus was on him to prove there was an 
inherent fault when the car was supplied. They commented parts of a used car may fail 
prematurely but that doesnt automatically mean the car wasnt durable. Lastly, they said if 
Mr C had arranged an independent inspection and it confirmed the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at supply, they would accept the investigators opinion. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint, let me explain why. 
Mr C acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Northridge is the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint 
about the supply and the quality of Mr Cs car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into the contract that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a vehicle, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the vehicles history.
Northridge has supplied Mr C with a used car which was over two years old and had 
travelled around 17,000 miles. So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect that parts of the car might have already suffered some wear and tear and it may need 
repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn.
Based on the inspections of both garages, its clear there is a fault with the engine. Although 
neither are able to identify the exact fault, they both report there is low compression in one of 
the engine cylinders. I know Mr C believed the car had a known fault but the manufacturer 
approved garage has confirmed this isnt the case as there is no issue with the cars coolant 
system. 
I note Northridge doesnt believe sufficient mechanical evidence has been provided to 
demonstrate the fault wouldve been present at supply but they would be willing to consider 
the findings of an independent inspection report. Due to cost and the fact the engine would 
need to be stripped to diagnose the fault, Mr C has been unable to arrange for this to be 
carried out. Given these circumstances, I dont think its fair to ask Mr C to provide further 
evidence, I believe theres enough information to persuade me that on balance, the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I say this because although it was a used car, at the time the engine failed in May 2020, the 
car was only three years old and it had travelled around 26,000 miles in total, 9,000 miles 
while in Mr Cs possession. Given the age and low mileage, I believe its fair to say the car 
would still be considered relatively new.
While I accept parts of a used car may need to be maintained and/or repaired sooner than a 
brand new one, I agree with the investigator that the engines cylinder isnt necessarily a 
serviceable part of the car like the tyres of brakes for example. There is insufficient evidence 
to suggest Mr C shouldve been aware of the low compression in the engine cylinder and 
required maintenance earlier. On balance, Im not persuaded such an engine failure is down 
to normal wear and tear. Equally, there is no indication the fault is due to Mr Cs driving style or third party damage. Overall, I dont believe a reasonable person would expect a car of this 
age and relatively low mileage to experience such a significant fault to the extent that the 
engine has failed like it has here and it needs to be replaced. In my opinion, I believe the 
engine has failed prematurely which suggests there was likely a problem present or 
developing at the time of supply meaning the car wasnt sufficiently durable. On that basis, I 
dont believe Mr Cs car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
I understand Mr C wants to reject the car but where there has been such a breach of 
contract, the CRA allows one opportunity for repair outside the first 30 days so I think its fair 
to allow for a repair to take place. Should that repair fail, rejection may be considered.
In this case, the garages have said the exact fault with the engine is unclear but they have 
both said its likely a new engine would be required. Based on what has happened and the 
relevant law, I think it would be reasonable to say that Northridge should arrange for the car 
to be repaired at no cost to Mr C.
Due to the car not being of satisfactory quality for the reasons Ive explained above, it has 
been stored at the garage since May 2020. I dont believe its fair that Mr C has been paying 
for a car that he hasnt been able to use due to the fault with the engine and he wasnt kept 
mobile. So I believe Northridge should refund the monthly payments he has made from May 
2020, which is when the engine failed, up to the time the car is repaired and returned to him. 
Mr C said as he was unable to use the car he had to seek alternative transport. In November 
2020, his father bought another car at a cost of £1,767, of which he was an insured driver, 
meaning he was able to use the car to stay mobile. While I appreciate this was the case, as 
the car was bought in his father name and I dont know the details or exact reasons for 
acquiring it, I dont think it would be fair to ask Northridge to reimburse this cost. I believe the 
refund of the monthly payments from May 2020 is a fair resolution in regards to this point.
Mr C said he had to pay £50 for the car to be towed to the manufacturer approved garage in 
October 2020 and he has provided a bank statement proving the same, he also provided 
evidence of a diagnostic test at a cost of £114. These out of pocket expenses were a result 
of the fault with the engine so I believe it would be fair for Northridge to reimburse these 
costs. 
Mr C has described the impact this situation has had on him including being left without a car 
from May 2020 to November 2020 and having to arrange for the car to be towed to the 
garage. If Mr C accepts this decision, he will also be without the car for even longer as the 
repair is carried out. Given these circumstances, its clear there has been trouble and upset 
caused, so I believe its fair Northridge also pay £200 compensation to Mr C. 
Summary 
Im sorry to hear the car didnt perform as expected due to the fault with the engine. I dont 
believe a reasonable person would expect such a fault to occur given the cars age and 
mileage. Overall, Im not satisfied Northridge supplied Mr C with a car that was of 
satisfactory quality and they need to put things right as explained.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance must:
- Arrange for Mr Cs car to be repaired at no cost to him;- Refund payments made from May 2020 up to when the car is returned to Mr C 
following the repair*; 
- Refund £50 for the cost of towing the car to the manufacturer approved garage*;
- Refund £114 for the diagnostic test*;
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file from May 2020 up to when 
the car is returned to him;
- Pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
* If N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance should also pay 8% simple interest 
per year on all the above refunds calculated from the date of payment up to the date of 
settlement.
*If N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman