DRN-4478573
The complaint
Mr G complains True Potential Wealth Management LLP unreasonably delayed informing 
him it was declining to advise on the transfer of his defined benefit pension, meaning he lost 
out on a higher transfer value, which caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr G had deferred benefits in two defined benefit (DB) occupational pension schemes. The 
larger was from his employment with a firm Ill refer to as U, and a smaller one from his 
employment with firm B, which is the main subject of this complaint. 
Mr G was receiving income from rental properties and was also working part-time. He 
wanted to transfer both his DB schemes to his workplace defined contribution plan so he 
could take the benefits more flexibly and pass any residual funds to his son. At the time he 
was 58, so would receive the state pension in eight years time. 
On 3 December 2021 Mr G met with Mr J from True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
(True Potential) for a free initial consultation. Mr J took some general details about Mr Gs 
circumstances, and about the two schemes he was interested in transferring.
On 23 December 2021 Mr J requested a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the 
trustees of the B pension scheme, and details of the retirement benefits Mr G would be 
entitled to. As it was a DB (final salary) scheme, it came with valuable guaranteed benefits, 
so transferring might not be recommended. 
In February 2022 B issued a CETV of around £47,583 (CETV1) guaranteed until 30 April 
2022 but hadnt provided the early retirement quotes Mr J had requested. The guarantee 
period of CETV1 expired before the analysis was complete, so Mr J requested a new CETV 
from B and messaged Mr G on 27 May to say there had been a bit of a problem. On 7 June 
2022 B provided a new CETV of just under £37,607 (CETV2), guaranteed until 7 September 
2022. Although he was disappointed at the fall in value, Mr G still wanted to proceed with the 
transfer of his B pension as quickly as possible. 
For regulatory reasons, DB transfers can only be recommended by a properly qualified 
pension transfer specialist, which Mr J wasnt. So once hed completed the initial information 
gathering, he had to submit Mr Gs proposal to True Potentials specialist transfer team for 
formal assessment. Prior to submission at the end of June 2022 Mr J had an initial 
discussion with a colleague, who told him it was unlikely True Potential would accept such a 
low CETV. In the meantime Mr G chased progress several times, conscious of the 
approaching 7 September deadline.
Finally on 21 July 2022 Mr J told Mr G his firm had declined to provide advice because the 
CETV was too low. Mr G was shocked and asked for a proper explanation. But True 
Potential only gave generic reasons against DB transfers, not all of which were relevant to 
Mr G. 
Mr G complained to True Potential in August 2022, pointing out if the CETV of the U scheme 
was included, the total would exceed the £100,000 threshold. He thought Mr J should have 
said at the outset True Potential couldnt help him, allowing Mr G to seek advice elsewhere 
before CETV1 expired. True Potential explained Mr J didnt hold the necessary qualifications 
to advise on DB transfers, which are complex and require specialist knowledge. As a wealth 
management partner working remotely on True Potentials behalf, his role was to obtain the 
relevant initial information about the transfer for consideration by the pension transfer 
specialists. A CETV doesnt provide all the information needed to assess a transfer, and 
True Potential said B hadnt responded to Mr Js enquiries in a timely fashion. The second 
CETV was lower, due to external factors beyond True Potentials control, such as rising 
interest rates and gilt prices.
True Potential only considers propositions where at least eight weeks remain of a CETV 
guarantee period and will routinely decline to advise when less than two weeks remain. This 
is due to the complexity of the work required, and the regulatory requirement for clients not 
to be rushed into making such an important financial decision. True Potential said it wasnt 
obliged to provide detailed reasons for declining to advise Mr G, as expressing any opinion 
risked breaching the regulatory threshold of providing advice. However it recognised Mr J 
could have done more to keep Mr G updated, so offered £100 to reflect the inconvenience 
this caused. 
Mr G subsequently engaged another financial firm of pension transfer specialists (P) which 
recommended both transfers, based on a third CETV from B of £33,684 (CETV3), and from 
U with a CETV of around £92,000. But Mr G considered hed lost around £10,000 between 
the highest and lowest CETVs from B, so didnt accept the response to his complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September, explaining why I was thinking 
of upholding it. 
Provisional findings 
I made the following provisional findings (in summary)
In assessing this complaint I considered the relevant rules and regulatory guidance, and 
what was good industry practice at the relevant time. Even though it ultimately didnt provide 
Mr G with advice, True Potential was still required to follow the regulators Principles for 
Business (PRIN). In particular: Principle 2 which requires a firm to conduct its business with 
due skill, care, and diligence.
Mr G said hed made Mr J aware of his wishes and requirements from the outset. He 
wanted to transfer the B pension as he didnt need to rely on it for retirement income as he 
had other sources of income. He couldnt pass the spouse pension to his son, meaning any 
residual benefits would die with him.
But an advisers role isnt simply to facilitate someones wishes, no matter how strongly or 
clearly they are expressed. They must provide a recommendation based on a detailed 
evaluation of the clients financial circumstances, objectives, and attitude to risk. Transfers 
from DB pensions are highly regulated and time consuming to complete, and progress 
depends on a number of factors outside the advisers control. Since 2001 the FCA has 
required such requests to be considered from the standpoint that they are unlikely to be 
suitable due to the loss of valuable guaranteed benefits. As both Mr Gs DB pensions were 
valued at more than £30,000, its a legal requirement that he received regulated financial 
advice, regardless of the merits of the proposal. 
Mr G had approached Mr J (his partners wealth manager), who was acting on True 
Potentials behalf on a self-employed, restricted basis. His role was to gather sufficient 
information from Mr G and the ceding schemes to enable an adviser with the appropriate 
qualifications and permissions to assess the suitability of the transfer. I didnt think it wouldve been Mr Js decision whether True Potential took Mr G on as a client or provided 
him with advice. True Potential wasnt obliged to provide advice to Mr G, or to explain its 
reasons. But as it had an advertised minimum CETV of £100,000 for advising on DB 
transfers, I thought as soon as it was clear the CETV was below this limit, Mr G should have 
been told, giving him the option to go elsewhere. 
This warning is included on True Potentials website, Please note: we are only able to 
review Final Salary Pensions with a cash equivalent transfer value of at least £100,000. 
which Mr G was given a link to, and did visit to check their FCA authorisation. But it wasnt 
drawn to his attention, and was quite hard to find, so I didnt think it was surprising Mr G 
missed it.  
Mr G was also given a copy of True Potentials terms of business including its fees and 
charges. Section 4 covers the services it provides. And under the heading Occupational 
Pension Transfer Business it gave the following reasons it may decline to provide advice:
On assessment of your current and future circumstances, needs and goals, or
If we do not receive sufficient information from the scheme trustees within a 
reasonable timescale to make a recommendation.

So although Mr G was put on notice it was possible True Potential may decline to advise 
him, the terms of business didnt mention the £100,000 limit, so I didnt think he had enough 
information at that point to seek another adviser. 
True Potential says it couldnt assess the transfer within the initial guarantee period for 
CETV1 as they hadnt received all the information Mr J requested from B. The benefit 
statement from February 2022, showed Mr G could expect an annual pension at his normal 
retirement age of 65 in 2029 at around £1,187. Or he could select a tax-free lump sum of 
around £5,799 and a reduced annual pension of £970. But it didnt include the early 
requirement quote Mr J had requested from B. 
CETV1 from B of just over £47,583 (calculated on 31 January 2022, guaranteed until 30 
April 2022) is clearly below True Potentials minimum. So I said Mr J should have been 
aware in February that True Potential would be likely to decline to advise Mr G, regardless of 
anything he was waiting for from B. At the time of drafting the provisional decision, I hadnt 
seen the March 2022 CETV for the U scheme, which Mr G said was around £128,000. But 
even if Mr G had wanted both transfers considered together, it wasnt certain True Potential 
would agree, if one was below £100,000. 
So had Mr J referred the proposal to the specialist team in February 2022, I thought it likely 
thats when Mr G wouldve been told True Potential wasnt prepared to advise him, giving 
him the opportunity to seek advice elsewhere much earlier. I also mentioned that due to the 
complex and time-consuming nature of the analysis, True Potential prefers at least eight 
weeks remaining of the CETV guarantee period and will routinely refuse to advise if less 
than two weeks remain. Which is another reason I thought Mr G should have been warned 
True Potential might not be able to help him as soon as the CETV was received. 
Based on what Mr G actually did once hed been told in July 2022 that True Potential had 
declined to advise him, I thought its more likely than not hed have taken the same action, 
but earlier. A month after being notified True Potential couldnt help, Mr G sourced new 
advisers through the Unbiased website, and that firm introduced him to a pension transfer 
specialist firm P. The initial discussions with P took place in mid-September 2022, the 
suitability report and application for the transfer of the B scheme were issued in November 
2022, and that transfer was completed in February 2023. Following a similar timeline from 
February 2022, Mr G wouldve started looking for new advisers in March, and engaged P in 
April, by which time thered be less than a month remaining of the guarantee period for CETV1. So I wasnt persuaded even if Mr G acted quite promptly, hed have been able to 
secure the regulated advice based on CETV1, so I thought a new CETV would always have 
been necessary. B issued CETV2 on 7 June 2022, which was guaranteed to 7 September 
2022.
I thought it was reasonable to assume P wouldve recommended the transfer based on 
CETV2, having done so based o CETV3 which was even lower. So Mr G wouldve 
transferred out of B based on CETV2 valued at £37,607, and CETV3 wouldnt have been 
necessary. I couldnt say for sure when the transfer would have happened as there are 
simply too many variables. But as I thought its more likely than not it would have been within 
the guarantee period which ended on 7 September 2022, for the purposes of this decision I 
thought it fair to say the transfer wouldve happened on that date. 
I appreciated Mr G said his intention was always to transfer both DB plans, but I didnt 
consider any alleged loss arising from the transfer of the U scheme. The original CETV of 
£128,000 from March 2022 and the non-statutory transfer value and deferred benefit 
statement U issued on 11 January 2022 wouldve showed values above True Potentials 
minimum. So had these been available to Mr J he wouldve had no reason to warn Mr G 
True Potential might decline to advise him. In March 2022 U said it had made an error, so 
needed to carry out a recalculation and issued a new CETV guaranteed until 8 June 2022. It 
wasnt clear if or when Mr J actually accessed the quote. But even if Mr G engaged P and 
provided them with the new CETV shortly after it was produced, Ps assessment of the U 
scheme took around three months, so I couldnt say its more likely than not it wouldve been 
completed within the guarantee period of the March 2022 CETV. The trustees of the U 
scheme had told Mr J it only issues one CETV a year, so although P requested a new one in 
October 2022 it wasnt issued until 28 March 2023, Ps suitability report for the transfer of the 
U scheme was issued in May 2023 and that transfer completed in July 2023. 
While the B scheme was relatively unimportant in terms of Mr Gs retirement planning, the U 
scheme, being almost three times the value, was more significant. Bearing in mind the FCA 
set out in COBS 19.6.1G that it expects advisers to approach any DB transfer from the 
standpoint that it will not be suitable, a full analysis would always have been necessary to 
ensure the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. While it looks like P recommended the 
transfer of both Mr Gs DB schemes to his workplace pension, Im not persuaded its more 
likely than not he could have benefitted from the higher CETV of the U scheme which 
expired at the end of June 2022. And as U will only issue one CETV per year, I think Mr G 
would always have needed another CETV for U.
So in summary, while True Potential was entitled to decline to provide advice to Mr G and 
wasnt obliged to tell him why, the unreasonable delay in letting him know meant he was 
prevented from seeking advice elsewhere and transferring the benefits of the B scheme at a 
higher CETV than he eventually did. 
So I provisionally uphold the complaint and set out how True Potential should put things 
right.
Responses to the provisional decision
The response deadline was extended as both parties requested more time. 
Mr G responded in detail. His key points are summarised below:
A CETV is an industry standard and should be worked to, unless theres a good 
reason for the failure;He didnt understand why True Potential couldnt explain its reasoning, and how 
doing so might stray into advice
Id said a recommendation is based on an analysis of his objectives and 
circumstances, but True Potential carried out no such analysis, and he was never 
spoken to by the pension transfer specialists;
His initial conversation with Mr J was in December 2021, he couldve told him about 
the £100k limit then, allowing him to find someone else to facilitate the transfer;
The delays were caused by True Potential, not the trustees of B;
He wanted to transfer for good reasons, describing it as a no brainer, and has been 
unable to plan for over two years;
He holds True Potential responsible for his losses, which he thinks should be based 
on him transferring based on CETV1 of the B scheme and the March 2022 CETV of 
the U scheme;
True Potentials systems failed him, and they wont change unless they pay his full 
£50,000 loss;
The firm should be investigated by the FCA as their failings put clients at risk;
The £200 compensation is on the low side, due to the time and effort its taken to 
seek justice;
Mr G also provided a copy of the March 2022 transfer pack CETV for the U scheme valued 
at £128,430 with a guarantee period from 9 March 2022 to 8 June 2022.
True Potential had no comments to make in response to the provisional decision. Although 
they confirmed they had no evidence Mr J had seen the March 2022 U CETV referred to 
above.
 
Neither party disputed my assumption that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. 
So Im now in a position to issue the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr G for his comprehensive response, and I appreciate his strength of feeling that 
True Potential should be held responsible for him not being able to transfer both schemes at 
the highest valuation. I can see he has many unanswered questions, but I wont be 
responding to every query or point. I hope hell understand I mean no discourtesy by this. 
Instead Ill focus on giving my reasoning as to why Im still not going to uphold his complaint 
to the extent hed like.
Mr G says he had the misfortune of entrusting True Potential with the transfer and makes 
much of his misfortune at being dealt with by Mr J, and his status as a self-employed adviser 
working on behalf of True Potential. But Mr G explained is partner had recommended he 
approach Mr J direct, and Id seen no evidence Mr J represented himself as a pension 
transfer specialist. So while Mr G might regret his choice, I cant hold True Potential 
responsible for that. Mr G had his initial discussions with Mr J in December 2021, Mr J 
requested the CETV from B on 23 December 2021, but B didnt issue it until February 2022. 
So at the initial meeting Mr J didnt have enough information to know if True Potential might 
decline to advise Mr G. I still think it was only when Mr J received CETV1 in February 2022 that should have prompted the conversation with True Potentials pension transfer 
specialists in relation to the £100,000 minimum CETV. 
Mr Gs main point is that he made his wishes clear to Mr J and True Potential and they failed 
to deliver, causing him a financial loss. As by the time hed been referred to P, a specialist 
firm which was prepared to recommend the transfers, the value of both CETVs had fallen. I 
explained in the provisional decision I thought the initial value of the B scheme was enough 
for Mr J to have checked with True Potentials pension transfer specialist team, and if they 
declined to advise, to have informed Mr G straight away. But I also explained that if that had 
happened, and Mr G took the same action as he did in July, I didnt think it wouldve been 
possible for the advice process to be completed in time to secure CETV1 from the B scheme 
before it expired. 
I understand why Mr G wants the redress based on transferring both schemes together, 
which he now has done via P, and hes provided a copy to show he did have a valid CETV 
for the U scheme. But Ive explained that in February 2022 Mr J could only consider CETV1 
from B, as the corrected CETV for the U scheme wasnt issued until 22 March (although it 
was dated 9 March). Mr J might have seen the January CETV from U, but that wasnt valid 
as it contained an error so had to be recalculated. So at the point in February when I said Mr 
G shouldve been told True Potential might decline to give advice as the CETV was too low, 
he didnt have a valid CETV for the U scheme. If Mr G had been told to go elsewhere in 
February, hed have secured the services of P and had the initial discussions with them in 
April, and by that time he might have valid CETVs for both schemes. But while hed have 
almost the full guarantee period for the U scheme, thered be less than a month left of the 
CETV1 of the B scheme. And it had taken around nine weeks between Mr Gs initial 
consultation with P to the transfer application being issued. So Im not persuaded Mr G could 
have secured CETV1 even if hed acted very promptly, and there had been no delays, 
particularly with the added factor that March/April is a busy period for financial advisers as it 
coincides with the end of the tax year.
The trustees of the U scheme confirmed to Mr G that on 11 March 2022 theyd emailed the 
corrected CETV to Mr J and he had called to request the password, but its not clear if he 
had accessed it. True Potential didnt think he had. But in January 2022 Mr J had received 
an indicative quote and an email from U which said they only issue one CETV a year and so 
a new one couldnt be issued until July 2022. In fact, due to an error U issued a replacement 
for the January quote in March 2022, with a guaranteed period, but Mr J wouldnt have 
known that was going to happen in February.
And Ive explained that if Mr J had known the value of the U CETV, then its not so 
straightforward to say he shouldve warned Mr G True Potential might decline to advise him, 
as it was over the £100,000 and there was around eight weeks left of the guarantee period. 
So if I were to base my findings on Mr J having access to valid CETVs from both schemes, I 
couldnt fairly expect him to have been concerned that the value was below True Potentials 
limit and referred to the pension transfer specialists at that point. Or to have warned Mr G 
that True Potential might decline to give advice, prompting him to go elsewhere. I think its 
more likely Mr J would simply have carried on with the preparation work and submitted the 
proposals, either together or separately to the specialist team, at which point True Potential 
could still decide not to provide advice to Mr G.  Or they might have been prepared to only 
advise on the U scheme, meaning Mr G would still need to go elsewhere with the B scheme. 
A third possibility is that True Potential couldve advised Mr G against transferring one or 
both. I think the mismatch in the guarantee periods of the two schemes makes it unlikely Mr 
G wouldve been able to transfer both and benefit for the higher CETV for each scheme. 
Mr G may have considered the transfer of both his DB pensions to be a no brainer, but 
thats not how the regulator expects financial advisers to view them. As I explained, the FCA expects an adviser to start from the presumption that a DB transfer will not be suitable. A 
pension is designed to provide an income in retirement which might need to last for several 
decades. So giving up a guaranteed income for life, however modest, isnt generally 
recommended, as it becomes subject to investment risk and being exhausted far too early. 
Ive seen these risks were set out in Ps recommendation report in May 2023.
Mr G complains that True Potentials actions (by not facilitating his transfer or informing him 
sooner that they couldnt do so) put clients interests at risk. But transferring a DB pension is 
much more likely to put a clients interests at risk, hence the presumption of unsuitability. 
And from a firms point of view, advising on a DB transfer entails risk, which is why they are 
so highly regulated and require specialist advisers. Firms are aware that if they recommend 
the transfer of a DB pension meaning the consumer loses valuable guaranteed benefits, 
they risk that advice being complained about in the future, which may expose them to paying 
substantial redress. And if the result of their advice is that the transfer is not suitable, then 
they risk upsetting their client, who may not be happy to pay a fee for advice which didnt 
result in the outcome they hoped for. 
Ive already said True Potential werent obliged to advise Mr G, nor did they need to explain 
their reasons. I realise this is unsatisfactory from his point of view. But other than provide the 
generic reasons why a DB transfer might not be recommended (some of which werent 
relevant to Mr Gs own situation), any specific reasons which relate to Mr Gs particular 
circumstances have the potential to be considered as a personal recommendation, which 
could be construed as regulated financial advice. I think this is why True Potential said it had 
to be careful not to say anything which may stray into advice. Mr G was frustrated not to 
have had any direct contact with the pension transfer specialists. I presume that would only 
have been necessary if True Potential had actually given advice. So I dont think it made a 
difference here. 
Ive explained that if Mr J had accessed the March 2022 U CETV hed have no reason to 
think True Potential wouldnt assist Mr G. So I still think the only error I can hold True 
Potential responsible for, is that Mr J should have checked whether True Potential would be 
prepared to advise on transferring the B scheme given the CETV was below £100,000. As 
he didnt do that, Mr G was denied the opportunity of seeking advice elsewhere, until after 
July 2022. Sometimes a delay can work in a consumers favour as a later CETV may be 
higher or not much different, but unfortunately in this case, each CETV was lower. I dont 
think Mr G could have secured CETV1, but I think he ought to have been able to benefit from 
CETV2, and CETV3 shouldnt have been necessary.
So I uphold this complaint and will set out below how True Potential should put things right. 
Putting things right
I require True Potential to pay compensation to put Mr G as close as possible to the position 
hed be in, if the transfer of the B scheme had been completed on 7 September 2022, based 
on the second CETV of £37,607. 
Tax-free cash
True Potential should calculate the difference between CETV2 issued in June 2022 
and CETV3 issued in September 2022 (Value A).
I understand Mr G took the maximum tax-free lump sum, so calculate 25% of Value 
A being the additional tax-free cash he would have had (Value B)As I think Mr G would have had this on 7 September 2022, add 8% simple interest to 
Value B from 7 September 2022 to the date of my final decision and pay this (Value 
C) to Mr G in cash.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If True Potential deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been deducted. True Potential should give Mr G 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment loss
True Potential should obtain a notional value of Mr Gs workplace pension held with 
Legal & General as if CETV2 (less the tax-free cash figure mentioned above) was 
transferred in on 7 September 2022 and compare this with the actual value of his 
plan after CETV3 was transferred in on 24 February 2023.
The difference between the notional value and actual value represents Mr Gs 
financial loss. 
This loss should then be brought up to the date of my final decision in line with the 
performance of Mr Gs workplace plan. 
True Potential should pay the loss into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If True Potential is unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for the income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. I think its reasonable to 
assume Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so 
the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would have been able to take a 
tax- free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Mr G didnt pay any fee to True Potential, so theres nothing to refund. If Mr Gs new 
providers advice fee was based on the transfer value he would have paid a slightly 
higher fee based on CETV2. But for simplicity Im not going to adjust the 
compensation in this respect. 
In addition, True Potential should pay Mr G £200 to reflect the worry and 
inconvenience he has experienced. 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestL&G 
Workplace 
pensionStill exists 
and liquidThe actual 
investments 
within the plan 7 
September 
2022Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If True Potential deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been deducted. True Potential should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Your text here
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. True Potential Wealth Management LLP should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman