DRN-3950018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Nationwide Building Society did not advise them of a new higher rate it 
was offering when they were reinvesting their fixed rate ISAs and still within their cooling off 
period. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C reinvested their ISAs with a one-year fixed rate of 3.25% on 23 September 
2022. They later discovered a new rate of 4% had been introduced on 5 October 2022 and 
wanted this rate to be applied to their accounts given they were within the 30-day period 
during which ISAs can be reinvested post maturity, and within the 14-day cooling off period 
after their reinvestment decision. They say they should have been notified of the new rate 
when it was released. 
Mr and Mrs C say they also experienced long call wait times when calling to reinvest. They 
ask for the 4% rate to be applied to their accounts and want compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide apologised for the long call wait times, explaining the announcement of the base 
rate increase had driven up call volumes. It said the 4% rate was for customers with 
accounts maturing at that time and so would not be advertised on the savings homepage. Or 
in the savings watch email. It did not address Mr and Mrs Cs point that they still ought to be 
eligible for it. Unhappy with this response Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. She said Nationwide had notified 
Mr and Mrs C that the one-year fixed rate was 2.75% when their ISAs were due to mature. 
When they actually reinvested the rate had increased to 3.25% and they received that rate. 
As they had already reinvested when the rate increased again Nationwide did not contact 
them but she found this to be reasonable  Nationwide would not proactively contact 
account holders in such circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this assessment. They said they had made the request for the 
rate to be applied on the call on 13 October 2022 with one of Nationwides Member 
Relations Consultants and so this should have been recorded. Nationwide did not explain 
why this was not possible, rather it just dismissed the request. They added that this call was 
within 30 days of their maturity date and Nationwides actions also contradict its Savings 
Promise.
Our investigator did not change her view. She said that the cooling off period is 14 days, not 
30, and Mr Cs request for the new 4% rate was made on 14 (this was later corrected to 13) 
October 2022 which was outside their cooling off period as they had reinvested on 23 
September 2022. She disagreed that Nationwides decision conflicted with its Savings 
Promise.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with this position. They said the higher rate was introduced 
on 5 October 2022  so within the cooling off period  but this was concealed by Nationwide. 
Also, Mr C said he had told Nationwide he was not inclined to reinvest immediately as rates 
were increasing and this should be considered as evidence. He felt the investigation showed 
extreme bias. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will explain why, but first I
want to respond to their comment that the investigation has shown extreme bias. We are an
independent and impartial organisation and we do not act on behalf of banks or consumers -
it is not in our interest to find in favour of one party over the other.
I have thought carefully about all of Mr and Mrs Cs comments. In keeping with our role as 
an informal dispute resolution service  and as our rules allow  I will focus here on the 
issues I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint.
I can see that Mr and Mrs C reinvested their ISAs on 23 September 2022 with a one-year 
fixed rate of 3.25%. On 13 October 2022 they then asked Nationwide for the higher rate of 
4% that had been released on 5 October 2022. As this fell outside the 14-day cooling off 
period for their reinvestment Nationwide said this could not be done. Mr and Mrs C argued 
that they should be eligible as the rate came into force during their cooling off period. But I 
dont agree that Nationwide was obliged to proactively contact them to tell them this rate was 
available. It does not do this for any account holders so I cant find it has treated Mr and   
Mrs C unfairly.
And I dont think there is any evidence Nationwide was concealing rates, indeed I think there 
is evidence to the contrary. I say this as when Mr and Mrs C called on 23 September 2022 
they received the rate of 3.25% when the lower rate of 2.75% was live when their maturity 
pack was sent. This also demonstrates Nationwide adhered to the section of its Savings 
Promise that Mr C highlighted  it changed the rate to give them the higher rate that was 
available on 23 September 2022. I disagree that this promise can be fairly interpreted to 
mean that if the rate changes within the 14 days after account holders have completed their 
reinvestment that Nationwide need proactively inform them.
Mr C argues the fact he told Nationwide he didnt want to rush to reinvest should be 
considered, but equally it could be argued that as he was aware rates were rising it might 
reasonably be expected he would have wanted to call to check he had the most favourable 
rate before the cooling off period ended. As Nationwide advised Mr C the updated rate was 
published online in the maturity options section, specifically for existing customers. In the 
round, I dont Mr C telling Nationwide he wanted to wait is evidence of a failing on 
Nationwides part.
I find Nationwides apology for the long call wait times to be reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy that Nationwide did not fully respond to their complaint in 
its final response letter and rather dismissed his key point, but this is not something I can 
look at. There is a difference between a complaint about a financial service and a complaint 
about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former. Mr and Mrs Cs 
concerns about how Nationwide responded to his complaint is not a complaint about its 
provision of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint handling. 
And under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.  My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman