DRN-3864935
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited (who Ill call BMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I dont think BMF need to take any action here. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
It's Mr Ks assertion that BMF supplied him with a faulty car, but BMF say Mr K caused the 
problem as hed overfilled the oil and had left the filler cap off.
Im persuaded here that theres evidence the car wasnt looked after as it should have been. 
I think the fault that resulted in the car needing to be recovered was most likely caused by 
the car being overfilled with oil and the oil cap either being left off or having been left loose.
Im persuaded the car had too much oil in it as Mr K has explained the level was low and it 
needed topping up twice. The report from the garage the car was taken to says that there 
was oil everywhere under the bonnet and also notes the absence of the filler cap. Despite 
that the garage also noticed the oil level seemed high. If the oil level was high despite what 
appears to be a significant evacuation of oil through the filler cap, it would suggest it was 
even higher before the outage. 
Im also persuaded its likely the oil filler cap had been left off, or loose. I say that because I 
think its more likely that oil would escape from gaskets than by forcing off the filler cap if it 
had been secure. If the cap had been faulty, or left loose, when the car was supplied, I think 
oil would have been likely to have breached the cap when Mr K drove the car home from the 
dealership in March 2022. Mr K admits it was necessary for him to fill the oil up on a couple 
of occasions, so there was opportunity for the cap not to be replaced, or to have been 
replaced incorrectly, in the time he had the car. Taking all the evidence into account I think 
that was the most likely scenario.
I think its reasonable to suggest that a problem of the type experienced may result in 
inadequate lubrication of engine parts. In those circumstances I dont consider the evidence 
of misfiring to be evidence the car was faulty when supplied. And, even if I did, Mr K reported 
that an Engine Management Light (EML) had illuminated during his trip home, after hed 
collected the car. The dealership advised he should get a diagnostic done but Mr K 
continued to use the car as he said the EML subsequently extinguished. He didnt 
commission any investigation into the low oil warnings he said he had received either. I think 
its therefore likely that Mr K would have contributed to any fault that the EML would have 
been highlighting and I dont think, on that basis, it would be fair to hold BMF responsible.
Ive reviewed the invoices supplied for work on the car prior to Mr K taking receipt of it. They 
demonstrate the presence of an oil leak until December 2021. But I think its fair to consider 
that leak resolved thereafter as theres no mention of the leak in the subsequent MOT 
completed after the car had received attention. 
Ultimately, whilst I can understand Mr Ks significant disappointment when experiencing a 
fault so early in his ownership, Im afraid I dont think I have sufficient evidence that the 
issues he experienced were because the car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. Im 
not therefore asking BMF to take any further action.
I can see that Mr K is also unhappy about BMFs subsequent repossession of the car. Our 
investigator has explained that he will need to refer that complaint to BMF first but if he 
remains dissatisfied he can escalate his complaint on that issue to this service. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman