DRN-3699521
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank (NatWest) has 
refused to refund him the amount he lost as the result of two scams.
Mr W is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr W 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, in July 2021 Mr W was looking to make an investment to help improve his plans 
at retirement. He searched online and found a business called Golden Gate (GG). The 
website looked professional and there was an endorsement from a popular television show 
that made it seem legitimate. Mr W completed a contact form and paid an initial £249.00 via 
his credit card to open an account. Soon after he received a call from GG.
GG was very convincing and asked Mr W to setup an account with the legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase (CB). GG also asked Mr W to download the screen 
sharing application AnyDesk. Which he also did.
GG helped Mr W with the process of setting up his account and transferring funds to it via 
CB. He made the following payments to CB via faster payment that were forwarded to GG:
1. 15 July 2021 - £5.00
2. 15 July 2021 - £3,995.00
3. 27 July 2021 - £4,000.00
Mr W was able to see his investment grow and was happy. However, Mr Ws investment 
started to reduce, and GG asked Mr W for more funds to help improve the investment. Mr W 
agreed to send more money to GG but after more requests for money were received, he 
refused, and GG stopped communicating with him. 
It was clear at this stage that Mr W had fallen victim to a scam, and he was unable to 
recover any of the funds he sent to GG.
On 25 October 2021 Mr W received a call from an individual (X) claiming to be from the 
legitimate business Blockchain. X explained that Mr Ws name had been used to fraudulently 
purchase Bitcoin and that he could help Mr W recover the funds he had lost. 
X asked Mr W to download the screen sharing app AnyDesk and as part of the refund 
process convinced him to transfer funds to it via the legitimate cryptocurrency exchanges CB 
and Payward.
Mr W made the following payments to CB and Payward via faster payment that were then 
forwarded to X:
1. 25 October 2021 - £50.00 - CB
2. 1 November 2021 - £100.00 - CB
3. 1 November 2021 - £200.00 - Payward
4. 1 November 2021 - £1,300.00 - CB
5. 1 November 2021 - £1,200.00 - CB
6. 5 November 2021 - £4,000.00 - CB
X continued to ask Mr W for more money before he could make a withdrawal, and Mr W 
realised he had fallen victim to a second scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought NatWest had acted fairly deciding 
not to refund the payments Mr W had made in relation to the scams. Mr W didnt agree so 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr W and NatWest set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether NatWest 
should refund any of the money Mr W has lost because of this scam.
NatWest was unable to request a chargeback for the initial payment Mr W made via his 
credit card for £249.00 this was because the time allowed to process a chargeback had 
lapsed by the time Mr W raised his complaint.
Mr W has accepted he authorised the payments he made in relation to the scams, so the 
starting point here is that Mr W is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether NatWest should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
to prevent the payments Mr W was making.
The initial transfer Mr W made to CB was for £5.00 on 15 July 2021. It was for a low amount 
to a legitimate business. Considering the value of the transfer I dont think it was 
unreasonable that NatWests fraud prevention methods were not triggered, or that NatWest 
did not step in to stop the payment.
The second payment made on 15 July 2021 for the larger amount of £3,995.00 was stopped 
by NatWest and a call took place.
I have listened to a copy of the call.
The NatWest representative explained that the payment had been stopped as other people 
making similar payments had been the victim of scams. She goes on to say that if Mr W still 
wanted to make the payment and was to lose the funds its unlikely they would be recovered.
The representative asks to have an honest and open conversation. The representative asks 
how Mr W found the digital wallet and he said he had sourced it himself. She asks if the 
wallet was sent via a link or anything. Mr W said he was advised by a friend that had been 
using it that it was safe.
Mr W confirmed he had not downloaded a remote access device despite downloading AnyDesk, and the NatWest representative assumed that as Mr W said he was using a work 
computer that this could be why the software was on his computer. Considering this type of 
application is often used for remote access when people are home working, and Mr W 
incorrectly advised NatWest he hadnt downloaded any remote access devices I think this 
was a fair assumption. 
Mr W said he accessed his account online using his login details. The representative 
advised Mr W that they are seeing dummy pages setup via a similar method. 
Mr W didnt mention at any time during this call that he was being advised by a third-party to 
make the payment, or that he was investing with a business he had found online and was 
using CB to send the funds. He also confirmed that the information he received about 
sending the payment had come directly from CB.
Despite the warnings given by NatWest about potential scams Mr W still wanted to proceed 
with the payment and authorised it to leave his account.
Having listened to this call I dont believe Mr W was open and honest with NatWest and if he 
had given full details of the payment, it would be more likely the scam would not have gone 
ahead. The answers Mr W gave to NatWest would not have raised the representatives 
concerns. So, I dont think NatWest was able to step in and prevent this payment being 
processed.
The remaining payments Mr W made to CB between 27 July 2021 and 5 November 2021 
were for relatively low amounts. And separated out by a significant period of time. I dont 
think the amounts Mr W was sending would likely have triggered NatWests fraud prevention 
systems and as Mr W had previously made payments to CB (a legitimate business) I dont 
think the payments in general would have trigged NatWests fraud prevention systems 
either.
There was one payment to a different payee called Payward, on 1 November 2021 for £200. 
While this was the first time Mr W had made a payment to this business the payment itself 
was for a relatively low value and I dont think it would be reasonable for me to suggest 
NatWests fraud prevention systems should be triggered every time one of its customers 
attempts to make a payment to a business, they havent previously paid.
Overall, I think NatWests fraud prevention methods were triggered at a reasonable time and 
the information provided by Mr W didnt accurately reflect the circumstances of the payment. 
I dont think NatWest missed any opportunity to stop the scams from taking place. So, I dont 
think its responsible for any of Mr Ws loss, or that it should refund any of the payments he 
made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman