DRN-3138187
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that the United States Dollars (USD) account 
provided by Starling Bank Limited didnt include a facility to send international payments. It 
also complains that Starling hadnt made this clear in their marketing of the account. 
Rs director, Mr S, brings this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
R was an existing customer of Starling. Mr S managed Rs finances using their mobile 
application (app), which offered him the option to open additional accounts. Mr S applied for 
a USD account through the app and transferred funds into it. 
Mr S attempted to make a payment from the USD account to a supplier in the far east. But 
he found that there wasnt an option to make international payments in USD. He says he 
was left with no option but to transfer funds back from USD to pounds sterling (GBP).
Mr S complained to Starling that comparable banks have this function - and that the 
marketing of their USD account had been misleading. He asked them to refund fees of 
£336.07 that had been incurred as a result of transferring Rs funds from GBP to USD. 
Starling apologised for any inconvenience or distress Mr S may have been caused, but they 
didnt uphold his complaint. They said the features of the account arent provided during the 
application stage, but that this information could be found in the help section of the app or on 
their website. 
Our investigator was satisfied that Starling clearly set out information about the limitations of 
this account on their website. She felt that, although the app didnt describe all the account 
features, she noted that it said Mr S would get an account number and an ACH routing 
number to make fast and easy USD payments. She also reviewed Starlings in-app 
information about making USD payments. She was satisfied that this made it clear that 
payments could only be sent to a recipient with a US account number and an ACH routing 
number. She said shed expect Mr S to have made further enquiries if he was unsure if this 
was suitable, either by looking at the website or calling Starling. 
Mr S disagreed. He said Starlings website made it clear that international payments arent 
possible from their USD account no less than three times. But that, as an existing customer, 
hed found out about the USD account from the app. He thought that, as an app-based 
service provider, Starling should provide equally comprehensive information on their app and 
website. He said the account was not marketed in the same way in the app as it was on 
Starlings website and the detail wasnt as easily accessible. He felt this had caused him to 
lose money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Starling must follow. This includes a requirement to consider what information their 
customers need, and communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive 
considered Mr Ss complaint with this in mind.
Mr S says he couldnt have known that international payments wouldnt be possible from 
Starlings USD account, because the features werent made available on the app during the 
application stage. He says USD is the most commonly used currency for businesses trading 
internationally - and that all the other banks hes researched offer this facility. He feels the 
lack of such a key feature should have been made clear to him when he applied for the 
account.
 
I appreciate that Mr S assumed that this feature would be available, and I can understand 
his frustration on discovering this wasnt the case. But businesses are entitled to choose 
what account features theyre prepared to offer - the fact that other banks may offer this 
feature doesnt mean Starling have to do the same. Its for the customer to check an account 
meets their needs before applying.
 
Ive reviewed whether Starling provided clear information about the features of their USD 
account. Mr S has provided screenshots showing what users see when applying for this 
using the app. This said:
Yes, its a real bank account! You will get an account number and an ACH routing 
number to make fast and easy USD payments.
I wouldnt necessarily expect customers to understand the different payment systems used 
in different countries, and I appreciate that they may not be aware of what an ACH routing 
number is. So, Ive reviewed screenshots of the in-app help section, to see whether further 
information is provided about this. The section called US Dollar Accounts includes the 
following question and answer:
Where can I send USD payments to using my business USD account?
USD payments via your business USD account can only be sent to a recipient with a 
US account number and an ACH routing number.
I find this to make it clear that the account cant be used to send USD payments anywhere 
in the world. So, Im satisfied that there was sufficient information on the app to enable Mr 
S to check whether the account was suitable for his business before he applied. I dont 
consider the marketing of the account to have been misleading.
 
Mr S feels that hes lost money because the information on the app wasnt the same, or as 
easily accessible, as the explanation given on the website. He says that, as an app-based 
service provider, Starling should provide equally comprehensive information on both their 
app and website. Ive given careful thought to the point hes made.
 
Ive looked at the information that was available on the website. In a section headed 
some things to note, it says:
The bank account of the remitting/receiving account will need an ACH routing 
number and a US account number. You wont be able to send or receive wire transfer payments, SWIFT payments or international payments with the business 
USD account
I agree that this explanation goes into more detail than the information Ive seen in the 
app. But I do think the nature of an app - which is designed to display information on small 
mobile devices - means there will inevitably be differences in the way things can be 
presented. Businesses are entitled to make decisions about the format in which they 
provide information to their customers, provided its clear and not misleading. 
Starling consider their website to be the main source of information for the products and 
services they provide. Theyve said that, before Mr S opened the account, he had an 
opportunity to compare the features of their USD account alongside other foreign currency 
accounts, or to contact their customer services team. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
I havent seen anything I consider to be unclear or misleading in the way this account was 
marketed. So, although I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed with this decision, Im 
unable to say Starling have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman