DRN-1715518
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt provided the service it shouldve 
done for fees that she has paid to it.
What happened
Mrs M first invested into a Stocks and Shares ISA with Nationwide in 2005 and subsequently 
also invested in a Unit Trust and this was used periodically to make further payments into 
her ISA account. She paid an ongoing fee (trail commission) of 0.5% to Nationwide for her 
investments.
In 2015 she saw a Financial Planning Manager (FPM) and was advised to invest £150,000 
into a Select Portfolio investment bond to be held in a Discretionary Trust so that the money 
invested fell outside of her estate for IHT purposes. She paid an agreed ongoing service 
charge (OSC) of 0.5% of the value of the investment.
She changed her ISA and Unit Trust investments from payment of trail commission to an 
OSC of 0.5% in May 2019. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it made the following points:
Mrs Ms FPM undertook a comprehensive review of her needs in 2015 and has 
spoken to her several times since then.
Mrs M was made aware of the need to review her portfolio and had the opportunity of 
doing so but declined to do so.
Based on the evidence available it doesnt agree that Mrs M hadnt heard anything 
from it since taking out her investments as she has suggested.
The FPM was unable to see Mrs M as soon as she wanted in 2019 because his diary 
was booked up some time in advance. But he was willing to meet with her and 
reasonable efforts were also made to provide access to an alternative manager. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Nationwide had provided annual reports in 2016,2017 and 2018 which kept Mrs M 
updated on her investments and invited her to contact it if she wanted to discuss her 
investment options further and conduct a financial review.
The investigator said that Mrs M said that the FPM had refused to discuss her investments 
when he met with her at home, but the FPM said such discussions had taken place. He said 
he couldnt say that it was more likely than not the FPM hadnt been willing to discuss her 
investments based on the evidence available.
The investigator said that the fact the FPM hadnt been able to meet Mrs M for a meeting in 
the first part of 2019 as soon as she wanted didnt amount to a failure of service. He said 
Nationwide had explained that waiting times for appointments were around six weeks at the 
time and Mrs M had been offered alternatives and had 
met with a different FPM.
The investigator said that the evidence showed that Nationwide had kept Mr M updated in 
line with its terms and conditions. 
Mrs M responded to the investigators opinion. In summary she said the following:
She has been paying charges to Nationwide since she first invested in 2005.
Her main grievance is that her Unit Trust and ISA investments havent had any 
activity since the last transfer in January 2016 from the Unit Trust to the ISA.
Due to the FPM the funds havent been reviewed because he told her she wasnt 
paying for financial advice.
As for the trust (investment bond) this has never been reviewed. She was on a new 
payments system for charges but still didnt get any review as the FPM said the funds 
didnt need a review and that she would get yearly updates.
When the adviser made home visits, he only reviewed her daughters finances as he 
said she wasnt paying anything for financial advice.
She wants Nationwide to provide; evidence of the dates and times the FPM visited 
her home; itemised reports showing what has been reviewed; what difference the 
FPM has made to her portfolio; itemised percentage of ongoing fund managers 
management charges on a monthly basis to date.
One of our investigators responded to Mrs Ms request for Nationwide to provide further 
information having gone back to it and informed her that the FPM had not kept the dates he 
met with her at home. 
The investigator also explained that payment of the ongoing fee wasnt just for access to an 
FPM, but also for the annual reports on her portfolio. He said he didnt think it was 
reasonable to expect Nationwide to set out how the FPM had benefitted her portfolio as this 
was too subjective and the investigator explained that if she wanted details of the fund 
managers charges, she should contact them directly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful if I briefly set out the difference between the trail commission Mrs 
M was paying for the ISA and Unit Trust investments and the OSC she agreed to pay for the 
bond investment in 2015.
Before the regulator published its Retail Distribution Review (RDR) in 2012 clients would pay 
an annual fee known as trail commission to advisers over the lifetime of the product. This 
was usually included in the annual management charge the client paid so it wasnt clear 
what advisers were receiving. It was often paid without any ongoing service being provided.
The outcome of the RDR was that trail commission could no longer be charged as from 31 
December 2012 for any new investment, but it was still payable for existing investments. Any 
fees for new investments needed to be discussed and agreed with the adviser, which is what 
happened with the advice to invest in the investment bond when Mrs M agreed to pay the 
OSC of 0.5%.
The agreement to pay the OSC for the investment bond entitled Mrs M to; a review of her 
investment and an Annual Customer Report (ACR) for that investment; access to an online 
portal that allowed her to view her investment and buy, top-up or switch funds; access to an FPM at her request. This was set out in the suitability letter sent to Mrs M in 2015 advising 
her to invest in the investment bond.
This service wasnt something that Mrs M was entitled to through payment of the trail 
commission for the ISA and Unit Trust investments - although Nationwide has told me that 
the online portal was made available for those paying trail commission.
Despite this the ACRs I have seen for 2016, 2017 and 2019 provided information on all the 
investments Mrs M held with Nationwide, not just the investment bond. So, arguably Mrs M 
was provided with more information about her overall investments than she was entitled to.
Mrs M has complained that nothing happened regarding her ISA or Unit Trust investments 
after 2016. But the trail commission she was paying didnt entitle her to an ongoing service. 
Nationwide has explained that the ISA and Unit Trust investments were self-directed  in 
other words Mrs M made decisions about what she wanted to do on those investments 
herself.
The notes from the fact find completed by the adviser in 2014, when he met with both Mrs M 
and her husband about protecting their estate from IHT, records the following:
Mrs M, you said your knowledge and experience comes from your existing portfolio. You 
also monitored it very comprehensively by maintaining your own spreadsheets which details 
all the transactions and valuations for each fund along with gain/loss. You take an avid 
interest in how the stock market performs and assessing investment options. You have an 
understanding how unit trusts work and their inherent risks from having held and checked on 
them.
Nationwide has also provided some evidence of Mrs M making her own decisions on her ISA 
and Unit Trust investments. In the circumstances I think it is more likely than not that Mrs M 
did keep an eye on her investments and knew what was happening with them and made her 
own decisions about what she wanted to do.
The payment of the OSC also didnt entitle Mrs M to a proactive service from Nationwide for 
the investment bond either. It was for Mrs M to contact Nationwide if she wanted advice 
about this. If she didnt do so then Nationwide cant be held responsible for it not taking any 
action.
I think the limit of the service was made clear to Mrs M at various times. As an example, the 
covering letter for the March 2016 annual customer report stated:
I wont contact you proactively but if your circumstances change or you feel the time is right 
for a financial review its important that you get in touch. We can then arrange a convenient 
time and place to discuss your plans.
As another example the cover letter dated February 2018 for the annual customer report 
asked Mrs M to please get in touch to discuss your level of risk and asked her to call or pop 
into the branch. The letter states:
Your level of ongoing service means I wont contact you to arrange an annual review to 
ensure your investments remain suitable for your needs. However, the Your Investment 
Portfolio Breakdown page of your ACR indicates your portfolio is no longer in line with your 
previously agreed level of risk. Its important for you to get in touch with me to arrange a 
review.In fact, all three ACRs informed Mrs M that her portfolio wasnt in accordance with her risk 
level and asked her to get in touch for a review - contrary to what she has said in response 
to the investigators opinion about being told by the FPM that she didnt need a review. 
I have seen internal emails from Nationwide from January 2018 referring to Mrs M wanting a 
review of all her accounts and difficulty in arranging a review with the FPM for when Mrs M 
wanted and that they would need to be seen by a specialist because the Investment bond 
was an IHT investment. There is reference to a telephone call from the FPM, but no review 
meeting then took place. Its not clear from the evidence why the review didnt go ahead at 
the time. 
But given Mrs M had originally asked for a review I wouldve expected her to chase this up if 
she wanted to go ahead. I have seen no evidence that she did this, so I think it is more likely 
than not she decided not to go ahead with this at the time.
I think it is very unlikely she was told that the FPM wasnt willing to meet with her to discuss 
her investments and there is no evidence to show this is what happened  I have seen no 
evidence she contacted Nationwide and was refused a meeting.
I note Mrs M has referred to the FPM refusing to discuss her investments when he attended 
at her home to discuss her daughters investments. The FPM has said he did discuss her 
investments when she wanted to in these meetings. 
I think it is important to note that these meetings werent arranged for Mrs Ms benefit to 
discuss her investments, they were for discussing her daughters investments. Despite this I 
think it is unlikely the FPM wouldve refused to discuss Mrs Ms investments at all if she 
referred to these. 
But Im mindful that as these meetings werent for Mrs M the FPM is unlikely to have gone to 
such meetings with a view to providing any formal advice to her. I think if she wanted such 
advice the FPM more likely than not told her she needed to arrange to see him which I dont 
think wouldve been unreasonable.
Mrs M has complained about the FPM not being available when she wanted a meeting in 
2019. But from what I have seen the FPM didnt refuse to see her, he simply wasnt able to 
see her when she wanted because of the amount of work he had on at the time. Mrs M was 
offered alternatives and did then meet with a different FPM who provided her with advice. 
So, I dont think Nationwide failed to provide the service Mrs M was entitled to because the 
original FPM wasnt available for some time.
Mrs M wants Nationwide to provide details of the fund managers charges. Nationwide wrote 
to Mrs M on 16 August 2019 to say that it couldnt provide the detailed breakdown of 
charges she wanted and directed her to the providers. I agree with Nationwide that if she 
wants details of these charges, she should contact the providers.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman