DRN-4262535
The complaint
A partnership, which I will refer to as L, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly closed 
its business account.
What happened
Barclays told us:
It carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Ls account. It wrote to L in 
September 2021 to ask for information, then warned Ls partners that if they didnt 
respond it would close Ls account. Ls partners still didnt respond, so it closed Ls 
account in August 2022.
It later realised that the address its KYC team had been using for L was incorrect. Ls 
partners had instructed Barclays to change Ls address in June 2020, but there was 
a system fault at that time and a Barclays staff member had only temporarily 
changed the address. That had allowed Barclays to issue a plastic card to one of the 
partners, but the address on its system later reverted to Ls old address. It now has 
the correct address on its system.
It accepted that it made a mistake in closing Ls accounts, and it offered £300 in 
compensation. It also re-opened Ls accounts, enabling Ls partners to access the 
funds they held.
Ls partners told us:
Barclays offer of £300 is nowhere near sufficient to cover the phone calls, stress, 
and time theyve had to spend putting things right. They consider it should pay at 
least £1,500.
Barclays error caused substantial administrative work. For example, they had to 
manually amend all the invoices they had sent to their clients and provide them with 
new payment details, and this took six weeks.
They were also unable to manage their business properly. Three of their clients said 
theyd paid money into the closed account (totalling around £900), but they had no 
way of checking whether that was the case  and so they were unable to chase their 
clients.
They suspect Barclays closed their account because it doesnt make enough money 
from their business.
One of our investigators looked at Ls complaint. Briefly, she said:
Barclays was wrong to close Ls account, but overall she thought its offer to pay £300 
in compensation was fair.
She didnt think Barclays error caused L to suffer a financial loss. The account 
contained less than £150 at the time, so she didnt think L would have been able to 
use that money to pay for rent, insurance and the other costs mentioned even if the 
account had remained opened.
In addition, one of the partners had another account which she was temporarily using 
for L. The partner could have used that other account to receive the partnerships 
income and cover its costs.
Barclays error caused Ls partners to suffer distress and inconvenience, but she 
thought £300 represented fair compensation for that issue.
Barclays accepted our investigators opinion, but Ls partners did not. They said that 
although they are now aware that the account contained less than £150, they didnt know 
that at the time. They didnt know that their clients hadnt paid fees, so they were unable to 
chase. Even as late as January 2023 they still hadnt had a full statement for the account, so 
they couldnt use that statement as proof the clients hadnt paid.
Ls partners have since decided to close their business and their Barclays bank account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The partners have said that they hope I will open a wider investigation into the way Barclays 
treats customers like L. I have not done that, because I have no power to carry out such an 
investigation. I am an ombudsman, not a regulator, and I only have the legal power to 
investigate complaints that have been referred to me.
Looking solely at Ls complaint, I acknowledge that Ls partners suspect Barclays decided to 
close their account because it isnt sufficiently profitable for Barclays. However, I think that is 
unlikely. Barclays, along with all other banks, is strictly regulated and is required to take 
certain actions in order to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. It is also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means, as in this 
case, that a bank chooses to carry out a KYC review.
Barclays KYC obligations apply to all of its customers, regardless of how profitable that 
customer is. I think Barclays explanation for the closure  that it made a mistake and simply 
failed to update Ls address, then acted on Ls apparent failure to respond  is much more 
likely to be what happened. 
Everyone agrees that Barclays should not have closed Ls account when it did, so the only 
issue left for me to decide is the appropriate level of compensation. 
Putting things right
Im sorry to further disappoint Ls partners, but I agree with our investigator that £300 does 
represent fair and reasonable compensation in this case.
The account was closed in August 2022 then reopened approximately four months later. The 
partners did not have access to the money in the account over the whole of that period, but 
given that the account only contained a relatively small sum I dont agree that they were 
prevented from paying their rent and other bills as a result.  It is very unfortunate that Ls clients said theyd paid money into the closed Barclays account 
when in fact they had not done so, but I dont think Barclays was the cause of any financial 
losses L may suffer in that respect. The status of Ls Barclays account does not affect 
whether Ls clients owe money to L.
Barclays has said that if the partners had asked it whether any payments had gone into their 
account, it would have told them that payments cannot go into closed accounts. I accept 
Barclays evidence on that point, and so I dont hold Barclays responsible for the partners 
not chasing their own clients.
Im also mindful that Ls partners were able to mitigate their losses by using an alternative 
bank account in the name of just one of the partners. I entirely accept that using that account 
was inconvenient, and that it meant the other partner had little visibility of Ls finances, but it 
did mean that Barclays error did not prevent L from trading.
However, its clear that Barclays actions caused Ls partners to suffer both distress and 
inconvenience. They have provided detailed submissions about the impact of Barclays error 
on their lives.
Ive carefully considered what the partners have said. In my view, the partners had to make 
a reasonable effort over several weeks in order to sort out the consequences of Barclays 
mistake. I know the partners consider that an award of £1,500 would be appropriate, but 
taking into account the awards weve made in similar cases, and applying my own 
judgement, my opinion is that an award of £300 is fair.  
I understand the partners of L may no longer have an account in Ls name. If that is the 
case, and if they do not have any other account in joint names, then they may choose to ask 
Barclays to make a single £300 payment to just one of them (rather than to L or to both of 
them in joint names). If they both ask Barclays to make the payment in just one single name, 
Barclays should honour that request.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay L £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman