DRN-4281702
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) blocked two money transfers.
What happened
Mr R had a bank account with HSBC. In mid-June 2023 Mr R logged onto his mobile app 
and tried to transfer £1,000 from his HSBC account to an external account also in his name. 
The payment was flagged for additional security checks by HSBC. Mr R initially contacted 
HSBC using its chat facility, and then phoned HSBC at its request. The security checks were 
completed, and the money was transferred on the same day. Mr R said he told HSBC that 
he intended to complete a similar transaction the following day. Mr R also complained to 
HSBC.
 
Mr R then tried to transfer £1,100 out of his HSBC account the following day. HSBC also 
flagged this payment for security checks. When it didnt hear from Mr R in relation to this 
second payment it sent him a message to let him know this second payment was stopped by 
its fraud team.  
HSBC responded to Mr Rs complaint and provided an outline of when and why its fraud 
team might be alerted, about the random security checks carried out and what might be 
likely to have triggered these. It confirmed the first payment was released on the same day it 
was made.
Mr R remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. Mr R said HSBC failed to 
act on his instructions on two occasions and lied when it said he hadnt contacted it. Mr R 
said hed told HSBC in advance that a second payment would be made by him the following 
day. Mr R asked for £250 compensation.
 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She said that although she understood the 
inconvenience caused to Mr R, HSBC carried out security checks to protect both consumers 
and itself. Our Investigator said its not for this Service to tell a bank how to operate its fraud 
prevention systems.
 
Mr R didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Rs circumstances at the time meant that it was inconvenient for him to 
have to contact HSBC so that it could complete the additional security checks on the 
amounts he was trying to transfer to another account in his name. However, HSBC are 
obliged by the regulator to have security measures in place to safeguard it and its 
consumers. The approach this Service takes is that we will rarely interfere with reasonable 
security measures put in place by businesses. 
I can see that when Mr Rs first transfer was flagged by HSBC, it sent him a message on the 
same day and asked him to contact it on the phone number provided. And once Mr R had 
contacted HSBC and provided the information requested, the payment was released without 
delay. So Im satisfied that HSBC acted quickly to deal with this matter for Mr R, once it had 
flagged the payment for additional security checks. 
Mr Rs second transfer the following day was also flagged for additional security checks, 
which Mr R said shouldnt have happened as he told HSBC the day before that he would be 
making this payment. However, a consumer forewarning a bank about a future payment 
doesnt mean that payment will be flagged as safe. It will be processed in the usual way by 
the bank and can still be flagged for additional checks by the fraud team. And this is what 
happened here. As I said, I wont interfere with these reasonable security checks put in place 
by banks. 
HSBC said it tried to contact Mr R by phone to discuss this second flagged payment but was 
unable to reach him. I can see that Mr R did contact HSBC via its chat facility, but he was 
told that this particular team were unable to help and that he should call the team 
responsible for putting the block in place. While I think it would have been helpful for HSBC 
to provide Mr R with a number for the fraud team at this stage, I can see that he had been 
provided with the contact number the previous day and so would have known who to contact 
to sort this matter out. 
Later that evening Mr R received a message from HSBC telling him that as he hadnt made 
contact about the payment, HSBC had taken the decision to cancel it. While this certainly 
caused inconvenience for Mr R, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly here and, as I said, I wont 
interfere with reasonable security measures put in place to safeguard all parties. 
I know that Mr R thinks the message sent to him on the second day was sent in error, as it 
makes reference to him not contacting HSBC when he had made contact several times the 
previous day, and several times that day using the chat facility. However I dont think this 
message was sent in error as, from what I can see, it is referring only to the second payment 
and to Mr R not contacting the fraud team in relation to the second payment, and not the 
first.
 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr R, but I am not asking HSBC to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman