DRN-2044387
The complaint
Mr P complains about issues hes experienced with a car acquired with finance from Secure 
Trust Bank Plc (STB).
What happened
In January 2019 Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with STB.
Mr P experienced issues with the car. He returned it to the supplying dealer several times 
between January  June 2019 and repairs were carried out. The supplying dealer extended 
Mr Ps warranty for an extra year free of charge and gave him vouchers as compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
In December 2019 the car broke down. It was returned to the supplying dealer and a 
temporary repair was carried out on the turbo.
Mr P complained to STB. He was unhappy with the number of times the car had been 
repaired and asked to reject it.
STB arranged an independent inspection of the car which confirmed that the turbo had been 
temporarily repaired. The engineer concluded that the fault with the turbo wouldnt have 
been present or developing at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, STB said it didnt accept responsibility 
for the fault.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Whilst Mr Ps complaint 
was being investigated, STB said it would cover the costs of repair. Mr P said the car was 
still under the manufacturers warranty so it should go to a main dealer for repairs. He also 
said he wanted compensation for the time and inconvenience caused to him.
Our investigator considered whether STB had acted fairly and decided that covering the cost 
of repairs was a reasonable resolution. The investigator said it wouldnt be fair to ask STB to 
pay compensation because the evidence showed that the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he didnt think it was reasonable that hed had to return the car for 
repair so many times and hed lost faith in the car. He said he was still having issues with the 
car involving a vibration issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because STB supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account factors such as. Amongst other things, 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such 
as that supplied to Mr P  to have a degree of wear and tear. So, in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car as 
opposed to a fault caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present or developing at the point of supply. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr P and STB disagree about whether there was a fault with the car. Theres no dispute that 
there have been some issues with the turbo which resulted in the car breaking down in 
December 2019. The turbo has now been fully repaired.
Am independent engineers report can help determine whether there is an inherent fault. In 
this case, the car was inspected in December 2019. At the time of inspection, the car had 
covered around 20,000 miles. The engineer concluded that in view of the time and mileage 
which had elapse since the point of supply, the issue with the turbo wouldnt have been 
present or developing at the point of supply.
Given the findings of the independent engineer, I dont think theres enough evidence to 
show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Regardless of the 
engineers conclusion, STB has arranged for the turbo to be repaired. Im persuaded that it 
has done more than it is required to do under the relevant legislation. In the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask STB to pay compensation to Mr P. On the balance of 
evidence, STB wasnt responsible for the fault. Mr P previously asked to reject the car. 
Again, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality or to warrant a rejection, and I dont think STB acted unfairly in 
declining the request.
Based on what Ive seen, I think STB has offered a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr P has raised some new concerns about a vibration issue, but 
this didnt form part of his initial complaint to STB and hell need to raise a new complaint 
about this so STB can investigate.
For the reasons Ive given, I wont be asking STB to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman