DRN-2928825
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont allow them to repay some of their 
mortgage using a credit card.
What happened
Mrs B says she has a current account, saving account, and mortgage with TSB. She took 
out a credit card with TSB and hoped to take advantage of the 0% promotional interest rate 
on the credit card to overpay the mortgage she has with her husband, Mr B. Mr and Mrs B 
are allowed to overpay their mortgage by 10% a year. 
When Mrs B asked TSB about this matter TSB said she couldnt use her credit card to pay 
her mortgage. Thats because a credit card is unsecured lending, so there was no guarantee 
when or how Mrs B would repay it.
Mrs B feels that by saying this TSB put her into a worse financial position than she needed 
to be in. Thats because the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was higher than the 
0% promotional rate on the credit card.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said it isnt uncommon for lenders to refuse 
this type of transaction. Thats because theyre required to make sure they lend responsibly. 
While our investigator accepted that Mrs B might benefit from using the 0% interest free rate 
in the short term, there was no guarantee about when or how Mrs B would pay off her credit 
card. So there was a risk in the long term that Mrs Bs credit card repayments would 
increase when the 0% promotional rate expired. Credit card debt is unsecured, meaning that 
the debt would be subject to a far higher interest rate than a mortgage. So the debt would be 
more expensive to repay.
Our investigator also said that as credit card debt isnt secured on property, the risk of TSB 
not being able to recover the money if Mrs B didnt repay the credit card debt would be 
greater than the risk of it of recovering a mortgage. So he understood why TSB werent 
prepared to let Mrs B use her credit card to make a payment to her mortgage. He didnt 
recommend that this complaint was upheld.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
she was a long-standing customer of TSB that had was a good credit risk - especially as 
there was enough money in her TSB current account to repay the mortgage in full. She said 
she could see that as part of their mortgage servicing and recovery toolkit TSB allowed 
customers in, or about to be in, financial difficulty to repay their mortgage using a credit card 
as a short-term option. Our investigator didnt think that was relevant in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mrs B thought there should be no problem using her TSB credit card 
to overpay part of her mortgage. She has told us shes a long-standing TSB customer that 
had a number of accounts with TSB. So TSB were in the position to understand her financial 
position. She had recently got the credit card, and it had a £12,000 credit limit. In addition to 
this she has told us the mortgage repayments were paid from her current account, and there 
was enough money in that account to repay her mortgage in full. So she feels that TSB 
should have taken a risk-based decision about whether to let her use her credit card in that 
way.
However, I can also understand why TSB said it was unwilling to allow her to transfer part of 
her mortgage debt onto the credit card. As our investigator said, Mrs and Mrs Bs mortgage 
was secured on their property, but Mrs Bs credit card debt wasnt secured on property. TSB 
couldnt be sure when or how Mrs B would pay off her credit card. But TSB could predict 
when and how Mrs B will pay off her mortgage. TSB had already checked (when Mr and Mrs 
B had applied for the mortgage) that Mr and Mrs B could afford the mortgage and the 
repayment schedule was sustainable. 
 
TSB wouldve been aware that if Mrs B wasnt able to pay off her credit card in the 0% 
promotional period, she would have to pay interest on the debt at a much higher interest rate 
than the interest rate on her mortgage. The relevant credit card statements say that the 
interest rate on Mrs Bs credit card once the promotional period had ended was 19.95% 
variable. That would be applicable on top of the 2.95% transfer fee Mrs B would need to pay 
to transfer some of her mortgage debt on to the credit card in the first place. Finally TSB 
would have been mindful that in the event that Mrs B was unable to repay her credit card, it 
would be harder for it to recover that debt than a mortgage debt, given that credit card debt 
is unsecured.
So Im not persuaded that TSB have acted unfairly here. TSB were entitled to take the 
commercial decision to refuse to allow Mrs B to use her credit card to overpay her mortgage.  
I think TSB considered the risks of such a transaction when it refused it. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to interfere with that decision. 
For completeness Ive also considered Mrs Bs point that there are circumstances (set out in 
TSBs mortgage servicing and recovery toolkit) in which TSB would allow customers to repay 
their mortgage using a credit card as a short-term option. It isnt for me to comment on TSBs 
toolkit. However, it seems clear from the facts of this case that Mr and Mrs B werent in, or 
about to be in, financial difficulty. Mrs B has been clear that there was plenty of money in her 
current account  the account the mortgage was paid from. Instead she wanted to take 
advantage of the 0% promotional interest rate on her credit card. In the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded that it follows that TSB should be required to allow her to transfer part of her 
mortgage debt onto her credit card.
 
Taking the matter as a whole, I dont think TSB made a mistake when they refused to allow 
Mrs B to use her credit card to overpay her mortgage. So why I appreciate that Mrs B is 
likely to be disappointed by my final decision, Im afraid I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman