DRN-4301569
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) valued his car 
following a claim he made on his car insurance policy following the theft of his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr W has comprehensive motor insurance with Admiral. 
Mr W purchased a new car in March 2023 and updated his policy with Admiral to reflect the 
new vehicle. The purchase price of the car was £31,500 so he insured his vehicle for 
£32,000. 
Unfortunately a few days later Mr Ws house was broken into and the keys for the car were 
taken. This resulted in his car being stolen. Mr W says he notified the police immediately and 
reported the theft to Admiral. 
Admiral requested the log book, hire documents, settlement agreement, and the spare key 
which he provided as soon as he was in possession of them. 
Mr W says he called Admiral continuously to get updates on his claim. At the beginning of 
April he was offered £28,235 for the car. Mr W was unhappy with the valuation since he had 
purchased the car for £31,500 in the days before the theft, and he had insured it for £32,000.
Mr W says he should be left in the position he was in prior to the incident and so wants 
Admiral to review the settlement offer. Mr W says he was told the settlement offer was based 
on two industry guides but given he only purchased the vehicle recently he thinks a more 
reasonable indicator is the purchase price. 
Mr W says the situation has caused him a lot of stress and he remains unhappy with the 
settlement offer. So he complained to Admiral.  
Admiral said the market value doesnt mean the price paid for the car or its perceived value. 
Admiral explained it used two industry recognised guides to assist in valuing second-hand 
cars. It said the top book valuation across the two guides was £28,235 and so it was 
satisfied it had correctly valued Mr Ws car. 
Mr W remained dissatisfied and so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things for him. She said Admirals policy is to pay market value if an 
insured car is stolen. And she was satisfied the settlement offer was reasonable when 
considering the online trade guides and advertised prices of similar cars. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said it was impossible to purchase a similar car for less than £29,000 
at the time of the incident. So the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of the policy Admiral must pay the market value of the car at the time 
of loss less the excess. 
Valuation of the vehicle 
Mr Ws policy says, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.. The policy 
defines market value as, The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage, and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
I need to consider whether Admiral used the right market value for Mr Ws car under the 
terms of the policy. Valuing cars by using motor trade guides is standard practice in the 
industry. So our approach in these types of cases is to check the relevant trade guides and 
consider whether the insurer has made an offer thats in line with them. The guides are 
based on transaction data  actual selling prices  so give a more realistic indication of a 
cars valuation than adverts, which dont account for any negotiations that take place over 
the sale price. 
Admiral says the purpose of the policy is to indemnify the customer following an insured 
loss, but the market value doesnt necessarily mean the price paid for the car. It does this by 
using the guides referred to above. Admiral reviewed its initial valuation and maintained its 
original offer was reasonable. Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied this figure fairly 
reflects the price Mr W would have had to pay for a comparable car at the time his was 
stolen. 
Mr W complains that Admirals offer is lower than the prices he was able to find online and 
that he hasnt seen a comparable car or the price of the settlement value. Mr W provided a 
number of cars similar to his own which showed a variance in price. But the variance in price 
demonstrates that valuing a car isnt an exact science. And having looked at the adverts 
provided, while they do give an idea of the selling price of cars with similar specifications to 
Mr Ws, they dont give details of the actual sold price of the car. The selling price has an 
element included to allow for negotiation. 
As mentioned above the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling 
prices. So while individual cars may be advertised at a higher or lower price, the guides give 
an average value of a car with its specific characteristics. Its for that reason I think the 
valuation of £28,235 is reasonable. 
Mr W paid £31,500 for his car and says he did a lot of research before he made the 
purchase. I dont doubt that he did. But some people pay more than the retail price 
suggested by the guides for their car and some people pay less. This means what Mr W paid 
for his car isnt necessarily the market value at the time he bought it, or what hes entitled to 
under the terms of the policy if the car is stolen a short time after this, as is the case here. 
I can see our investigator carried out her own checks on the valuation of the vehicle and 
these showed similar values to those found by Admiral. Its for that reason I think the 
valuation used by Admiral is reasonable. 
Taking all this into account I cant say Admiral has acted unreasonably. The terms and 
conditions of the policy set out how it will settle a claim. The guides it used refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle 
would be. This takes into account the specifications of the vehicle as well as the mileage. 
The valuation report shows it has factored in material details relating to Mr Ws car. And in 
line with the terms and conditions Admiral has considered the market value at the time of the 
loss. On this basis I cant say Admiral has acted unfairly or unreasonably in arriving at its 
valuation. 
I appreciate Mr Ws concern with the amount he was offered, and he feels it falls short of 
allowing him to buy a like for like car in a similar condition. And I understand this situation is 
more frustrating considering it arises out of an incident which isnt Mr Ws fault. However I 
cant say the offer Admiral made is unreasonable and so Im not directing it to pay anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman