DRN-4236023
The complaint
Mrs L complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk lent her an instalment loan 
when it shouldnt have. 
What happened
Savvy lent Mrs L one instalment loan in January 2022, the loan was for £500 repayable in 
six monthly instalments of £166.66. Mrs L was unable to keep up with her repayments and 
the loan has been sold to a third-party debt purchaser.
When Mrs L complained to Savvy, it didnt uphold her complaint and so she referred it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt 
think Savvy had done anything wrong.
Mrs L disagreed, she says she was struggling with debt at the time of the loan and her credit 
file revealed concerns which meant Savvy shouldnt have lent to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs L could 
repay the loan over the term without suffering adverse financial consequences including the 
need to borrow further. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
Savvy has said Mrs L applied for the loan online and in her application, she stated her 
monthly income was £1,750 and her monthly expenses were £918.40 this included housing 
costs and credit commitments. 
Savvy searched Mrs Ls credit file and from the results of the search which it completed on 8 
January 2022 and has provided a copy to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mrs L had one 
active unsecured loan with a regular payment of £51, this loan account was up to date. 
Mrs L also had two credit card accounts, both of which were within their limit and showed her 
payments were up to date. I can also see Mrs L had a mail order account which she was 
slightly over her limit on, but the payment status didnt show any concerns.
Before releasing the loan, Savvy called Mrs L to discuss her application and she confirmed 
her income and credit commitments were what she stated on the application. Mrs Ls third-
party representative has listed a number of late payments Mrs L incurred but having looked 
at those, majority of them were after Savvy lent to Mrs L, so I wont expect Savvy to have 
taken them into account as they werent part of her financial history at the time.
Also, Im mindful that the results of the credit search Savvy carried out at the time, didnt 
show the late payments Mrs Ls representatives referred to. The results of the search 
showed Mrs L had small credit commitments which made the figure she declared 
reasonable. Also, when Savvy spoke to Mrs L, she confirmed her declared income and 
credit payments were accurate.
Overall, there was nothing Savvy saw or knew about Mrs L that should reasonably have 
concerned it or made it carry out further checks. I think its checks were sufficient in the 
circumstances of this case and those checks showed Mrs Ls income and expenses left her 
with sufficient income to meet the loan repayments and still have disposable income left 
over.
Savvy wasnt wrong to lend in these circumstances and so I wont be asking it to take any 
steps to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman