DRN-3785437
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has not treated him fairly over a 
dispute relating to a payment made on his credit card for an airline ticket.
What happened
As all parties to the complaint are well-aware of the background, I will deal with events 
leading up to the complaint only briefly. In summary:
Mr W paid £74.62 on his Halifax credit card in November 2021 for a return flight to 
Tenerife with an airline Ill call Z. Prior to travel, Spain changed its entry 
requirements meaning some members of Mr Ws party could not enter the country. 
The trip couldnt realistically go ahead, and so Mr W didnt fly. 
Mr W considered he was at least due a refund of £13 Air Passenger Duty (APD) 
which he said formed a part of the price of his ticket. He was unsuccessful in 
reclaiming this from Z so he approached Halifax instead.
Halifax attempted what is known as a chargeback to reclaim the £13. It refunded 
the £13 on a temporary basis while this process was ongoing. Z contested the 
chargeback, maintaining that Mr W was not due a refund. 
Halifax decided not to pursue the matter further and reversed the £13 refund it had 
given Mr W. Mr W complained about Halifaxs decision but it stood by it, and the 
complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
assessment.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Having read Zs terms and 
conditions, he noted these said all fees and taxes were non-refundable. He didnt 
think Halifax had treated Mr W unfairly by deciding not to pursue the chargeback 
further. Hed have needed to have been owed a refund for a chargeback to be 
successful, but the terms indicated that he was not. Our investigator also thought 
about whether Halifax should have honoured a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), but concluded it should not, as there had been 
no breach of contract by Z. 
Mr W appealed our investigators assessment of his case. He said the airlines terms and 
conditions couldnt or shouldnt override HMRC rules or the laws of the land. He was also 
sceptical that Halifax had put much time or effort into trying to get the money back, given the 
small amount involved. Our investigator disagreed, stating that he thought Halifax had 
treated Mr W fairly and had done all they could. He wouldnt expect them to pursue the 
chargeback further unless there was a reasonable prospect of it succeeding, and due to Zs 
terms and conditions he couldnt see how it would have been successful. He said Mr Ws 
point about the law was a legal question for a court  he was looking at what Halifax could 
have done to help under the chargeback scheme or potential section 75 claim.
Ultimately no agreement could be reached, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person buys goods or services using a credit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with their purchase. However, a bank may 
be able to help their customer through the dispute resolution system administered by the 
card scheme whose logo appears on the card. Disputes raised via this system are 
commonly referred to as chargebacks. The bank may also be able to assist their customer 
by honouring a claim under section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 doesnt apply in Mr Ws case 
as it only provides protection for purchases over £100, so I have focused in this decision on 
the way Halifax dealt with the chargeback.
Chargebacks are not a way of determining someones legal rights to a refund from a 
merchant in relation to a purchase, they are a way of settling disputes according to the rules 
set by the card schemes. Where neither side to a chargeback is willing to concede, the card 
scheme itself can be asked to rule on a dispute via a process known as arbitration.
I would normally expect a bank to attempt a chargeback on behalf of a customer looking to 
bring a dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding 
and attempting one would be compliant with the scheme rules. Chargebacks can be 
contested by the other side to the dispute. If that happens, I would not expect a bank to 
accept an obviously invalid defence to the chargeback. And I would expect it to pursue the 
chargeback further if appropriate.
In this case Halifax did attempt a chargeback for the £13 on the grounds Mr W had been 
owed a refund following his being unable to fly, but Z contested it. Ive read the guidance 
issued by the card scheme (Mastercard) on bookings which needed to be cancelled due to 
COVID-related restrictions. It says:
Question: A cardholder is unable to use available services because of travel restrictions on 
the cardholder. For example, a cardholder may not be permitted to board an operating flight 
due to their nationality of medical symptoms, or the cardholder cannot reach a hotel stay due 
to border closures. Does an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: No. The issuer does not have chargeback rights if a cardholder cannot use or 
access services made available by a merchant, as the merchant has fulfilled its 
obligations.There may be a chargeback right if a refund is due per the terms and 
conditions properly disclosed to the cardholder at the time of purchase and the refund has 
not been processed. For example, when the cardholder cancelled a refundable reservation 
in accordance with the cancellation policy. 1
While this doesnt cover Mr Ws scenario exactly, I think it falls into the same category. When 
contesting the chargeback, Z argued the following:
Mr W had been a no show for the flight in question.
Mr W had agreed to the general conditions of carriage during the booking process, 
and the Seat Protection Fee, which was £73.00 per person per flight (i.e. each way)
1 https://www.mastercard.com/content/dam/mccom/global/covid-19/covid19-drm-faq-public-version-
05.01.2020.pdf While Mr W was entitled to a refund, on request, of his total fare including taxes in 
the event of a no show, this would be minus the Seat Protection Fee, which was 
more than his total fare. So he wasnt entitled to any refund.
Z also provided extracts from its general conditions of carriage and information from its 
booking and reservation systems as evidence to support its case.
Having considered Zs submissions carefully, I cannot see how a chargeback could have 
been successfully pursued any further by Halifax in the circumstances. There would need to 
be evidence that, under the agreed terms and conditions, Mr W was due a refund. 
Unfortunately, the terms and conditions showed that although Mr W was technically due a 
refund, it was outweighed by the fee which was attached to him being a no show. So in 
reality, no net refund was due. 
Bearing this in mind, along with the card schemes guidance, it follows that I have to 
conclude Halifax did not act unfairly or unreasonably in deciding not to pursue the 
chargeback further for Mr W.
Other points
Mr W has previously referred to the law requiring refunds of APD, and argues that airlines 
must refund APD in situations like his. 
Ive noted above that Zs terms said it would refund the APD, however this would have been 
consumed by the Seat Protection Fee. But even if that was not the case, chargebacks are 
not decided in accordance with national laws. Mastercard say this very clearly in the 
guidance document I referred to earlier. And the information I have been able to find from 
the air industry regulator regarding refunds of APD suggests it is not a legal requirement that 
airlines provide such refunds in any event.2
I can understand why Mr W feels aggrieved. It wasnt his fault that he couldnt fly to Tenerife, 
and he lost his holiday and didnt get his money back. I find however, that Halifax did all that 
Id reasonably expect them to have done to help him claim a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
2 https://www.caa.co.uk/passengers/before-you-fly/making-a-booking/comparing-prices-and-charges/ 