DRN-2473515
The complaint
Mr U complains that Scottish Widows Limited delayed sending him a forfeiture payment for 
his endowment policy.
What happened
In 1996, Mr U took out a savings endowment policy with Scottish Widows. The policy had a 
term of 20 years and was due to mature in April 2016.
The policy was forfeited in 2001 because Mr U hadnt kept up to date with his premiums. 
Scottish Widows says it wrote to Mr U advising him of the forfeiture value and enclosed a 
form for him to claim payment. 
In late 2019, Mr U complained that Scottish Widows had failed to forward money owing to 
him. 
Scottish Widows said it had paid Mr U the forfeiture value of the policy in March 2018. It 
acknowledged it should have paid it sooner. This should have happened in January 2017, 
when Mr U provided the necessary documentation. But it didnt think it was responsible for 
the payment not being made before then. To put things right it paid Mr U compensatory 
interest at 8% per annum on the forfeiture amount from January 2017 to March 2018.
Mr U asked Scottish Widows to review its decision. He also raised concerns that Scottish 
Widows hadnt paid him money owed to him from its demutualisation in 2000.
Scottish Widows felt its decision about the forfeiture payment was fair. It told Mr U it had sent 
him a cheque for the demutualisation payment in August 2000.
 
Mr U remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. In the meantime, 
Scottish Widows offered him £150 for trouble and upset. But Mr U didnt think this was 
sufficient to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator thought the £150 Scottish Widows had offered Mr U was fair. She was 
satisfied Scottish Widows did what it could to let Mr U know about the forfeiture payment at 
the time. She also thought Scottish Widows was likely to have sent Mr U the demutualisation 
cheque in 2000 and he was likely to have cashed it.
Mr U accepted what our investigator had said about the demutualisation payment. But he 
didnt agree with her findings on the forfeiture payment. He was willing to accept the £150 
Scottish Widows had offered for trouble and upset but he thought it should also pay him 
interest on the forfeiture value from the date of forfeiture to the date of settlement. 
As Mr U has disagreed with our investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mr U has accepted our investigators view regarding the demutualisation aspect of his 
complaint. So, I wont comment any further on this, other than to say I believe the conclusion 
the investigator reached was fair.
Mr U believes Scottish Widows should have paid him the amount due to him soon after his 
policy was forfeited in 2001. He says he wasnt informed that Scottish Widows was holding 
on to his money until September 2016. He responded with the required documents and 
payment was made after a long time chasing it.
Scottish Widows has provided copies of letters it sent to Mr U. In March 2001 it informed him 
that the policy would be forfeited if Mr U didnt bring his payments up to date by September 
2001. A letter dated October 2001 told him the policy had been forfeited and included a form 
for Mr U to complete and return to claim the forfeiture value of £823. It sent him another form 
to claim the forfeiture value in December 2003.
 
Mr U says he didnt receive any of these letters. But Im satisfied they were sent to the 
correct address  one which he says has belonged to him and his family for more than 20 
years. 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr U again in September 2016 saying, we have £823 of yours  
please help us pay it to you. It asked Mr U to complete an identification and verification form 
and return it along with documents confirming his details. 
Scottish Widows has acknowledged it should have made the payment to Mr U shortly after 
he returned the paperwork in January 2017, but it didnt do so until March 2018. Its paid him 
8% per annum interest for that period to compensate him for the delay. And I think this is 
fair.
I appreciate Mr U feels that interest should be paid from 2001. But Im satisfied that Scottish 
Widows made reasonable efforts to let him know the money was due to him. Its possible 
that Mr U didnt receive its letters, but I cant say Scottish Widows is responsible for this as 
they appear to have been sent to the correct address.
Ive also considered Mr Us comment that Scottish Widows should have paid the money 
directly into his bank account. But Scottish Widows says it required him to return the 
paperwork before it released the money. And its not this services role to comment on a 
businesss processes. So, this point doesnt make a difference to the conclusion Ive 
reached. 
I appreciate it was frustrating and inconvenient for Mr U to have to chase Scottish Widows 
for payment after he returned the paperwork in January 2017. But I think the £150 its offered 
him is fair compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should pay Mr U £150 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman