DRN-3664294
The complaint
Mr B has complained about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
References to esure include companies and contractors acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr B had a fire at his home. So, he contacted esure to make a claim. Mr Bs home had a 
range of fire damage and he initially stayed with a friend. However, he said he then moved 
home, despite there being no electricity. 
Mr B complained to esure. He said it should have done more to find alternative 
accommodation for him and its communication was poor. When esure replied, it agreed 
there had been some slight delays, but steps had been taken to keep Mr B updated 
throughout the claim process. It said Mr B had been provided with alternative 
accommodation or a disturbance allowance. It offered £75 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him.
When Mr B complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said esure wasnt 
aware Mr B needed different arrangement to be made for his accommodation and it had 
tried to contact Mr B at various points, sometimes without success. He said esure had acted 
reasonably.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr B has told this service that he had to move back into his home very shortly after the fire, 
despite it being fire damaged and having no electricity. He said esure was aware of this and 
failed to help him find alternative accommodation
Ive listened to the phone call when Mr B contacted esure to open the claim for the fire. He 
said he had stayed at a friends house the night following the fire. esure told Mr B once the 
company dealing with the claim had been appointed, it could help him find alternative 
accommodation. Mr B said he thought that would be necessary. esure told Mr B that in the 
meantime it could pay for him to stay at a local hotel if needed and that he should keep any 
invoices.
esures records show that the following day Mr B advised he was staying with a friend and 
he would try and arrange some other accommodation. The next day esure tried to phone Mr 
B to arrange an appointment with the loss adjuster. Mr B didnt answer, so a voicemail was 
left and a text message was also sent. Mr B then phoned back. The next day esure tried to 
phone Mr B again, but couldnt get through to him. A voicemail was left telling Mr B that if he 
wanted to stay in a hotel he could do so and to keep the receipts.
Mr B has told this service that he was living back at his property by this point as he had 
nowhere else to go. He said a contractor was shocked that he was living there and told 
esure this was the case. Looking at the records, this shows that an email was sent by a 
contractor which said Mr B had said he was concerned he might have to move back into the 
house by the weekend, before any electrical checks were carried out, and that he hadnt 
been able to find alternative accommodation. The email said Mr B had said he was currently 
living with a friend. It was following this that a voicemail was left saying Mr B could stay in a 
hotel and to keep the receipts. Based on this, I havent seen anything that shows anyone 
was aware that Mr B was living back at the property. In the circumstances, I think esure 
responded reasonably based on the information available to it.
The next record I could find about alternative accommodation was about a week later. This 
said that the electrics at the property were about to be switched off and that Mr B didnt have 
any alternative accommodation sorted. The note said he had stayed at a hotel at the 
weekend, but now had nowhere to go. esure tried to contact Mr B and had reached his 
voicemail. This was followed up with a text that said they had tried to phone to discuss 
alternative accommodation and gave a phone number to call back on. The text also said Mr 
B could stay in a hotel and gave an email address to send the invoice to. 
A note on the file shows that a couple of hours later, a contractor contacted esure and said 
Mr B was at the property and that he would need more than one nights accommodation due 
to some works that were due to be carried out. About ten minutes after this, esure phoned 
Mr B and spoke to him. It was agreed he would stay at a hotel, which esure would reimburse 
and he would be phoned in the morning to discuss further accommodation options. I can see 
that Mr B was phoned the following day. He confirmed the hotel he had stayed at the night 
before and the cost. He also said where he would be staying that night but didnt know the 
cost of it. Mr B said he was finding it difficult to find accommodation as everywhere was 
booked. Shortly after this phone call esure sent an urgent instruction for a company to find 
accommodation for Mr B.
About three days later, there was a note on the file saying the alternative accommodation 
costs had been agreed with Mr B, as he had phoned, but that it had been difficult to get in 
touch with him. The same day it was identified that Mr B would need alternative 
accommodation for 3-4 months because of the repairs required. esure tried to contact Mr B, 
as he had complained, and again left a voicemail and sent a text message. Mr B then 
phoned back and discussed his concerns and explained that because he was at the 
property, it was difficult to charge his phone, which was why he was difficult to contact. Mr B 
told this service that following this phone call, he was able to extend his stay at the 
accommodation he was in at the time until esure was able to arrange somewhere else to 
stay.
One of Mr Bs concerns was that he thought esure should arrange the accommodation for 
him, rather than him having to sort it himself. Insurers deal with alternative accommodation 
in different ways. Sometimes they ask the policyholder to arrange it themselves and then 
reimburse it, this includes when accommodation is needed at short notice. Insurers also 
sometimes use specialist companies to source accommodation, including for longer term 
lets. It can also time to find longer term lets and Im aware that a property that was found fell 
through, which added to the delays. 
I dont think esure have done anything unusual in terms of how they dealt with the alternative 
accommodation. The situation also seemed to be more complicated at times because esure kept having to leave messages. From what Ive seen, each time esure was aware there was 
an issue, it promptly followed up on this and told Mr B what steps he could take so he didnt 
have to stay at the property.
Having looked at everything that happened, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
esure knew Mr B was living at the damaged property. I also think esure took prompt steps to 
help Mr B deal with his immediate need if he wanted to find accommodation and that it also 
took steps to arrange a longer term let. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require 
esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman