DRN-4070871
The complaint
Mr T complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly granted him a personal loan 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr T took out a loan of £24,569.59 over a term of 60 months. It was partly 
used to repay his existing loan, which had a balance of £16,569.59. Of the additional £8,000, 
Mr T used £1,500 to pay down his credit card balance and it looks as though he used £2,295 
to buy a car. The rest of the money seems to have cleared the overdraft on his joint current 
account, with some left over for general use. The monthly payment on the new loan was 
£582.53. 
Mr T told us that, when he took out the loan, he was receiving universal credit, and therefore 
Lloyds should have known that he wouldnt be able to repay the loan, and shouldnt have let 
him borrow more. He said this made his financial position worse and with charges and fees 
on top he fell behind with other bills and had to resort to payday loans on several occasions. 
He also said that almost every month he had an unplanned overdraft which added even 
more fees on top, and he had to ask for repayment holidays. 
Mr T would like Lloyds to clear the loan and refund the interest and charges, and also 
remove any late payment and default markers from his credit record.
Lloyds said it had carried out appropriate checks before granting the loan, and told Mr T that 
it did not uphold the complaint. Mr T then brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr T didnt agree, and asked 
for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
On balance, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Lloyds completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to make the repayments on 
the loan account in a sustainable way.
Lloyds sent in information about how it assessed Mr Ts loan application, as well as bank 
statements for Mr Ts joint current account from October 2019 to January 2021. It said that, 
when Mr T applied for the loan, he told Lloyds that he was earning £2,698 per month and 
had expenses of £380 per month. It told us that it used the information it already held along 
with the information used on his application and his credit file to approve the loan, and that 
Mr T's bank statements show it was affordable for him to pay the loan when it was approved. 
I dont have a copy of Mr Ts credit report, but I cant see anything to suggest that Mr T had 
any credit commitments with another lender, so Im satisfied I have enough information on 
which to base my decision. 
Ive looked at the bank statements, and in the three months before taking out the loan Mr Ts 
monthly income varied from just under £1,800 to just under £2,400. This is less than stated 
by Lloyds, but the variation suggests to me that some element of overtime was likely to have 
been involved. So its possible other salary payments were higher. On top of this, child 
benefit was being paid into the current account. 
Mr T told us he was receiving universal credit, but the first entry on the bank statements that 
appears to relate to this is in April 2020  three months after the loan started  and the 
amount and frequency varied. As this was a joint account, its not clear whether it was Mr T 
or his partner who was eligible, and Ive no information about what led to the claim. And I 
note Mr Ts salary continued to be credited to the account each month.
Lloyds said that Mr T had expenses of £380 per month. This relates to half of the rental 
payment of £760 per month. It said that it used the information it held, along with information 
from credit reference agencies to estimate the monthly minimum repayments on what he 
already owed. It then estimated day to day living costs using data from the Office of National 
Statistics Family Spending Survey.
From whats on the bank statements, the rental payment was indeed £760 each month, so 
its reasonable to take Mr T as being responsible for half of it. Mr Ts only credit 
commitments appear to have been the loan that was being repaid by the new borrowing, and 
a credit card, also with Lloyds, along with the overdraft on the joint current account (which 
was within the allowed limit shown on the statements). Mr T seemed to be paying just under 
£130 each month towards the credit card in the lead up to the new loan being granted. And 
the monthly loan payment before January 2020 was £597.05. Neither Lloyds nor Mr T has 
suggested that he was in arrears on either the loan or the credit card. 
Having looked carefully at all of the evidence, I think Lloydss checks were reasonable and 
proportionate in this case. Lloyds was able to look at Mr Ts entire income and outgoings as 
it held his current account, loan, and credit card. The commitments that I noted earlier were 
reflected in the checks, both in terms of the amount outstanding and the monthly repayments 
required, which Lloyds said it took from credit reference agency records as well as its own. 
Lloyds also took account of the rental payments that Mr T had stated, as well as considering 
typical figures for outgoings, and said these checks showed a figure for disposable income 
well in excess of the repayments on the loan it was considering (and of course the new loan 
was replacing the previous, higher, loan commitment). Ive no reason to doubt that, even 
taking account of Mr Ts salary seeming to be a little lower than the figure he gave Lloyds. 
I accept that this was quite a large loan, but I dont consider there was anything to suggest 
difficulties with covering the existing commitments or a potential difficulty in maintaining 
payments on the new loan. Ive also kept in mind that despite the increase in the loan 
amount, the monthly payment was lower than for the loan it was replacing, (because it was 
being paid off over a longer term). Part of the loan was used to reduce Mr Ts credit card 
balance, and the remainder of the loan was paid into Mr Ts current account, bringing it back into credit, so he consolidated debt into the new loan and therefore slightly reduced his 
monthly outgoings. 
I can see that Mr T has since had financial problems, and I appreciate this is a difficult time 
for him. But from the evidence I have, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly when approving the 
loan application in January 2020, so I dont think Mr T has lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman