The complaint
Mr As complaint is about his execution only spread-bet account with CMC Spreadbet Plc 
(CMC). He has raised a number of matters related to his trading in 2019. The matters have 
been addressed under two separate cases. The present case addresses the application of 
Close-Outs in his account. He says they were applied unfairly and without transparency. 
What happened
CMC disputes the complaint. In the main, it broadly says that Mr As account equity had to 
be above 50% of its total margin in the account and if this was breached a close-out could 
automatically be applied; and that where close-outs were applied in his account they were 
done in a manner consistent with the terms of the account and relevant regulations.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, he broadly agreed with CMC and he 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He highlighted the following:
The trading platform displays the relevant close-out level and Account Revaluation
Amount (ARA); and the close-out process can be triggered when the latter falls
below the former.
The ARA is based on the relevant Level 1 Mid Price.
Close-out orders are executed at the relevant buy or sell price(s), not the mid price.
Changes between the price(s) at the start of the close-out process and the price(s) at
the point of execution might occur in fast price moving markets; in addition, the same
or similar could happen where there is insufficient market volume to fill close-out
orders of a particular size.
Mr A disagreed with this outcome. He responded to the points highlighted by the adjudicator 
as follows:
The platforms reference to the relevant close-out level does not include any
quantitative or qualitative description which transparently explains when this occurs.
It was inappropriate for the investigator to say the close out process begins when
the ARA falls below the close-out level because there is evidence in his account and
in which the ARA has fallen below that level and nothing happened; this inflated
crystalized losses in his case; CMC has no excuse for this, the platforms reaction
should have been immediate given the advances in trading technology.
CMC is able to provide millisecond tick prices to execute the opening of trades at
exact prices, yet it unreasonably applies close-outs of trades in an uncertain manner.
Is the investigators reference to the execution pricing approach for close-outs
expressed in the terms for the account?
CMC has not said there were market gaps or liquidity problems related to his
complaint; in this context and given, again, the advances in trading technology it is
unreasonable for the investigator to accept that price changes can occur between the
DRN-1724556beginning of the close-out process and the point of execution in fast price moving 
markets; reference to fast in this respect is redundant as CMC is able to execute 
opening trades and stop losses in such an environment, so this should not be 
different for close-outs.
An investigation into the available tick data and available prices relevant to the close-
outs in his case  which were not executed at the correct trigger levels (or were 
executed at delayed trigger levels)  should be conducted.
CMC reiterated that close-outs are executed automatically by the platform, after being 
triggered, but it does not guarantee execution at a specific level and it has no obligation to 
give such a guarantee. It also referred us to clause 8.1 of its Risk Warning notice which, it 
says, repeats this message. Mr A says he does not recall this clause ever being brought to 
his attention and that there was nothing in the platform (or messages from the platform) that 
explained the prospect of close-outs in this fashion.
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CMCs terms of business  applicable from January 2018 and available from its website  
include a Schedule of terms for spread bets and, within that, a section about account close-
outs. The terms also include a Schedule of definitions, within which:
Account close-outs are defined as A procedure by which our Platform may close the 
whole or a portion of your Bets  and a close-out level is defined as  the 
applicable level at which our Platform may close the whole or a portion of your Bets 
as necessary. [my emphasis]
The ARA is defined as The sum of your Cash and any net Unrealised Profit Or Loss 
(as applicable), where net Unrealised Profit or Loss is calculated using the mid-price 
between the first Buy Price and Sell Price displayed on the price ladder on the 
Platform, that is displayed on our Platform and updated in real time.
The section in the Schedule, about account close-outs, includes the following lead 
explanation:
You must ensure that for each Account your Account Revaluation Amount is at all times 
above the applicable Close-Out Level for your Account displayed on our Platform. Where 
your Account Revaluation Amount is less than the applicable Close-Out Level, our Platform 
may automatically initiate Account CloseOut in accordance with your Account settings. 
Further details on the applicable Close-Out Level for your Account, and the methods of 
Account Close-Out, can be found on our Platform. Account Close-Out does not and is not 
intended to limit your entire liability to us in respect of your Bets. [my emphasis]
Section 8.1 of CMCs Risk Warning notice  also applicable from January 2018 and 
available on its website  said:
The automatic closure of your Bets and/or Positions by our Platform and/or our client 
management team (if we have agreed to provide you with the sales trader service) is 
intended to prevent you incurring further losses and we may close all Bets and/or Positions 
on your Account, not just Bets that are making a loss. However, we do not guarantee such 
closure and you must not rely on it. It is your responsibility to monitor your Positions and 
your Account Revaluation Amount closely. Our Platform and/or our client management team 
will attempt to notify you when your Account Revaluation Amount reaches a specific level, although you should not rely on our Platform and/or our client management team giving you 
this warning. To prevent Account Close-Out, you should keep an amount in your Account 
that allows sufficient headroom to keep your Positions open in case of sudden changes to 
the required Margin amount resulting from Price movements. It is important to note that an 
amount deposited into your Account (which appeared to be sufficient) can very quickly 
become insufficient, due to rapidly changing market conditions. [my emphasis]
CMCs Order Execution Policy (OEP)  also applicable from January 2018 and available 
from its website  confirms that pricing and order execution is fully automated within its 
platform. It also differentiates between trades closed upon instructions (and the different 
procedures that apply depending on the relevant instructed order) and trades closed in the 
absence of instructions where CMC has a right to do so (such as account close-outs).
Overall, individually and collectively, the document references I have made above support 
CMCs position in disputing the complaint and its reasons for doing so. 
I am persuaded that the documents would have been accessible to Mr A as a CMC account 
holder, that they defined the terms of his account, that they were expressly or implicitly 
agreed by him (otherwise he is unlikely to have been grated use of the account) and that 
they were documents CMC was reasonably entitled to expect him to be aware of. A terms of 
business document, a risk warning document and an OEP document are fundamental 
materials that a trading account holder would be reasonably expected to be given (or given 
access to) and to be familiar with (or at least aware of). 
Even if Mr A maintains that he does not recall the Risk Warning notice (or section 8.1 within 
it) that does not mean he was not made aware of it or he was not invited to be familiar with it 
or he could not access it. On balance, I consider that he would have been made aware of it 
and would have been invited to be familiar with its contents, given that risks are inherent 
considerations in trading. It is also a publicly accessible document. The same applies to the 
other documents I have mentioned. Individually and collectively  and in response to Mr As 
main points  these documents: 
Sufficiently define and describe close-out levels, account close-outs and ARAs.
Show that it was Mr As primary and sole responsibility to manage and monitor his 
account in a manner that avoided them and/or mitigated them.
Show that close-outs were not guaranteed to apply at a particular time or price level 
after the ARA breached the close-out level.
Show that close outs were/are not comparable, in treatment, to the other types of 
trading orders Mr A mentioned  as those orders are based on instructions and the 
OEP explains that close-outs are not based on instructions (instead, they are based 
on an exercising of CMCs contractual right to close trades). 
Show that Mr As examples of delayed close-outs were not in breach of the relevant 
close-out terms.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr As 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.Roy Kuku
Ombudsman