DRN-3859937
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly calculated his mortgage 
account and has overcharged him.
To settle the complaint Mr F wants the bank to compensate him for the amount he says he 
was overcharged on redemption.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr F being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr F had a mortgage with Barclays taken out in about 1992, jointly with another party. The 
mortgage was over a 25-year term which came to an end in 2017.  The mortgage was 
redeemed on 2 September 2021.
Mr F believes Barclays overcharged by about £800 when the mortgage was repaid. Barclays 
didnt agree thered been any error so Mr F brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Barclays had made a mistake. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the compliant. He believes the error 
with the account goes back over 20 years and that his calculation of how much was owed 
didnt tally with what Barclays redemption statement said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that this was a joint mortgage account but only Mr F has joined in the complaint. Mr F 
has explained that he no longer has any contact with the other party. Generally Id require all 
parties to a complaint to join in, but as its not possible to locate the other party, Im satisfied 
I can look at the complaint brought by Mr F alone.
Mr F had originally raised another issue about a legal fee added to the account, which the 
investigator thought had been brought too late for us to consider. Im satisfied I cant look at 
that matter, because Mr F didnt refer it to us within six months of the final response letter, 
and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay.
Ive reviewed the available documents about the mortgage, including the annual statements 
and the redemption statement. Historic documents going back more than 20 years are no 
longer available. Theres nothing sinister about this; where accounts are transferred onto 
new systems, historic records will be lost. Barclays isnt under any obligation to keep records 
indefinitely. Mr F also hasnt been able to provide us with the documents going back more 
than 20 years, so Ive reviewed the complaint on the basis of the evidence that is available. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr F has said about why he thinks hes been overcharged. 
Mr F says that his overpayments havent been taken into account. Although I know Mr F 
believes theres been a mistake by Barclays, my review of the documentation doesnt 
persuade me that the redemption figure is incorrect.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find Barclays has done anything wrong.
Its important to mention that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing 
service, and so Ive based my decision on the evidence provided by the parties. Its always 
open to Mr F to have the account audited by his own expert at his own expense. If an 
independent audit showed an error in the figures that is to Mr Fs detriment, he would be free 
to raise another complaint about that, and to include in his claim for compensation the cost 
of the audit. 
However, on the basis of the evidence I have considered, Im unable to find Barclays has 
done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman