DRN-1657780
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank Plc should have done more to help Mr W make a 
chargeback claim, after a company took more money than he was expecting when he made 
a payment on his debit card. 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr W agreed for a company to supply and fit some windows and doors for 
him. He was expecting to pay £12,995 over three instalments. By May, the company told him 
to make the final payment using a debit card. Mr W agreed, thinking he had £2,000 left to 
pay. He gave the company his card details over the phone to make the payment. 
The next day, Mr W was surprised to see the company was set to take £4,599. When he 
asked them why this was, the company said the extra £2,599 was for VAT. Mr W hadnt 
realised hed have to pay VAT on top of the agreed price, and hadnt known that much was 
going to be taken when he authorised the payment. So he asked his bank, Lloyds, to help. 
Lloyds began Visas chargeback process. But when the window company told them the extra 
money was for VAT, Lloyds told Mr W that was as far as they could go to help him. Mr W 
complained, so Lloyds explained in more detail how theyd come to their decision.
Our investigator has explained why they think it was reasonable for Lloyds not to continue 
with the chargeback. Mr W didnt agree as, even if he had to pay the VAT, the process used 
to take it from him wasnt right. 
The case has come to me for a final decision. While I can see Mr Ws point here, I can also 
see that the evidence available supports arguments that work against him in the chargeback 
process. Ill explain below why this leads me to find Lloydss decision not to continue was 
reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds said in their response to this complaint, the chargeback process is governed by 
rules made by Visa. Ive taken a look at the October 2018 version of the rules, which are the 
ones that would apply to a transaction in May 2019. Ive also had a look at the banks 
obligations under part six of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR), which  among 
other things  deals with what a payment service provider must do when authorisation for a 
transaction is in question. 
The brief explanation given when Lloyds decided not to proceed with the chargeback said 
that the window company hadnt taken the wrong amount by mistake. Thats correct, but 
Mr Ws point was more that hed been tricked by the window company. 
Lloyds said in their complaint response that because Mr W had provided his debit card 
details when paying, the matter couldnt be treated as a fraud. I dont think that did enough to explain the position. The window company saying they were going to take one amount and 
then taking a different one would certainly be an issue. The chargeback rules (specifically 
point 11.8.3.2) and the PSRs mentioned above would cover that sort of thing.
The issue really is that Lloyds could expect this chargeback claim would be defended after 
seeing the response from the window company. A defended claim could end up going to 
Visa for arbitration. The chargeback rules explain thered be a cost penalty for Lloyds if they 
went ahead and the claim didnt succeed, so they needed to think carefully about doing so. 
Even though Mr W wanted them to go ahead, Lloyds could justifiably decide not to if the 
available evidence left them in doubt about getting a good result. 
Lloyds were right to say the invoice the window company gave them when responding to the 
chargeback is a key document. I know Mr W says he wasnt given this in March 2019, when 
the document is dated. But I think it would be difficult for him or Lloyds to prove that, so I can 
see why Lloyds gave some thought to the invoice when deciding what to do. 
If we take the invoice as it appears, which I agree Lloyds were right to do, then it shows VAT 
was always factored in to the final payment that Mr W had to make. So when the window 
company asked him to agree to make the final payment over the phone, they could say he 
should have understood this meant he was authorising a payment of more than just £2,000.
Its true theres a mistake on the invoice, but that indicates Mr W would have been charged 
more than the exact £4,599 that was taken. So I dont think that helps to argue too much 
was taken.
The other factor against Mr W here is that there seems little reason for the window company 
to try to trick him like this. The agreement that Mr W signed in March 2019 said that VAT 
would be charged on top of the £12,995 quoted. I understand Mr Ws point that the full terms 
and conditions where this was written were on the back of the document he signed. That 
isnt particularly unusual. And the window companys position against him on this seems 
stronger because Mr W signed to say hed read and agreed to those terms. 
The window company looks to have an argument here for Mr W to pay the VAT, which 
makes it less likely they would act fraudulently to have it paid. The disputed invoice and the 
unread terms and conditions said that VAT was payable on top of the cost quoted. When 
Mr W was asked for and made the final payment, I can see how those documents give 
weight to the argument that he could have expected £4,599 to be taken, not £2,000. 
With this in mind, I find it was reasonable for Lloyds to look at the evidence they had and 
decide not to go ahead with the chargeback. And although its possible to make the 
argument that Mr W didnt consent to the payment, as required by the PSR, that position 
isnt clear-cut. It wouldnt be right for me to require Lloyds to reimburse Mr W if that resulted 
in the bank paying money he was always due to pay.
I appreciate that leaves Mr and Mrs W having paid the window company more than they feel 
they should have. Mr W is pursuing that with the window company directly, so I hope that 
can reach a satisfactory conclusion for him. My decision here is limited to the part Lloyds 
have played in the matter, by justifiably deciding not to take the chargeback claim further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the decision Lloyds Bank Plc made. No 
further action will be needed from them to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman