DRN-3217659
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) change in its overdraft charging structure 
put her in financial difficulty and that it failed notify her about her account going to 
collections.
What happened
Miss S complained to Lloyds when her account went to collections  she said she didnt 
receive the notification letter as she wasnt living at the address it was sent to. Miss S said 
Lloyds should have called her to check on her situation and that she couldnt pay back the 
overdraft or manage the account because the daily overdraft charges were putting her 
further into debt. 
Lloyds said it spoke to Miss S and agreed she would get in touch about setting up a payment 
plan. Around a month following the phone call a number of letters were sent to her Miss S 
about the status of her account and because her account was over the arranged overdraft 
limit and Miss S failed to get in touch about a payment plan her account was closed with an 
outstanding balance of £1,884.83.
Following the closure of the account Lloyds gave Miss S a further two months to clear the 
debt but Miss S was unable to do so and the debt was sold to a third party. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ss concern and reached the conclusion Lloyds 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Miss S has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account when Lloyds changed its overdraft pricing structure. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at Lloydss various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss S if it applied any interest, fees and charges 
to Miss Ss account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss S was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Lloyds didnt treat Miss S fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Lloyds did treat Miss S unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Ss statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Lloyds ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
Lloyds getting in touch with Miss S about setting up a repayment plan. 
While Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss S expenditure, 
nonetheless having looked at Miss Ss statements there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. And its also fair to say that these 
continued even after Lloyds changed the pricing structure. 
Furthermore, the amount being credited to Miss Ss account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Miss S wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Lloyds to any potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Lloyds to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Ss account was being used. 
I also dont think Lloyds acted unfairly when it closed Miss Ss account and sold the debt to a 
third party. Lloyds had already spoken to Miss S about her account and tried to get her to 
agree a repayment plan. Failing this Lloyds sent letters to the address it had registered for 
her notifying of what was to happen to her account. I accept that Miss S may not have 
received these letters as she wasnt residing at the address Lloyds had registered for her, 
but it was her responsibility to notify Lloyds of any change of address or circumstance  so I 
cant say Lloyds is at fault here. And as I stated above, I cannot make a bank changes its 
systems or processes  Lloyds were perfectly within its rights to close Miss Ss account, sell 
the debt and try and recoup any losses. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Lloyds treated Miss S unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss S  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman