DRN-3985726
The complaint
Mr E and the estate of Mrs E complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE 
Money) didnt deal fairly with claims they made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
in relation to their purchase of a holiday product.
Mrs E has sadly passed away and the complaint is being progressed by her estate and Mr 
E, who are both represented by a claims management company (that Ill call S). 
What happened
Mr E and the late Mrs E bought a timeshare membership from a business (that Ill refer to as 
C) on 12 November 2007. The timeshare product cost around £5,000 and they took out a 
loan in joint names with GE Money to part fund the purchase. Mr E and the estate of Mrs E 
say (in summary):-
C made misrepresentations at the outset and they wouldnt have bought the 
product and taken out the loan if theyd known what C said wasnt right 
they were treated unfairly and pressured into making the purchase 
the relationship between them and GE Money was unfair due to the terms of the 
timeshare agreement and the loan - and things done (or not done) by GE Money 
(and/or C on behalf of GE Money): and 
GE Money failed to check properly if the loan was affordable.
S contacted GE Money on behalf of Mr E and the estate of Mrs E about their claims on 22
November 2021 and GE Money responded on 15 December 2021 rejecting the complaint. 
GE Money said it didnt have much information about the loan (due to the passage of time) 
but it was settled on 22 September 2010 and it was too late to bring the relevant claims 
under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). 
Mr E and the estate of Mrs E didnt think that was fair and the matter was referred to our
service in early January 2022. One of our investigators considered the evidence. He said we
couldnt consider the section 75 claim - because GE Money wasnt authorised by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) when it was asked to consider that - meaning this part of
the complaint was out of our jurisdiction. The investigator thought the remaining claims were 
brought too late (under the LA) so GE Money didnt need to consider the substance. And he 
wasnt persuaded there was enough evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable for Mr 
E and the late Mrs E, at the relevant time. 
The investigator didnt think GE Money needed to do anything else and S asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review. S made additional submissions stating 
(among other things) that the claims were brought in time because time should be extended 
under FCA rules and provisions of the LA - and the timeshare agreement is null and void 
under an EU Directive meaning the loan itself is voidable.
Having considered the available evidence, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators however and I issued a provisional 
decision on 14 February 2023 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions - and make 
further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out what I 
decided provisionally (and why) below (in italics) and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision about the merits of
this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
S has provided detailed submissions that make reference to various regulations, legislation
and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law and regulations,
regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice,
when I make my decision. And I want to assure the parties, if I dont address every point
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything
thats been said and sent to us, but Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive explained in a separate decision why this service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider
the section 75 complaint. Im satisfied however that the claims raised under sections 75 and
140A CCA are separate causes of action and different considerations apply. Im going to
deal with the merits of the remainder of the complaint in this decision. Among other things, S
says there were various acts and omissions by C and GE Money that made the relationship
between GE Money and Mr E and the late Mrs E unfair.
The relevant regulated activity Im considering here is the exercise of a lenders rights and
duties under a regulated credit agreement. This service has jurisdiction to consider such
complaints since 6 April 2007. And I think the acts and omissions complained about would
have occurred at the time of sale and throughout the duration of the loan agreement - from
November 2007 until September 2010. Im satisfied that GE Money was regulated during
this time and we are able to look into the section 140A complaint.
The claim under section 140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the debtor arising out of
the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I
consider this is relevant law and Ive taken it into account when deciding whats a fair and
reasonable outcome.
Im satisfied that the time limit applicable to this claim is six years from the date the debtor-
creditor relationship ended - under section 9 of the LA. Ive seen a statement of account that
shows the loan was paid off on 22 September 2010 - and S seems to accept thats when the
relevant relationship ended. Mr E and the estate of Mrs E didnt contact GE Money about the
claims until 22 November 2021 which is more than six years later. And Im afraid this means
the claim wasnt raised within the relevant limitation period. I appreciate S considers Mr E
and the estate of Mrs E should have twelve years from the date the relationship ended under
section 8 of the LA  as the claim is based on a specialty - but I dont agree. Im satisfied that 
this is a claim for sums recoverable by statute which falls under section 9 and Ive seen 
nothing to show that the 12-year extension for a speciality applies.
I realise Mr E and the estate of Mrs E may not have known about the time limits set out in
the LA but thats not generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. The
LA does allow time to be extended in certain circumstances however and Ive gone on toconsider this below.
Section 14A LA
Section 14A provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. And
S argues that GE Money owed a duty to Mr E and the late Mrs E to ensure that the
timeshare agreement was compliant with certain legislation - and GE Money breached this
duty.
Ive considered what happened when Mr E and the late Mrs E purchased the timeshare and
took out the finance along with relevant documentation. I accept there was an obligation to
give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed
choice about whether to take out the loan. But, I cant see a duty of care arose or advice was
provided that could give rise to a claim to which this section could apply. It follows Im not
persuaded that the limitation period can be extended under this provision.
Section 32 LA
Ive also given some thought to section 32 LA. This relates to the extension of time for
starting an action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found - or could with reasonable
diligence have been discovered. For the reasons set out below, I dont think this provision
takes matters any further in these particular circumstances.
Ive considered the submissions made about the payment of commission by GE Money to
the product provider for arranging the loan. I cant see that C was acting as agent to Mr E
and the late Mrs E - or owed them a fiduciary duty in this situation. Im satisfied Cs role
wasnt to make an impartial or dis-interested recommendation and I dont think it was
required to disclose to them that it might have received a commission. In addition Ive seen
nothing to show that any commission paid would have breached any duty. And Im not
persuaded (if its suggested) that any commission was such that GE Money should have
appreciated not disclosing this risked the debtor-creditor relationship being unfair under
section 140A.
In light of the above, I dont think section 32 assists Mr E and the estate of Mrs E. In any
event, even if I were persuaded they could rely on section 32, I think its unlikely a court
would find the commission paid created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
Was the loan agreement voidable ?
S argues that the timeshare agreement here was null and void meaning the loan itself was
voidable - and Mr E and the estate of Mrs E wish to rescind. If the timeshare agreement was
voidable as suggested its possible that the loan was also voidable - on recission of the
agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered under a
section140A claim but, as Ive explained above, I think that claim was brought too late.
I accept this could be a freestanding claim in its own right however so Ive gone on to
consider it separately. Among other things, Ive been referred to an EU Directive, some
Spanish legislation and a Spanish court judgment. I can see S considers this shows that a
timeshare which provides for a floating week (or the ability to use points to book holidays
with a provider) was a voidable agreement but Im not persuaded thats right and Ill explain
why below.
The timeshare agreement is governed by English (not Spanish) law - and I dont think the
Spanish judgment could be applied directly to the question of whether the contract is
voidable under English law. I havent been asked to consider any specific provision that
would point to this timeshare being voidable. And, having considered the relevant legislation,
rules and regulations, I cant see anything which would have the impact S suggests. A recent
House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by UKowners says a floating week or points based timeshare were basic timeshare models -
they werent described as being problems in and of themselves. And, based on the current
evidence, Im not persuaded that the timeshare agreement or the loan here are voidable.
Unaffordable lending
S says proper credit checks were not carried out and it was irresponsible of GE Money to
provide this loan. I havent got much information about any credit checks undertaken before
GE Money provided the loan. But, even if I were to find GE Money didnt do all that it should
have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the loan was actually
unaffordable for Mr E and the late Mrs E (and they lost out as a result) in order to uphold this
part of the complaint. In considering this, I can only take into account the standards that
applied at the relevant time.
Im satisfied the investigator explained in his view that he didnt think the information
provided suggested this loan was unaffordable. No additional information regarding their
financial circumstances at the relevant time was supplied after that and, like the investigator,
I think Mr E and the late Mrs E seemed to have enough disposable income at the time to
afford the loan repayments without too much difficulty. Ive seen paperwork they completed 
when they applied for the loan that says they were both employed with a joint income of over 
£7,000 a month with monthly outgoings (a mortgage and other debts) of about £1,350 - 
including the monthly repayment for this GE loan of about £80 a month. Theres nothing in 
the account statements to suggest that they had difficulties repaying the loan over the first 
year or so (there are no missed payments, for example). And Im not presently persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to reasonably conclude that the loan was unaffordable for Mr E 
and the late Mrs E when they took it out.
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim has expired under the LA. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think any claim that they might have against the supplier 
and/or GE Money has probably exceeded the time limits set out in the LA - and I dont think 
its unreasonable to take this into account. For these reasons Im not persuaded that there 
are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any new comments 
or information by 28 February 2023. I said Id review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision.
GE Money has nothing further to add and S doesnt accept what Ive said. In summary, S 
considers I havent taken all of its previous submissions fully into account and says:- 
the timeshare agreement is not compliant with UK timeshare legislation, the 
withdrawal period is extended by three months and ten days as a result and GE 
Money paid the supplier within this period in breach of timeshare legislation
the finance and the timeshare agreements are linked agreements, GE Money had a 
duty of care to ensure that all laws were complied with and GE Money cant claim 
ignorance of the suppliers actions - GE Money is responsible for the actions of its 
agent
the relationship is unfair under S140A of the CCA and section 14A LA extends the 
time to claim due to GE Moneys negligencethe time to bring a claim is extended to three years from the date of knowledge  
which was when S was engaged - meaning the claim is not out of time.  
Ive considered what S says carefully. I dont think S has provided any significant new 
arguments or fresh evidence. Im satisfied that Ive dealt with any material issues already in 
my provisional decision. And nothing thats been said in response has persuaded me to 
change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given already, I remain of the view that, whilst there was an obligation to 
give Mr E and the late Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan, I cant see a duty of care arose 
or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A could apply. It 
follows Im not persuaded the limitation period can be extended under this provision  or on 
any of the other grounds S has put forward. 
As Ive said already, its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any relevant claim 
may have expired under the LA. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think any claim that 
Mr E and the estate of Mrs E might have against the supplier and/or GE Money is likely to 
have exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I dont think its unreasonable to take this 
into account and Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and the 
estate of Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman