DRN-3418554
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr M as follows: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Monthly 
instalmentsAmount Highest 
repayment
1 10/02/2018 14/02/2018 3 £200 £97.41
2 17/03/2018 31/03/2018 6 £400 £204.26
3 07/04/2018 21/04/2018 6 £600 £224.00
4 07/07/2019 09/09/2019 6 £700 £247.14
5 23/11/2019 24/12/2019 6 £470 £202.41
6 18/01/2020 05/05/2020 12 £650 £173.88
When he complained to Mr Lender, Mr M mainly said that paying Mr Lender each month had 
left him with too little money so he had to keep borrowing to get through the next month. He 
said he had a major mental illness and addiction to gambling which meant the loans 
provided were unaffordable and only repaid if he borrowed further or won whilst gambling. 
Mr M said better checks wouldve shown up all his other debts and money problems.
.
In response, Mr Lender didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint but it offered him a £25 shopping 
voucher and said it would remove information from his credit file as a gesture of goodwill. 
Following this, Mr Lender then conducted its own internal review of historic loans and, as a 
result, it offered to refund any interest and fees Mr M had paid for loan 3, pay him 8% simple 
interest on any refund and remove that loan entirely from his credit file. 
Mr M didnt feel that this offer went far enough to put everything right so he brought his 
complaint to us and one of our adjudicators began an investigation. 
As Mr Lender had already offered to put things right in relation to loan 3, our adjudicator 
concentrated in his decision on looking at the other loans and he upheld the complaint in 
part. Our adjudicator felt he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to have 
provided loans 1, 2, 4 and 5 to Mr M. But our adjudicator explained why he thought that 
Mr Lender shouldve realised that loan 6 shouldnt have been lent and he set out the steps 
he said Mr Lender should take to put things right in relation to that loan.
 
Mr Lender didnt accept our adjudicators view about loan 6 and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr Lender confirmed its offer in respect of loan 3 still stands.
In brief summary, Mr Lender mainly said its checks for loan 6 had been proportionate and 
there was no requirement, and no reason, for it to have asked to see Mr Ms bank 
statements before lending. It pointed out that its affordability checks included taking into 
account statistical information as well as information about expenditure provided by Mr M 
and the fact he settled loans early, including loan 6, demonstrates affordability.  
For his part, Mr M would have liked the adjudicator to have upheld more of his loans and 
there has been an exchange of correspondence between Mr M and our adjudicator about 
this. As I understand it, Mr M hasnt accepted Mr Lenders offer in relation to loan 3 because 
he would like us to look into his complaint about that loan also. And Mr M still feels strongly 
that as loan 6 was the second time that Mr Lender provided a loan it shouldnt have done, 
this needs to be taken into account when I review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
As Mr Lender has already agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 3 and 
to amend Mr Ms credit file by deleting this loan from his credit file, this more than matches 
what we would expect a lender to do in these circumstances. So I dont need to consider this 
loan further as Mr Lender has already said it will do everything that we would tell it to do if 
we upheld the complaint about loan 3, which means theres nothing further for us to do in 
this situation. If Mr M hasnt yet done so and he would like to take up this offer (which 
Mr Lender has confirmed is still open to him to accept) then he should contact Mr Lender 
direct to make the arrangements.
Ill look at each of the other loans in turn.
Loan 1
At this early stage, Mr M didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. And I cant see that there was anything in the 
information Mr M provided or the information Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender 
shouldve enquired further into Mr Ms financial circumstances. 
Mr Lender asked Mr M for details of his monthly income and expenditure and this led 
Mr Lender to conclude, reasonably in my view, that the monthly repayments shouldve been 
comfortably affordable for him. It looked like he had other credit already outstanding  but 
this wouldnt be enough of a reason not to lend to him if the loan otherwise looked affordable 
 as it did here. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit 
history showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
There didnt appear to be any serious black marks within the last three years shown on the 
credit checks Mr Lender obtained such as bankruptcy or any county court judgements and 
Mr M hadnt entered into any arrangement with creditors during this period. So I dont think 
Mr Lender had any reason to think it needed to do more in-depth checks before agreeing to 
provide this loan. And if Mr M didnt mention his gambling spending to Mr Lender at that 
stage, then I cant fairly say that a proportionate check wouldve revealed this information to 
Mr Lender.  
So I cant fairly uphold Mr Ms complaint about this loan. 
Loan 2Mr M took out loan 2 a month or so after he paid loan 1 early and this time he doubled the 
amount hed borrowed first time and set the loan up to repay it over a longer period of time. 
This had the effect of keeping down the monthly repayment amount  but I dont think 
Mr Lender had any reason to think at that stage it shouldnt lend to him again or that Mr M 
would be likely to have a problem making the repayment on loan 2. He hadnt given any 
reason to make Mr Lender think that paying for loan 1 was problematic when he cleared it 
just 4 days after taking it out. And with Mr Lenders affordability calculation suggesting that 
Mr M had more than £1,000 spare cash each month, I can see why Mr Lender might 
reasonably have thought the loan looked like it should be comfortably affordable for Mr M. 
I dont think there was anything in the information that Mr Lender had recorded for Mr M, or 
anything else that it shouldve been aware of at that stage in the lending relationship, which 
wouldve caused Mr Lender to think this loan wasnt affordable for Mr M when he took it out 
or that his borrowing pattern suggested he was in financial difficulty. So I dont feel Ive seen 
enough to be able to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 2.
Loan 4
Mr M didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans during the period April 2018  July 2019. That 
gap of more than a year seems long enough to me for Mr Lender reasonably to think that 
Mr M mightve put his finances in order during this period. This meant that when his 
borrowing started again, and Mr M applied for loan 4, he was effectively starting over. So it 
was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess Mr Ms lending 
requests accordingly.
The figures hed declared, and the information Mr Lender had collected, seem to support 
Mr Lenders lending decision. There wasnt anything to indicate that the loan wouldnt be 
sustainably affordable for Mr M or that it was unfair to lend it to him. All the indications were 
that hed be well able to manage the loan repayments with ample disposable income still left 
over after making the repayments on this loan. Mr Lenders credit checks didnt show he was 
over-reliant on other credit at that stage or give any particular sign that Mr M was in financial 
difficulty  it looked like he was less reliant on other credit than he had been when he took 
out his earlier loans. 
So I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr M provided or the information 
Mr Lender had, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve enquired further into Mr Ms financial 
circumstances before agreeing his loan application. Taking things as a whole, I think it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender to consider that paying for this loan shouldve been affordable for 
Mr M and it made a fair lending decision when it provided the loan. So I cant fairly uphold Mr 
Ms complaint about loan 4. 
Loan 5
Mr Lender followed the same loan application process for this loan and updated the checks 
and credit information it relied on when deciding whether or not to lend. 
Mr Ms income (which Mr Lender had taken steps to verify) was recorded as £2,560. His 
declared expenses came to around £514  including the costs of servicing his other 
outstanding debt. So this appeared to leave Mr M with more than £2,000 disposable income. 
I think this potentially raised a question about why someone with this level of disposable 
income would need to take out this expensive loan. But Mr M was applying to borrow a 
significantly smaller amount than the loan hed repaid two months earlier and there wasnt 
anything concerning in Mr Lenders credit checks. 
On balance, given the loan amount and term, and bearing in mind that despite it being 
Mr Ms fifth loan overall from this lender this was only the second loan in this chain, I think Mr Lender was reasonably entitled to rely on the information it had gathered. Based on this, its 
lending decision was fair and reasonable.
So Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about this loan.
Loan 6
By loan 6, Mr Lender expected Mr M would be paying the loan for the next 12 months. 
Despite Mr Ms apparently sound financial situation, I think this was a long enough loan term 
to go beyond what would be a reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in 
his finances. Ive taken into account Mr Lenders view that its checks for this loan were 
proportionate. But, coupled with the loan term, I think the fact that Mr M still didnt appear to 
have any particular pressing need to continue using high cost credit (according to the 
affordability calculations Mr Lender was relying on) by now put the onus firmly on Mr Lender 
to find out more about why he needed the money. I say this because this potentially 
suggested that Mr Lender couldnt safely rely on its affordability calculations. As far as I can 
see, it recorded no information about the loan purpose. Also, Mr M was signing up to pay the 
loan back over a year  possibly to keep down the monthly repayments.  
So I think Mr Lender ought to have gone further in its affordability checks before agreeing to 
lend. I think Mr Lender should have taken steps to verify what Mr M was saying about his 
financial circumstances  especially his expenditure. Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. 
So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr M. 
Mr M has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out if it had carried out more robust checking of Mr Ms 
circumstances. To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should necessarily have looked at 
bank statements  the rules arent prescriptive. But in the absence of other evidence, I think 
these give a useful insight into Mr Ms finances at the time. 
And had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Ms finances, as I think a proportionate check 
in these particular circumstances wouldve required it to do, it would likely have seen that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money.
I think it would have seen that Mr Ms spending on gambling was clearly linked to his 
borrowing - loans he had taken out with Mr Lender (and others) seemed to be used to fund 
gambling as soon as the money was put into his account - and the amounts had increased in 
recent months. 
I think if Mr Lender had seen this information it shouldve realised that there was a significant 
risk that loan 6 wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr M. And so Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided loan 6.  
I appreciate that Mr M repaid his loans earlier than the agreed terms. But successfully 
repaying his loans doesnt mean he managed to do so in a sustainable way. And borrowing 
and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that his finances were not in a stable 
position. 
To sum up, Im upholding the complaint about loan 6. 
I can see that Mr Lender has said its earlier offer to remove loans 1,2,4 and 5 from Mr Ms 
credit file is still available so Mr M should contact Mr Lender directly about this if hed like to 
take up this offer. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr M, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to) have treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant 
way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair or reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any 
one of these options. This means it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this 
case for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So, Mr Lender should: 
A Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 6 not including anything it has already refunded.
B Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C Pay to Mr M the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D Remove any adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loan 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For these reasons, I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman