DRN-3093442
The complaint
Miss A complains about the quality of a car she bought using credit from Tandem Bank 
Limited (Tandem).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss A made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when the business were responsible for the 
cars quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But if the fault happens after six 
months the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present at the point of 
supply. Im afraid I dont think Miss A has been able to do that.
Miss A says that the boot plug was missing in the car but by the time she noticed that shed 
had the car for a little more than a year. I dont think Miss A has been able to provide 
sufficient evidence to suggest the boot plug hadnt been lost in the time she had ownership 
of the vehicle and, as Ive explained, the law puts the onus on her to do so.
I can also see that other issues were identified by the garage when Miss A took the car to 
them for an MOT in December 2020. There were, for instance, problems with a drive shaft, 
brake pipes and a wheel bearing. Ive not seen that Miss A has complained specifically 
about those costs but, even if Im wrong about that, Miss A would need to demonstrate that 
they were likely to have been faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. 
It would also be necessary to demonstrate that these faults were not the result of normal 
wear and tear and, given that this car had already completed about 100,000 miles and was 
over 13 years old at the time of the MOT, I think a reasonable person would expect many of 
the parts to be reaching the end of their serviceable life and such problems would be fairly 
anticipated. I dont think it would be fair to suggest there is sufficient evidence this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied and Im therefore not telling Tandem to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman