DRN-2971597
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) after a block was placed on his credit card following what they thought was a 
suspicious transaction.
 
What happened
Mr W holds a credit card with NatWest. In May 2020 he used the card to make several 
online purchases. But a few days later when trying to access the card via the mobile banking 
application (app), it had disappeared, so he contacted NatWest. NatWest asked him to call 
their fraud team, but when doing so, he was unable to pass their security checks, and was 
asked to visit a local branch with photographic identification. He visited the branch the next 
day and the block was removed. But, unhappy with the overall service, he complained. 
NatWest said their fraud detection system highlighted the transaction as a potential concern, 
and their process instructed them to take caution when taking any calls regarding Mr Ws 
account as a result. They said they received a call from Mr W shortly after this, but he failed 
to pass their caller security checks, so they were unable to continue with the call and asked 
him to visit a branch with photographic identification to remove the block  which he did the 
next day. They said they did have an alternative process available for vulnerable customers, 
but they were not made aware of any such vulnerability for Mr W. So, they were satisfied 
they followed their processes correctly. 
Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He said the 
matter has caused him anxiety, and he thinks that the transaction was flagged incorrectly. 
He accepts that strictly speaking he didnt pass the required security checks over the phone, 
but he feels this may be due to NatWest holding incorrect information about him. He wants 
NatWest to review their fraud detection systems and internal processes. He also thinks it 
was wrong for them to encourage customers to visit a branch during the Covid-19 pandemic.
   
An investigator considered Mr Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said he 
couldnt comment on NatWests security processes, but he thought it was reasonable for 
NatWest not to approve the transaction before having the opportunity to speak with Mr W. 
And he didnt think the security questions NatWest asked were unreasonable. He accepted it 
wasnt ideal that Mr W had to visit a branch during the Covid-19 pandemic, but he didnt see 
anything to suggest Mr W may have been at a particularly high risk in doing so. So, he didnt 
think it was unreasonable for NatWest to ask him to do so in the circumstances. 
But Mr W remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks have measures in place to protect their customers accounts  this is not unusual. 
These will generally include, but are not limited to things like; fraud prevention systems, and 
customer verification checks. 
When Mr W attempted to make an online purchase using his card in May 2020, NatWests 
internal systems flagged the transaction as a possible concern. Mr W has said that he thinks 
the transaction was flagged incorrectly, and that NatWest should review its internal 
procedures to ensure mistakes like this dont happen. But as the investigator has rightly 
pointed out, it is not for us as a service to determine what measures banks should have in 
place to protects its customers, but to look at whether on the whole, they treated their 
customers fairly when applying them. 
NatWest has said that they were concerned Mr Ws sim card may have been compromised, 
and this was the reason for the transaction being blocked. While its not clear exactly what 
caused that flag to be raised, it seems clear that NatWest were put on alert of a potential 
concern with this transaction, so I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for 
them to take extra care to ensure the security of Mr Ws account remained intact. 
When Mr W called in, he was required to answer some basic security questions in order to 
remove any account blocks, and to be able to continue to transact as normal. One of the 
questions asked related to his security ID, but he was unable to answer this. He was then 
asked to confirm the credit limit on his account, which he didnt seem to know. And he was 
also asked to confirm his age at his next birthday, which he struggled with, and took a 
considerable amount of time to answer - asking the advisor whether his answer was correct. 
I appreciate that when put on the spot, customers may not always be able to answer these 
questions instantly. But equally, given Mr Ws inability at the time, to answer what would be 
considered relatively straightforward questions, I dont think it was wrong for NatWest to 
restrict access to his account at this point, especially when they were already on notice of a 
potential security issue. So, I think that asking him to go into a branch with identification at 
this stage, given their initial concerns and the subsequent failure to pass security checks, 
was a reasonable request. 
Mr W has said that he thinks he failed the security questions due to NatWest holding 
incorrect information about him, but hes not provided any further evidence to support this 
argument, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the case. So, this hasnt altered my 
opinion. 
Mr W has also said that it was wrong of NatWest to encourage him to visit a branch during 
the pandemic. While I accept the timing wasnt ideal, equally, it wouldnt be right to allow 
Mr W to continue to transact on an account that initially had a security flag raised on it, and 
that he subsequently failed to pass caller verification checks on. And while I can see there 
were other ways to unblock the account without attending a branch, these were reserved for 
customers that were particularly vulnerable, and Mr W had not made NatWest aware of any 
such vulnerability, instead citing his working hours as the reason hed find it hard to attend. 
I appreciate that being locked out of his account would have been frustrating for Mr W, and 
that visiting a branch during the pandemic was less than ideal. But, equally, the measures 
that were in place were there to protect Mr W, and I dont think it was unreasonable for 
NatWest to exercise caution and prevent him from accessing his account, given the events 
set out above. So, for these reasons, while I appreciate disappointing for Mr W, I wont be 
upholding his complaint.
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman