DRN-4076815
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In early 2022, Mrs E was looking to get some building work done at her property and was 
recommended a builder by someone doing some other work for her. Mrs E met with the 
builder to discuss the work to be done, the builder provided a quote and Mrs E agreed for 
the work to go ahead. It was agreed the work would start the following week, and Mrs E 
would pay an initial amount upfront and then additional payments as the work progressed.
The builder started the work as agreed, and Mrs E made the payments as the work 
progressed. She also made a number of extra payments for other work it was agreed the 
builder would do. But the builder then stopped working at the property as frequently and 
Mrs E became concerned at the quality of some of the work that had been done. And 
ultimately the builder stopped responding to Mrs E and the work wasnt completed. Mrs E 
then reported the payments she had made to the builder to Lloyds as a scam and asked it to 
refund the money she had lost.
Lloyds investigated but said it felt this was a civil dispute between Mrs E and the builder, 
rather than a scam. And so it didnt agree to refund the payments she had made. Mrs E 
wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said they felt this was a civil dispute 
between Mrs E and the builder, as they didnt think the builder had set out from the 
beginning with the intention to scam Mrs E. So they didnt think Lloyds should have to refund 
the payments Mrs E had made. Mrs E disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refund the money Mrs E has 
lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam  as defined in the code.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Lloyds should refund the money Mrs E lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
The builder started the work at Mrs Es property as agreed, and appears to have worked 
there for a number of weeks and done a significant amount of work. Mrs E made payments 
for various stages of the work being completed, and the messages between her and the 
builder Ive seen show she was happy with the work being done and happy for the builder to 
do extra work more than a month after the work started. But Id usually expect a scammer to 
do as little work as possible in order to get the maximum possible profit in the shortest period 
of time. So the builder here appears to have done more work than Id expect from a 
scammer who never intended to complete the work.
The builder was also frequently communicating with Mrs E about the work being done and 
offering choices for which materials to be used. And the builder continued communicating 
with her, even after she had raised concerns and for some time after the last payment she 
made. And I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to have communicated so frequently or 
for so long after payments had stopped.
The bank the payments were sent to has also told us that it hasnt received any other scam 
reports against the account. But scammers usually target a number of people at once, in 
order to make as much money as possible before the scam is uncovered. So Id expect to 
see other scam reports to the same account around the same time if the builder was 
operating a scam. And from what Ive seen of the activity on the account the money was 
sent to, it appears to have been run as I would expect a legitimate account to have been.
Mrs E has mentioned that the builder brought their children to the property and 
photographed them with the equipment, and that they posted negative comments about 
other people involved in work at the property on social media. But while this may suggest the 
builder was acting unprofessionally, I dont think it necessarily suggests they intended to 
scam her.
Mrs E has also mentioned that the builder used headed paper for a different business he 
wasnt connected to mislead her into agreeing for him to do the work. But while this may be 
misleading, I dont think it fits the definition of a scam from the CRM code. And while Mrs E 
has also mentioned that some of the work the builder did was of a poor standard and had to 
be corrected or completed by other builders, this is also not the same as them setting out 
with the intention of scamming her. Agreements of many kinds will sometimes not be kept, 
but this does not mean that one party didnt intend to keep the agreement when it was made.
I appreciate how Mrs E feels about this case, and that the work at her property was left 
unfinished and she has had to pay for another builder to finish the work. But I must make a 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate 
business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt 
completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud 
Mrs E, or that she has been the victim of a scam here.So I dont think the payments Mrs E made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Lloyds should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs E has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. I also 
understand she has said she will find it difficult to pursue the builder directly. But I can only 
look at Lloyds responsibilities and cant hold them responsible simply because Mrs E has no 
clear alterative. So, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Lloyds responsible for the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman