DRN-3747315
The complaint
This complaints about an interest mortgage that Ms R holds with Lloyds Bank PLC. The 
essence of the complaint is that Lloyds wont extend the term of the part of the mortgage that 
has fallen due for repayment, or replace it with a lifetime mortgage.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 5 September 2022, I set out my provisional 
conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms R and Lloyds Im also 
aware that the current investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Ms R being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main 
points, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms R has a mortgage in several parts, that fall due for repayment between 2022 and 
2026. When the first part of the mortgage was approaching its term end, Ms R asked 
Lloyds for a lifetime mortgage to replace the interest-only mortgage. Lloyds declined, 
saying it wasnt affordable.
One of our investigators asked Lloyds informally if it would agree to extending the 
terms of the various parts of the mortgage to match the one that expires last, in 2026, 
if Ms R used funds in a pension policy to reduce the balance. Lloyds declined, saying 
that this would reduce Ms Rs future income still further. Another investigator looked 
at the case, and agreed with Lloydss position. Ms R asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to an 
entirely different conclusion from either of our investigators. By issuing this 
provisional decision, Im giving both parties the opportunity to comment before I 
finalise my decision.
My starting point here is that Ms R borrowed money from Lloyds, and under the term 
of her agreement with Lloyds, part of that debt has no fallen due for repayment. As 
yet, she hasnt done so. 
The reason that part of Ms Rs mortgage debt is now due is that she and Lloyds 
agreed at the outset on a term that would expire in 2022. But other things have 
happened since then. Further advances have been granted, all on an interest-only 
basis, and with later expiry dates than the original advance. Theres no mention in 
the evidence currently available to me as to what the intended repayment vehicles(s) 
was/were for the original advance or the subsequent further advances. Weve asked 
Lloyds about this and it told us it has no information to hand about possible 
repayment vehicles. Its said it may be able to retrieve some details from archive, but 
what that tells me in the meantime is that the existence or otherwise of a repayment 
vehicle has played no part in its current dialogue with Ms R about the first term end.
The problem with that is that unless, for every individual advance, there was express 
provision for a repayment vehicle such as an endowment policy, ISA or other 
financial instrument, it can safely be inferred that both parties entered in each 
agreement on the understanding that the various advances would be repaid either by 
selling the mortgaged property or re-mortgaging it. If that is the case, then Lloyds has 
no option but to harmonise the expiry dates of all the advances, by making all of 
them due for repayment in November 2026; thats the term end date of the last 
advance to expire. Ill explain why.
By issuing newer agreements with longer repayment dates, Lloyds has by default, 
put itself in a position where it must wait until the last debt to expire falls due before it 
can reasonably require Ms R to sell or re-mortgage her home. Its not possible to sell 
a mortgaged property  or re-mortgage it  and only pay off some of the money owed 
on the mortgage. If the property is sold or re-mortgaged, all of the debt had to be 
repaid so that the legal charge can be vacated. 
Lloyds cant fairly expect Ms R to sell or re-mortgage her home in order to repay 
money that the original agreement says is due now, because that would force her 
also to repay money borrowed under subsequent agreements that isnt due for 
repayment now. That would not be fair or reasonable. In order that theres no 
ambiguity, Lloyds must take this action in respect of all of the advances that make up 
Ms Rs aggregate mortgage debt. 
That doesnt mean Ms R should just do nothing for the next four years. Shell still 
need to pay the monthly interest on the whole mortgage, and meanwhile shell have 
until November 2026 to prepare for the point at which she has to repay all of the 
mortgage debt.
I gave the parties two weeks to respond to the provisional decision; both have done so 
already by accepting my proposed resolution to the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
and with both parties having accepted it, I wont be departing from my provisional 
conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering Lloyds Bank PLC to change the 
due date for repayment for all of the advances that make up Ms Rs interest-only mortgage 
to November 2026. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman