DRN-3697335
The complaint
Mr C has complained about advice he was given by his broker, Got You Covered Limited 
(GYC), when taking out a motor insurance policy.
 
All references to GYC include its agents. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr C went on a price comparison website to take out a motor insurance 
policy for a car he was going to be using but which he didnt own. When he answered other 
to the question whether he was the owner of the car he was told he had to call the broker. 
Mr C called GYC and said the car belonged to a friend but they had agreed that Mr C would 
insure and use it for a few months. GYC told Mr C that insurers would not agree to provide 
cover unless he owned the car and so it suggested that Mr C transfers the vehicle log book 
(V5C) into his name. After a short discussion the GYC adviser told Mr C that he would insure 
him that day and that Mr C could change the V5C later. 
In August 2021 Mr C was involved in an accident which rendered the car a total loss. He 
made a claim on the policy arranged by GYC. The insurer declined the claim because Mr C 
was not the owner of the car and said that had it known that this was the case it would not 
have agreed to insure him. 
Mr C complained to us and said he remembered very clearly that he had told GYC that he 
wasnt the owner and that it was GYC who told the insurer that he was. We referred the 
complaint to the insurer. It said this was a complaint about the sale and therefore should be 
against GYC. GYC responded to say that Mr C had agreed to transfer the V5C into his 
name. It added that Mr C was involved in two accidents prior to this one which resulted in 
third party claims being paid by the insurer. It said that the policy was eventually cancelled 
on 26 October 2021 due to non-payment of the premium by Mr C. 
Mr C complained to us and said that he wanted the total loss value of the car to be paid. One 
of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and he thought that it was GYCs error which led 
to the insurer being provided with incorrect information. He thought that GYC should pay the 
total loss value of the car which he valued at £10,027 less the £750 excess Mr C would have 
had to pay had his insurance claim been successful. He also thought GYC should pay Mr C 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. Our Investigator also asked GYC to 
write a letter which Mr C could present to his insurer so he could have his cancellation 
removed.
Mr C agreed with our Investigator but GYC agreed only in part. It agreed to pay the £400 
compensation but it said that if any payment was to be made for the total loss of the car, it 
would have to be to the finance company first, as the car was subject to a finance 
agreement, and then any balance paid to the owner. It said Mr C had no insurable interest 
as he did not own the car. 
Our Investigator amended his view to say that any total loss payment should be made to the 
finance company and any balance to the owner of the car and not to Mr C. Mr C didnt agree 
and said hed reached an agreement with the owner of the car which meant that the total 
loss payment should be paid to him. 
Our Investigator didnt change his view and said that under the terms of the policy Mr C had 
taken out, the insurer would have paid the finance company first and thereafter the owner of 
the car. So if we were to put Mr C in the position he should have been in had he had the 
benefit of his insurance policy this is what GYC should do. Mr C didnt agree and asked for 
an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. 
Like our Investigator I have also listened to the sales call between Mr C and GYC. I agree 
with our investigator that Mr C had made it very clear that the car did not belong to him. The 
GYC adviser told Mr C that the insurer would only agree to provide cover if he lived together 
with the owner of the car or alternatively if he changed the V5C over to his name. Mr C said 
that he did not think his friend would agree to that as the car didnt belong to Mr C though he 
was considering buying the car from his friend at some stage. The adviser then told Mr C 
that he could change the V5C later but that he would insure him the same day. He also told 
Mr C he could change the V5C into his name and then change it back into his friends name 
later.
In a later call the adviser told Mr C he would change the date of ownership to the day before 
the policy was taken out rather than 2019 as Mr C had stated in his application. So as 
ownership was more recent the price would go up.
I appreciate Mr C didnt indicate that he wouldnt change the V5C at some point but at the 
same time I think that GYC should not have proceeded with information it knew to be 
incorrect. So I think GYC was responsible for the insurer being provided with information that 
was incorrect, not Mr C. From what Ive seen, from GYCs response to our Investigator 
I dont think that it disputes this. 
Furthermore, the insurer said that had it known Mr C did not own the car it would not have 
insured him. It added that even if Mr C had changed the V5C over to show that he was the 
registered keeper it would have still not insured him as he wasnt the owner. So even if Mr C 
had changed the V5C over, as per GYCs advice, he would not have had a valid policy until 
he became the owner of the car. 
I agree with our Investigator that as GYCs error resulted in Mr Cs insurer declining this 
claim, he should be put back in the position he would have been in had GYC not made this 
error. As I said I dont think GYC should have proceeded to arrange this policy until either 
Mr C changed the V5C over and also bought the car or made another arrangement that 
would have been acceptable to the insurer. Mr C was very clear that he wasnt the owner of 
the car and that he wanted a policy that would cover him. So I think Mr C, if hed properly 
understood that a policy wasnt otherwise available to him, would have done what was 
necessary to make sure he was appropriately covered to drive the car. 
Though I understand there are policies out there that Mr C could have taken out without 
being the owner of the car, having listened to their conversations it doesnt seem to me that GYC would have been able to find one for him. And I dont think such policies are widely 
available. 
So I think it is more likely than not that had Mr C not been misadvised he would have 
proceeded through GYC or another broker and would have got a policy that was similar to 
the one he took out; but only after making sure hed done everything he had to do in order to 
be appropriately covered. But he didnt get the opportunity to do this so he was left with a 
policy that didnt cover him. I think GYC should compensate him for that. And, as far as I am 
aware, there was no other policy that covered Mr Cs friends car and which would cover the 
total loss claim. I think GYC should be responsible for that too as this resulted from its error.
 
As our investigator said the policy  and most motor policies for that matter  would have 
paid out the market value of the car i.e. the cost of replacing the car with one of similar 
make, model, age and specification. The insurer initially made an offer to Mr C for £8,980 but 
after Mr C queried it the insurer declined the claim. 
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor-trade guides most persuasive as they are based on extensive 
nationwide research of likely selling prices.
 
Our Investigator carried out valuations using the trade guides which came in between £9,595 
and £10,686. I wouldnt consider any one of the valuations to be an outlier. Our Investigator 
suggested that £9,277 (£10,027 minus the £750 excess) would be a fair offer in the 
circumstances and I agree. GYC has not disputed this.
I accept that as Mr C is not the owner of the car, he has no insurable interest in it. I therefore 
agree with GYC that any payment towards the total loss of the car should be made to the 
parties that do have an insurable interest in it. As the car was subject to a finance agreement 
those parties would be the finance company and the owner of the car.
 
As our Investigator pointed out most motor insurance policies we are aware of, including the 
one that was taken out for Mr C, contain a term which says that if the car is subject to a 
finance agreement and has been declared a total loss, the payment will be made to the 
finance provider. If there is anything left over it would then be paid to the owner. For these 
reasons I think it is fair and reasonable in these very specific circumstances that GYC settles 
the total loss of £9,277 firstly with the finance company and then with the owner. And I think 
it should also pay any interest which may have accrued from the date of the claim.
Mr C said he has an agreement with his friend so any payment should go to him. For the 
reasons I have already given, I dont think that should be the case and from what I 
understand Mr Cs friend is still the owner of the car and the person responsible for the 
finance. Mr C also said that his friend may choose to use part of the finance towards a new 
finance agreement for a new car. But as our investigator already explained any motor policy 
that Mr C would have taken out would have paid the total loss payment to the finance 
company and only if there was any money left over it would have paid the balance to the 
owner. It would not have paid only part of the finance outstanding to the finance company 
and paid the rest of the total loss payment to the owner. 
Our Investigator suggested and GYC agreed that a £400 compensation payment should be 
paid to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Having listened to the calls 
I think Mr C was very clear from the start as to the arrangement he had with his friend and 
I think if GYC had not misadvised him he would not have had to deal with the stress of the 
claim being declined and everything that followed since. So I agree that £400 compensation 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Mr Cs complaint was purely in relation to the total loss payment for the accident in 
August 2021. As I mentioned above the insurer said that Mr C was involved in two accidents 
prior to this one. And the insurer also told us that it has incurred some expenses in relation 
to all three accidents. It is not clear to me what action if any the insurer may decide to take 
but if Mr C is unhappy about it or about the cancellation he can complain directly to the 
insurer and then to us. Further, if Mr C thinks GYC is responsible for any action the insurer 
takes against him, he can make a further complaint about that too  to GYC in the first 
instance and then us. That is because I havent made any findings here about what liability 
might exist for any future or potential losses.
 
Finally, I agree with our Investigator that GYC should provide Mr C with a letter confirming 
that it provided information to his insurer which did not match the information Mr C had given 
to it when he took the policy out. I note Mr Cs insurer said that his policy was not cancelled 
for this reason but for non-payment of premiums. In any event I think a letter will be 
something Mr C could provide to future insurers. 
Putting things right
Got You Covered Limited must pay Mr C £400 compensation and issue him with a letter 
explaining it provided his insurer with information which wasnt correct. It must also pay the 
total loss payment of £9,277 to the finance provider and any balance to the vehicle owner 
plus any interest that may have accrued from the date of the claim to the date it makes 
payment.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I am upholding this complaint and direct Got You Covered Limited to 
pay Mr C £400 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. Got You Covered Limited 
should also provide Mr C with a letter confirming that it provided information to his insurer 
which did not match the information Mr C had given to it when he took the policy out and 
specifically that it noted that Mr C was the owner of the car and had taken ownership of the 
car on 28 March 2021 when Mr C said he did not own the car. Got You Covered Limited 
should pay the total loss payment of £9,277 to the finance company and any balance to the 
owner of the car subject to it obtaining the relevant evidence and information from Mr C 
and/or the finance company and/or the owner of the car. It should also pay any interest that 
may have accrued on the finance from the date of the claim to the date it makes payment. If 
the balance of finance agreement is for more than £9,277 it must only pay the interest that 
applied to the £9,277. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman