DRN-3660843
The complaint
Ms L has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) settled a claim 
for a vacuum cleaner under a warranty.
What happened
Ms Ls contacted D&G to make a claim under a warranty for a vacuum cleaner. D&G agreed 
to make a cash settlement to replace the vacuum cleaner. As Ms Ls vacuum cleaner, and 
others of that style, were no longer made by its manufacturer, D&G based the cash 
settlement on a model of the same brand, but of a different style. 
Ms L complained because she said D&G should have told her the previous vacuum cleaner 
had been retired and the cash settlement wouldnt allow her to buy a suitable and similar 
appliance on the open market. She wanted the premiums refunded from the date on which 
the vacuum cleaner was retired and an increased cash settlement to replace the appliance.
When D&G replied, it said the vacuum cleaner Ms L wanted as a replacement would be 
considered a large upgrade. It had performed a search to identify a suitable replacement and 
it had offered £249.99 as this was the amount it was sold for at multiple retailers.
When Ms L complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
D&G wasnt required to monitor the appliance market to identify when appliances were 
discontinued. The policy still provided cover for the appliance as described in the terms and 
conditions. He said D&G didnt need to refund the premiums. In terms of the cash 
settlement, having spoken to the vacuum cleaner manufacturer, he said D&G should settle 
the claim on the basis of a different vacuum cleaner and pay interest on any amount over 
what it had previously paid. He also said D&G should pay £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused to Ms L.
As D&G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ms L complained that D&G didnt tell her that her vacuum cleaner had been retired. She 
told this service D&G should have staff checking this information. I cant tell a business how 
to operate. But, regardless, I think the key issue here is whether Ms L continued to have 
cover under the policy after her vacuum cleaner ceased to be manufactured. Based on the 
terms and conditions, she did. Ms L was still able to make a claim under the warranty for 
issues with her vacuum cleaner, including for its repair or replacement. Ms L has said she 
wants the premiums refunded, but based on what Ive currently seen, I havent seen 
anything that persuades me she is entitled to a refund. 
Ms L also complained about the cash settlement offered to replace her vacuum cleaner. The 
policy said that where it replaced a product:
 we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same or similar make and technical 
specification.
Ms Ls had a corded cylinder vacuum cleaner. The manufacturer no longer made cylinder 
vacuum cleaners. D&G initially offered Ms L a replacement vacuum cleaner, most of which 
were upright corded vacuum cleaners. Ms L rejected the replacements offered, as she 
wanted a cordless vacuum cleaner because of her physical disability. So, D&G identified a 
cordless stick vacuum cleaner, for which it offered the equivalent in cash to settle the claim. 
Ms L didnt think the cordless vacuum cleaner D&G selected was fair as she said it was a 
lower technical specification than her current appliance.
This service isnt an expert on appliances, so when the complaint came to this service, our 
investigator spoke to the manufacturer to see what it said was the closest equivalent to Ms 
Ls vacuum cleaner. Our investigator then said he thought D&G should settle the claim on 
the basis of the vacuum cleaner stated by the manufacturer. Following this, D&G also spoke 
to the manufacturer to ask it to confirm whether the vacuum cleaner it had based the 
settlement on was reasonable. The manufacturer told D&G what it had offered was 
appropriate. This meant I had two differing views from the manufacturer. So, I asked the 
investigator to speak to the manufacturer again to discuss what was a reasonable equivalent 
based on the technical specification of Ms Ls vacuum cleaner. The manufacturer said, given 
the previous model was corded, that the equivalent replacement would be corded. It 
provided the details of two corded upright vacuum cleaners, which it said were the most 
suitable replacements.
Our investigator also asked the manufacturer why he was previously advised of a different 
model. The manufacturer thought this might have been because Ms Ls vacuum cleaner was 
top of the range and the one it had previously suggested was also top of the range. 
However, Im satisfied that isnt the basis on which the terms and conditions said claims 
would be settled and that D&G didnt need to base the cash settlement on what is now the 
top of the range model.
Having thought about the different views, I currently think the more recent view from the 
manufacturer about the closest replacement is the most reliable, which was that it should be 
an upright corded vacuum cleaner. This is because I think during that conversation the 
manufacturer seemed to have the clearest understanding that the key issue was the 
technical specification.
D&G offered a range of corded upright vacuum cleaners, all of which were from well-known 
brands, as well as one from the manufacturer of Ms Ls vacuum cleaner. I think that was 
reasonable. 
I think D&G then went beyond what it was required to do under its terms and conditions to 
try and accommodate Ms Ls request for a cordless appliance. Given D&G agreed to do this, 
I think the question is whether it was appropriate for D&G to use the specific cordless stick 
vacuum cleaner it did to decide the cash settlement. Im aware Ms L has said that what she 
has been offered doesnt match the technical specification of her previous model. But, from 
what Ive seen, I dont think its possible to match the specification at that manufacturer, as it 
doesnt make corded cylinder appliances anymore. So, I think there are always going to be 
differences.
When D&G spoke to the manufacturer it asked whether the cordless model it had offered 
was reasonable based on the technical specification of Ms Ls appliance. The manufacturer 
said it was a suitable replacement that was very powerful, the latest technology and lighter. 
The manufacturer also told D&G the model Ms L wanted would be an upgrade on what she previously had and that it no longer made it, although it did still support it. So, I think the 
model D&G selected was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Ms L has also said it was unfair for D&G to base its settlement on a particular 
model that would soon be obsolete. I havent seen anything that persuades me D&G was 
required to take into account when a currently available model would cease to be 
manufactured. But, looking at the manufacturers website, I note it still seems to be possible 
to buy the vacuum cleaner D&G based the settlement on, but it doesnt seem possible to buy 
the one Ms L wanted.
Ms L also complained that D&G paid her the settlement for the vacuum cleaner. However, I 
dont consider that unreasonable. I think its fair for a business to try and promptly settle a 
claim. 
So, based on all the information Ive currently seen, I think it was reasonable for D&G to pay 
a cash settlement based on the particular model it selected and that the cash settlement it 
made was reasonable.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware Ms L has found the claim to be stressful 
and difficult, but I think D&G tried to accommodate that the type of vacuum cleaner was no 
longer made by the manufacturer and that Ms L didnt want the closest equivalent. Ms L 
objected to what D&G offered, but I dont currently think that means it needs to pay her 
compensation. 
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 6 September 2022.
D&G agreed with my decision.
Ms L acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but said she wouldnt be able to 
respond at that time. She then wrote again and said D&G had initially offered her a different 
vacuum cleaner and the one that was now being offered was only offered by D&G at a later 
stage. Ms L also said a screenshot of a vacuum cleaner that D&G had provided wasnt the 
same as her vacuum cleaner and that she had paid considerably more for the vacuum 
cleaner than shown in the screenshot. She also said she wouldnt be able to comment 
further at that time due to some personal circumstances.
Our investigator contacted Ms L and said, based on her circumstances, I would allow her 
until 28 September 2022 to provide any further comments. Nothing was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments received from Ms L. When 
I made my provisional decision, I was aware that D&G had originally offered a different 
model vacuum cleaner. I was also aware of the details of the vacuum cleaner Ms L owned. I 
can also confirm that the price shown in the screenshot didnt affect or influence my decision 
about the appropriate model to base the settlement on.
Having thought about this complaint again, including Ms Ls comments, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require D&G to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman