DRN-2260028
The complaint
Mr C complains Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr C explained he had been at a party on the night of 7th February through to the morning of 
8th February 2020.  He thinks his drinks had been spiked because he has a vague 
recollection of being arrested by police officers, being taken to a police station and then 
being released just after 11.30 pm on 8th February.
The following day he discovered transactions had been made on his Monzo card which he 
didnt recall making.  His card was missing too.
When he first spoke to Monzo, he disputed transactions and attempted transactions from 
earlier on in the day  but having made enquiries himself with one of the retailers (A), he 
realised he had in fact made the earlier transactions and his arrest by officers must have 
been later in the day.
However, subsequent CCTV footage at another retailer (B) showed two unknown males 
using Mr Cs card  the same two males who Mr C says could be seen standing very close 
to him and looking over his shoulder as he was using his card in shop A.
Monzo rejected Mr Cs complaint about the transactions.  But it offered £25 for the delay in 
dealing with his complaint  so Mr C ame to this service.
Our investigator thought Monzo should refund the disputed transactions to Mr C.  She 
thought the evidence showed Mr C was in fact in police custody during the relevant time and 
so could not have made the transactions himself.  From the evidence available, she did not 
think he had authorised anyone else to make the transactions either  and did not think he 
had been grossly negligent in failing to keep his PIN and card safe.
Monzo did not agree.  In response to the investigators view, it accepted Mr C had not made 
the payments himself  but it insisted he had acted with gross negligence by giving his PIN 
away. 
The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say from the outset that I intend to uphold this complaint.
The starting point for consideration is authorisation.  If it appears to me that it is more likely 
than not that Mr C did not authorise these transactions, then I must uphold his complaint. I 
also remind myself that it is for Monzo to show Mr C authorised these payments  and not 
for Mr C to show he did not.   
Authority is a two-stage test  Monzo needs to show the transactions were authenticated as 
well as showing Mr C consented to them.
I can see from the evidence the payments were authenticated  and by this, I mean Mr C s 
genuine card and PIN were used.  However, I am not satisfied Mr C consented to the 
payments.
Everyone agrees Mr C didnt carry out the transactions himself  and Ive seen the CCTV 
images of two males using the card in shop B.  Mr C was unable to provide the CCTV from 
shop A because they refused to provide him with a copy.  So, I rely on Mr Cs account of 
what he saw on that footage.  I find him to be a credible witness and so accept what he says.
I accept he saw the same two males in shop A standing close to him and I accept that this 
was the point at which his PIN may have been compromised. I also accept he did not know 
either of them and did not knowingly share his PIN or card with them.
The term consent is not defined in law, so I am applying the normal meaning which is to 
give permission for something to happen. 
I dont think Monzo has been able to show Mr C consented to these payments  and so it 
follows, it cannot hold him liable for them.
Turning then to Monzos submissions Mr C was grossly negligent in that he gave these 
fraudsters his PIN.  I dont think thats right.  Gross negligent is a high bar.  It goes beyond 
alleging Mr C failed to exercise reasonable care.  According to the FCAs guidance on the 
PSRs 2017, he must be shown to have exercised a very significant degree of carelessness.
I am not satisfied Mr C was grossly negligent.  I dont think he gave his PIN and card the 
fraudsters.  I think they were able to take the card from his possession having watched him 
enter his PIN in shop A.
Finally, Ive looked at whether I think £25 is a fair offer for the poor service in this case as 
well as the distress and inconvenience caused- and I dont think it is.  I think the 
compensation should be increased by £100  so £125 in total.
Putting things right
To put things right, Monzo Bank Ltd:
- should refund the disputed transactions amounting to £563.29 
- pay interest on this amount at the rate of 8% from the date of the transaction until the 
date of settlement;
- pay Mr C £125 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman