DRN-2140007
The complaint
Mr S complains about what happened when he asked American Express Services Europe 
Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) to make a chargeback for him. He said he was very disappointed 
in the service he received, especially as he pays for the card.
What happened
Mr S bought a ticket for an event. He told us the ticket was misrepresented as being much a 
better seat than it was. But he bought them just before the event, and didnt find this out until 
he went inside. Once inside, he wasnt able to leave to remonstrate.
Mr S tried to get the merchant to help afterwards, but it wasnt willing to assist. So Mr S 
asked Amex to make a chargeback request. Mr S said he wasnt able to upload the 
documents AmEx needed due to a size restriction. And he said he thought he shouldve 
been able to claim under AmExs refund protection. He pays an annual fee for the card, and 
he expected much better service from AmEx. He thought that even if he wasnt able to get 
his money back for the ticket, AmEx should pay some compensation for the poor service it 
had provided to him. 
AmEx said it had closed Mr Ss first chargeback requests, because it didnt receive any 
supporting documentation. Mr S complained that he hadnt been able to upload any 
documents, and AmEx offered him 5,000 reward points to say sorry. Mr S turned that down. 
Amex said it opened a new chargeback request for him, but it still didnt get any documents. 
So it closed the request. AmEx didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Amex also said that it wouldnt have been able to prove that what Mr S purchased was 
different to what he actually received. 
Our investigator said that this chargeback was very unlikely to be upheld without evidence to 
support the dispute. So it wasnt unreasonable for Amex not to have gone ahead with this. 
And our investigator didnt think that the purchase Mr S made qualified for AmExs refund 
protection. Our investigator didnt think that AmEx had to do more than it had already done, 
which was to offer Mr S 5,000 reward points. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he did upload the documents, but was told they couldnt be 
opened. And when he tried to resend them his dispute was closed. He didnt upload 
documents for the second dispute because the system wouldnt let him. He wanted us to 
look at all the inconvenience this had caused him. 
Amex said that its notes suggested Mr S had just refused to send the documents it needed. 
And it didnt have recordings of these calls any more, so it couldnt listen to them.
Our investigator said that there wasnt any evidence to say that Mr S had called AmEx again, 
after hed had problems with the documents the second time. So she hadnt changed her 
mind. 
Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I know that Mr S pays to have this card, and I understand that he thinks that, because of this, 
AmEx shouldve done more to help him. But all our service can do is look at what AmEx did, 
and see if it was fair and reasonable, in the context of the claim he wanted to make. 
The card Mr S has offers purchase and refund protection. But, as our investigator said, 
neither of these covers the sort of purchase Mr S made. 
Amex said it would make a chargeback request for Mr S. In the end it didnt make the 
request, because it never got any documents from Mr S. He says this is because the file size 
limits meant he couldnt upload the documents. But he also said that AmEx told him he could 
send documents by post. I think its likely, from the brief notes we do have, that Mr S didnt 
want to do this. 
I can see that AmEx will only accept relatively small files for uploads. Mr S wanted to send 
AmEx pictures to show what had happened, so I can understand why he ran into difficulties. 
But our service cant make AmEx provide a better file uploading system. Not all banks offer 
any system for sending documents online, and they dont have to. Amex wouldve accepted 
documents by post. 
I do also think that its unlikely that Mr Ss complaint wouldve succeeded in any event. I can 
understand Mr S being upset that he went to the trouble of making a claim, then didnt get 
anywhere. But our service has had the benefit of seeing extra documentation, which AmEx 
didnt get. And, having seen this, there just isnt anything to show that Mr S was told 
misleading information when he bought the disputed ticket. So I also think that this 
chargeback was unlikely to succeed. 
In these circumstances, Im sorry to have to tell Mr S that I dont think his complaint should 
be upheld. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman