DRN-2801921
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has changed its policy and will no longer make 
international transfers for sums over £5,000 on receipt of written instructions. 
  
What happened
Mr R has held an account with Lloyds for many years and lives abroad. Lloyds has 
previously accepted written instructions Mr R sent to make international transfers. But Lloyds 
says, following a change in its policy, it can now only accept transfer requests made either in 
person or via its online banking service. 
Mr R complained but Lloyds didnt agree an error had been made. Lloyds said it could 
accept transfer requests for below £5,000 in writing and over the phone but for sums of a 
higher figure Mr R would need to make the request online. Lloyds final response gave Mr R 
details of how to set up online banking. Lloyds also gave Mr R information about how to 
close his account. Lloyds also paid Mr R £75 to apologise for the delay in contacting him.
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and has told us he just wants Lloyds to make a 
one off transfer, above the £5,000 transfer limit. An investigator looked at Mr Rs case but 
didnt agree Lloyds shouldve told Mr R about the change in its process. However, the 
investigator said Lloyds had given Mr R conflicting information and asked it to pay him a 
further £100. Mr R asked to appeal and said Lloyds shouldve made him aware that it had 
changed its policy on making international transfers because its aware he lives abroad. Mr 
R also said hed had to sell an asset which led to a loss of £2,000. As Mr R ask to appeal, 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R lives abroad and I can see Lloyds decision to change the way it works has impacted 
him. Previously, Mr Rs branch was able to act on his written instructions and make transfers 
over £5,000. But Lloyds has changed the way it works and says its no longer able to offer 
that service to its customers. Whilst I understand why Mr R has asked Lloyds to transfer 
funds on receipt of a letter, I cant force it to do something that isnt in line with its normal 
approach and policies. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence of its international transfer policy and I can see that it wont 
accept written instructions for transfers over £5,000. That applies to all Lloyds customers, so 
Mr R hasnt been singled out. And Lloyds is entitled to decide how it operates and what limits 
to put in place. 
The last time Mr R requested a transfer of this nature was in 2016, so I think its reasonable 
to say its not something he does in the normal course of his day to day banking. I 
understand Mr R feels he shouldve been notified of the change in policy and wouldve made 
other arrangements. But all businesses change the way they operate over time. I wouldnt 
expect account holders to be notified of each and every change Lloyds makes to the way it 
operates. And, as Ive said above, as this isnt a service Mr R uses often, I wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to specifically notify him when the process changed. 
Lloyds has provided information about how Mr R can sign up for online banking which will 
allow him to make larger international transfers. Lloyds needs to send Mr R online banking 
credentials to activate his internet banking facility. I appreciate the current climate means 
there are postal issues in Mr Rs country of residence, but thats not something Lloyds can 
control. 
I also note Lloyds told Mr R he could arrange withdrawals of under £5,000 over the phone or 
in writing. Mr R has told us he doesnt want to incur international call costs required to 
transfer sufficient funds for his needs. But if Mr R is in urgent need of funds, there is an 
option to transfer up to £5,000 at a time. 
Lloyds has now given Mr R details of the different options available to either activate online 
banking and transfer funds or close his account. Im satisfied Lloyds has treated Mr R fairly 
in this case, so Im not telling it to do anything else in terms of the transfer requests hes 
made. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Rs case in part and asked Lloyds to increase the award by £100 
because it had given conflicting information. I agree that some of the information Lloyds 
gave Mr R about his transfer requests was confusing and I agree that the £100 the 
investigator has recommended fairly reflects the impact of that on Mr R. As a result, Im 
going to uphold Mr Rs complaint in part and tell Lloyds to increase the compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by £100, taking the total award to £175. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr R an 
additional £100 (taking the total award to £175).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman