DRN-3069832
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) hasnt paid 
a cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an annual travel insurance policy as part of their home insurance policy. 
The insurer was UKI. Mr and Mrs W had had the policy since 2013 and it renewed annually. 
The relevant period of cover was between 16 January 2020 and 15 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs W had booked a holiday abroad between 5 and 19 August 2020. The airline 
cancelled the flights on 24 June 2020, and they got a refund for them. Mr and Mrs W were 
due to pay the final instalment on the accommodation on 6 July 2020, but instead, they 
cancelled the holiday before that on 25 June 2020. Mr and Mrs W want UKI to pay the 
deposit they lost on the accommodation.
UKI said that as Mr and Mrs W had cancelled the holiday more than 28 days before the 
departure date, this wasnt covered by the policy.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that the cancellation section of the policy 
didnt cover claims due to an airline cancelling a flight. This section did provide cover in the 
event that the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel, as long as 
the trip was cancelled in the 28 days before departure.
Our investigator noted that Mr and Mrs W cancelled the holiday more than 28 days before 
the departure date. And in any event, had they waited to cancel within the 28 days, the 
FCDO advice changed to Mr and Mrs Ws intended destination  it was exempt from it from 
4 July 2020 onwards. So, he didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in declining the claim, 
as it wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Our investigator was also satisfied that UKI had considered the claim in line with the correct 
terms and conditions, and he thought it was more likely than not that these were sent to 
Mr and Mrs W during annual renewal.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, they said that:
There were no flights from the UK to the city they were due to fly on 5 August 2020, 
so they wouldnt have been able to buy an alternative flight.
They only ever received the original policy terms and conditions, which didnt mention 
the 28 day term.
UKI hasnt acted fairly or reasonably in declining the claim due to the airline 
cancelling their flight in the circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic.
Mr and Mrs W have since found later policy terms, but these dont mention the 28 day term 
either.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say they never received the updated terms and conditions on their travel 
insurance policy. But Im mindful that Mr and Mrs W have found an updated policy booklet, 
even if its not the latest one, contrary to what they previously said. UKI has sent us a 
screenshot which it says shows that updated documents were sent out to Mr and Mrs W 
each year. I can also see the renewal notice letter Mr and Mrs W have sent us says that UKI 
will send new documents after the policy has renewed.
Overall, I agree with our investigator that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on 
the terms and conditions that applied for the relevant period of cover.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of 
risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive looked at the 
relevant terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. 
The Cancellation section of the policy says UKI will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled 
for one of the following reasons:
1 Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of you, your travelling 
companion, a close relative or anyone outside your home area that you had planned to 
stay with.
2 Court cases and quarantine: you, your travelling companion or anyone outside your 
home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined or called for jury service or as a 
witness in a court and a court official has refused to postpone it.
3 Unemployment: you or your travelling companion is made redundant, or have a self-
employed contracted terminated early, and is registered for a Jobseekers Agreement with 
the Department for Work and Pensions.
4 Armed forces and emergency services: As a member of the British Armed Forces or 
Emergency Services, you or your travelling companion has authorised leave cancelled 
due to an unexpected emergency.
5 Fire, storm or flood: you or your travelling companion has to stay at their home as a 
result of it being seriously damaged by fire, storm, floor or due to a burglary in the seven 
days before departure on your trip.
6 Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the seven 
days before your departure on your trip.
7 Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in a burglary in the seven days before 
your departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8 FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your intended destination comes into force after the start date or renewal 
date of this insurance, or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later and you 
cancel your trip in the 28 days before your departure.When Mr and Mrs W cancelled their holiday on 25 June 2020, the FCDO advised against all 
but essential international travel. But as they werent due to travel until 5 August 2020, they 
cancelled more than 28 days before departure. So, I dont think their claim is covered under 
the above policy terms.
That said, Ive also thought if it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay the claim  for 
example, if there was no material difference whether Mr and Mrs W cancelled outside or 
within the 28 days. But I think there was a material difference, as from 4 July 2020 onwards, 
Mr and Mrs Ws intended destination was exempt from the FCDO advice against travel, and 
it remained so during the intended holiday dates. That means they couldve still travelled, 
and a cancellation claim wouldnt have been covered under the above terms. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs W mightve struggled to find alternative flights, but I dont think that 
means it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to pay their claim outside the policy terms and 
conditions.
Ive also looked to see whether Mr and Mrs Ws claim is covered by any other section of the 
policy. But having done so, I dont think the circumstances fall within any of the cover 
provided by the policy.
Overall, Mr and Mrs Ws holiday wasnt cancelled for any of the insured events outlined in 
the policy terms and conditions. That means that I dont think UKI has done anything wrong 
by declining their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman