DRN-3619197
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd are holding him liable for a transaction he says he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr As Monzo card was used to make a purchase which Mr A says he 
didnt authorise. The transaction was made using Apple Pay on a device secondary to 
Mr As trusted device registered with Monzo.
Mr A received a notification on his phone to approve his card being registered to Apple Pay. 
Mr A approved this notification, aware that he had recently set up his card through Apple 
Pay. Following the approval, Monzo sent Mr A a text message to let him know his card had 
been successfully set up.
Around 25 minutes later, through Apple Pay, Mr As card was used to make a transaction at 
a store. Mr A received a notification confirming the transaction so decided to freeze his card. 
A few minutes after this, Mr A reported the transaction with Monzo.
Monzo held Mr A liable for the transaction  they explained their technical evidence 
suggested that it wasnt possible for the transaction to be authorised by anybody other than 
Mr A. Our investigator reviewed things and didnt agree. In summary, he said there were a 
few transactions in the lead up to the disputed transaction where Mr As card details could 
have been compromised. And he didnt think Mr A had been grossly negligent when 
approving the Apple Pay notification, as he did so in good faith knowing hed recently set up 
Apple Pay through his own phone. On balance, the investigator didnt feel there was enough 
evidence to hold Mr A liable.
Monzo disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review things. Therefore, the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced case and I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill 
need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely happened in the 
circumstances. 
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr A liable for the 
disputed payment if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made it or 
authorised it. If Mr A made the disputed transaction himself, it wouldnt be fair to ask Monzo 
to refund it. But Mr A says he wasnt responsible for the payment in dispute. So, the key 
question for me to consider is whether Monzo has provided enough evidence to hold Mr A 
responsible. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund the unauthorised payment if they can prove Mr A 
authorised the transaction, but its not enough for Monzo to say that the use of Apple Pay 
conclusively proves that the payment was authorised. Unless Monzo can show that consent 
has been given, they have no authority to make the payment or to debit Mr As account and 
any such transaction must be regarded as unauthorised. 
To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transaction. It shows 
that the transaction was authenticated using Apple Pay  which Mr A admits to approving a 
short while before the transaction was made. In summary, Monzo say they can hold Mr A 
responsible because theres no plausible explanation for how the payment was made 
without Mr As involvement. They contend that its unlikely that anyone other than him could 
have used his phone to authorise the Apple Pay transactions and as he wasnt under 
pressure from a scammer; and theres no clear evidence when his card details were 
compromised he must have been involved. 
Ive seen Monzos internal notes which clearly confirms the circumstances of this complaint 
relates to a likely Apple Pay scam. I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Mr A liable for 
the transaction on the basis that he cant pin-point when his card details were compromised. 
I appreciate this makes things difficult  it would be simpler of course if Mr A recalled being 
scammed. However, as scams are becoming more sophisticated, it isnt unusual for victims 
to be unaware of when they are being tricked into giving information. Therefore, this point 
alone, doesnt persuade me that Mr As card details werent compromised  and as the 
investigator has rightly pointed out, they could have been compromised without Mr As 
knowledge at all through data linked to transactions he did authorise leading up to the 
transaction in question. Its also not for Mr A to prove when his card details were 
compromised or when he was scammed; but instead, its up to Monzo to provide the 
evidence to show Mr A knowingly consented to the payment.
Mr A confirms he approved the Apple Pay notification he received on his phone to set up the 
Apple Pay on a secondary device. While I recognise this in itself puts Mr A in a vulnerable 
position, Mr A has provided a plausible and consistent story as to why he approved the 
notification. Mr A has explained he thought the approval pop up related to him setting up 
Apple Pay recently on his own phone; and didnt think anything untoward. Ive thought 
carefully about Monzos response to this  they say as Mr A wasnt under pressure from a 
scammer he should have thought carefully about the notification and not approved it. I think 
Monzo are setting a high bar here  when deciding cases such as this, its important to 
recognise the full circumstances of what had happened. And I dont think its unreasonable 
for somebody to think a notification relating to an activity they did set up themselves a short 
while before needed approving. I appreciate a warning message was also displayed  but as 
Mr A set up Apple Pay himself beforehand, I dont find his story unrealistic. I also havent 
seen anything to show that Mr A would have been aware from the notification that he was 
setting up his card on a second Apple Pay wallet  if this message was more prominent, I 
could understand Monzos approach better. Therefore, I dont think Mr A approving a 
notification on his own device, which he genuinely thought was for something he had already 
approved on his own device, persuades me that Mr A authorised and consented to the 
transaction in question or the setup of Apple Pay on a secondary device unbeknown to him.  
Mr A also took the actions Id expect him to when he found out about the disputed 
transaction. He immediately froze his card, and contacted Monzo within minutes to dispute 
the transaction  this would therefore avoid any further transactions being made without 
Mr As consent which again, doesnt bring me to believe that Mr A was involved in the fraud 
himself as it was a relatively small transaction which was carried out.
I accept this is not a clear-cut case and Monzo have rightly raised several points that could 
suggest Mr A authorised the transaction himself. However, having considered Mr As version of events, and the circumstances of this complaint alone, Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not Mr A didnt authorise the disputed transaction. And therefore, I think Monzo should 
reimburse Mr A for the disputed amount. 
I dont consider Monzo are entitled to make any deductions to the refunds for contributory 
negligence. Contributory negligence carries a high bar and I havent seen evidence to 
persuade me that Mr A is at fault for the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
In summary, I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Mr A consented to the 
payment in question being made. Im more persuaded by Mr As version of events and 
therefore dont find that he should be held liable for the transaction. So, Monzo should refund 
the amount of £299.95 and pay interest at 8% simple interest to recognise the loss of use of 
the funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Monzo 
Bank Ltd should:
Refund Mr A £299.95.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on this amount. Monzo should calculate this from 
the date the disputed transaction was made and up until the date they refund it to 
Mr A. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo Bank Ltd to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Monzo should give Mr A a certificate showing how much 
tax is taken off if Mr A asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman