DRN-2707965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about Vitality Health Limiteds decision to apply an exclusion on their 
private health insurance policy which led to a claim being declined. Theyre also unhappy 
with the service they received from Vitality throughout the claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B transferred their private health insurance policy to Vitality on 4 August 2020. 
Vitality accepted the policy on continued personal medical exclusions terms. These said that 
if the previous policy was underwritten on moratorium terms (as it was here), Vitality would 
apply its own moratorium rules. It would also ask some questions about Mr and Mrs Bs 
health to determine if it needed to apply any additional personal medical exclusions to the 
cover.
Vitality asked Mr and Mrs B if in the last three years theyd experienced symptoms or 
received any advice or treatment for any condition. Mr and Mrs B didnt declare any 
conditions or symptoms.
Mr B had some routine blood tests on 7 August 2020 which showed elevated liver enzymes, 
and he was asked to go to the Accident & Emergency department (A&E). No diagnosis was 
reached at this point, and Mr B went back to the hospital on 17 August 2020. The issue with 
his liver continued, so Mr B was referred to a Hepatology clinic, and hed be monitored until 
then.
Mr and Mrs B got in touch with Vitality on 17 August 2020 as they wanted to pursue further 
investigations privately as well. Vitality said that due to the time theyd had the policy, theyd 
need to complete a claim form so Vitality could fully assess the condition. Mr B, together with 
his GP, completed a claim form for abnormal liver function test.
Mr B described his symptoms on the claim form as stomach pains, reduced appetite, nausea 
and weight loss, and the GPs notes on the form reflected these. The GP noted the first time 
Mr B had consulted about these symptoms was on 23 July 2020.
Vitality acknowledged the claim form on 19 August 2020 and said it would be reviewed 
urgently. Mr and Mrs B chased Vitality on 29 August 2020 as they hadnt heard anything. 
Theyd already booked an appointment with a specialist for Mr B for 1 September 2020, as 
theyd expected Vitality to get back to them before that.
Mr and Mrs B spoke with a manager at Vitality on 3 September 2020. He apologised for the 
delays and offered to send Mr and Mrs B a hamper as a way of apology. The manager also 
explained Vitality needed more information from Mr Bs GP due to the discrepancy of 
information in Mr and Mrs Bs application and claim forms.
When Mr Bs GP hadnt received anything from Vitality, Mr and Mrs B got in touch with 
Vitality again. The manager responded on 11 September 2020 and said there had been a 
mistake and Vitality hadnt contacted Mr Bs GP until 10 September 2020. He offered Mr and 
Mrs B £100 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr Bs GP responded to Vitalitys questions about the appointment on 23 July 2020, and the 
GP said Mr B was given medication on 3 August 2020. Following this, Vitality wrote to 
Mr and Mrs B on 15 September 2020 and explained the discrepancy of information. 
In short, Vitality said that it looked like Mr B had sought advice on his symptoms and 
received medication shortly before the policy started, and these shouldve been disclosed 
when taking out the policy. Had Mr B done so, Vitality says it wouldve added an exclusion 
on the policy for any further investigations or treatment due to loss of appetite/weight, 
nausea and related conditions. Vitality asked for Mr and Mrs Bs comments on this.
Mrs B responded to say that the questions about Mr and Mrs Bs health and medical history 
were answered honestly by her. And at the time she wasnt aware Mr B had been prescribed 
with medication because at that point he was feeling well. Mrs B said they didnt know there 
was anything medically wrong with Mr B. Mrs B also said that had they known Vitalitys 
decision on this, they wouldve followed a different route some weeks ago.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled their policy with Vitality on 3 October 2020.
Vitality responded to Mrs Bs email a month later, so on 15 October 2020. It apologised for 
the delay in responding. Vitality said it would ask Mr Bs GP for comments about the 
consultation and medication prescribed on 3 August 2020.
Mrs B arranged a response from the GP and forwarded this to Vitality on 20 October 2020. 
The GP said the medication was prescribed for a presumed diagnosis of gastritis. Vitality 
acknowledged this on 28 October 2020 and said it would be referred to the underwriters.
Mrs B chased for a response a few times, and Vitality finally responded on 30 November 
2020. Vitality thought that based on the GPs response, it was reasonable to assume that 
Mr Bs symptoms were ongoing when the policy was transferred and the medical questions 
asked. And because no definitive diagnosis had been made at that time, Vitality wouldve 
excluded the ongoing symptoms from cover. 
So, Vitality confirmed the exclusion it had referred to on 15 September 2020 applied  it 
would amend the terms effective from inception. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with Vitalitys 
response, so it issued a final response letter on 14 January 2021.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought the questions Vitality 
asked when Mr and Mrs B bought the policy were clear. And based on everything hed seen, 
they shouldve answered differently than they did. This wouldve meant Vitality wouldve 
excluded cover for the symptoms Mr B had been experiencing, and therefore there was no 
cover for the claim. Our investigator thought the compensation Vitality had offered for service 
issues was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said that the appointment on 
23 July 2020 was over the phone with the GP, and Mr B picked up the medicine he was 
prescribed during that appointment on 3 August 2020. But the blood tests that suggested 
something more serious didnt take place until after the policy was already live. Mr and Mrs B 
also reiterated how appalling and unprofessional they found Vitalitys handling of the claim.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs serious health condition. Its clear that this has been a 
stressful time for both Mr and Mrs B. And naturally they wanted to find the cause of the 
issues Mr B was having, and treatment for his condition, as soon as possible.
Ill first consider Vitalitys decision to retrospectively apply a personal exclusion on the policy 
from inception, which led to the claim being declined. Ill then address Mr and Mrs Bs 
concerns about the service Vitality has given them throughout the claim.
Firstly, while Vitality accepted the policy on continued personal medical exclusions terms 
(and those terms being moratorium ones), I dont think Vitality did anything wrong by asking 
about any recent health issues Mr or Mrs B mightve had. Its not unusual for insurers to 
check if there are any ongoing issues that they might decide to exclude from cover.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Vitality says Mr and Mrs B didnt answer the below question correctly when they took out the 
policy  so, in effect, its saying they failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
In the last three years, have you or any person to be insured experienced symptoms, or 
received any advice from a healthcare professional, or received treatment or have treatment 
planned or expected (including prescribed or over the counter medication)?
Mr and Mrs B answered this question no, but Vitality thinks they shouldve answered yes. 
This was because Mr B had experienced symptoms and received medication just shortly 
before they bought the policy. Vitality referred to Mr Bs appointment with his GP on 23 July 
2020 and that he was prescribed medication on 3 August 2020. This was a day before the 
policy started.
I think the question Vitality asked was clear and I think Mr and Mrs B failed to take 
reasonable care when they answered the question as no. I accept that they didnt at that 
point know how serious Mr Bs condition would become. But that doesnt change the fact 
that Mr B had experienced symptoms and hed received medication.Vitality has explained that if Mr and Mrs B had answered the above question as yes, it 
wouldve asked them more questions. Vitality says its reasonable to consider Mr Bs 
symptoms were ongoing when the policy was bought because hed received medication just 
the day before. But because there was no definitive diagnosis yet, Vitality wouldve added a 
personal exclusion on the policy for those symptoms. Vitalitys underwriting team has 
explained the exclusion wouldve said the following:
Benefit will not be payable under this plan for any further investigations or treatment due to 
the condition described as loss of appetite/weight, nausea, and related conditions.
I think Vitality has shown that its more likely than not that it wouldve offered Mr and Mrs B 
the policy on different terms, had there not been a misrepresentation. That means Im 
satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Vitality hasnt suggested the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  the onus would 
be on Vitality to show this. So, I think the representation was careless.
When theres a careless misrepresentation, and the insurer wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, CIDRA allows the insurer to apply those terms retrospectively. This is as if 
the policy was entered into with those terms. And thats what Vitality has done here.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong by applying a 
personal exclusion on the policy from inception. This meant that there was no cover for the 
investigations and treatment resulting from the symptoms Mr B had been experiencing. So, 
Mr Bs claim wasnt covered.
Ive then thought about the timeline of events, and if Vitality handled everything as it should 
have. The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly.
The claim form is dated 17 August 2020. And Vitality told Mr and Mrs B on 15 September 
2020 of its intention to apply an exclusion on the policy. Mr and Mrs B have explained that if 
Vitality had acted much quicker than it did, they wouldve been able to make other 
arrangements to make sure Mr B received a diagnosis and treatment earlier.
The consultant appointment that Mr and Mrs B had booked took place on 1 September 2020 
 so, this wasnt impacted by any delays. However, its clear that there was a delay between 
3 and 10 September 2020 when Vitality didnt progress things. But I think what its already 
offered Mr and Mrs B fairly compensates for this delay. 
I can also see that Vitality explained the discrepancy of information to Mr and Mrs B on 
3 September 2020, so they knew the reason for the delay in confirming if the claim was 
covered. And due to the discrepancy, I dont think was unreasonable for Vitality to seek more 
information before confirming whether the claim was covered or not.
I dont think the further delays in Vitalitys responses after 15 September 2020 had a 
significant impact on Mr or Mrs B. This is because at this point they were made aware that 
Vitality was intending to apply an exclusion on the policy. Mr and Mrs B also cancelled the 
policy on 3 October 2020, so any treatment after that wouldnt have been covered anyway. 
So, while Vitality didnt formally decline the claim until 30 November 2020, I think it had given 
Mr and Mrs B enough information on 15 September 2020 to allow them to seek other routes 
for Mr B. It also looks like this is what they did, as they cancelled the policy on 3 October 
2020.As Ive explained above, I think there were times when Vitality didnt do everything right. And 
I can see that Mr and Mrs B had to chase Vitality for a response on several occasions. But 
taking everything into account, I think Vitalitys offer of £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, and a hamper, is a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances. So, I dont think theres anything else Vitality needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that the offer Vitality Health Limited has made 
to settle Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman