DRN-3814389
The complaint
Mrs V complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LGI) and the way theyve 
handled her home insurance claim as well as the settlement offer theyve made.
What happened
Mrs V held a home insurance policy, underwritten by LGI. Unfortunately, in March 2022, 
there was a fire at Mrs Vs home. So, she contacted LGI to make a claim.
LGI instructed a claims consultant, who Ill refer to as P, to manage the claim on their 
behalf. And alongside this, they instructed an industry expert, who Ill refer to as X, to 
attend Mrs Vs home and compile a report to set a schedule of works.
But Mrs V was unhappy with the way P managed her claim. LGI addressed this complaint, 
asking P to set a new point of contact as well as offering Mrs V £50. Mrs V accepted this, 
and this complaint was closed. LGI also addressed a second complaint about delays in the 
claim process around this time, with another £350 being paid.
But Mrs V remained unhappy, and she felt a games console had been stolen from her home 
by X while they were completing the necessary cleaning works. So, she reported this to the 
police and X left Mrs Vs home without completing the works they intended. And after this, 
Mrs V challenged the work LGI had agreed for X to complete, as well as they way they 
intended to settle her claim. LGI and Mrs V were unable to come to an agreement and so, 
Mrs V raised a complaint.
Mrs V was unhappy with how long the claim had been ongoing without a conclusion. She 
explained how this had impacted her health and the stress it had caused. Mrs V also 
complained about the settlement offer LGI had put forward, raising particular concerns about 
the work proposed to her kitchen and the upstairs bed frames and carpets. So, she wanted 
her claim to be paid in full, with replacements where she felt necessary and documented in 
the independent report she obtained.
LGI responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They agreed there had been delays 
during the claim and that Xs initial report, and schedule of work, seemed to have certain 
items missing. So, they offered to pay Mrs V £700 to recognise the impact this had caused. 
But LGI explained that, for them to consider an increase in settlement, they would need to 
complete another inspection to consider the damage to the kitchen and Mrs Vs concerns 
about the upstairs beds and carpets, alongside additional items that Mrs V wanted to be 
included in her payment. And without being able to do so, they thought their current 
settlement offer was fair.
LGI also explained exactly what Mrs Vs policy provided cover for, and that replacement of 
sets was an optional extra that hadnt been taken. They also explained that when 
considering a settlement, they acted in line with the policy when calculating this alongside 
discounts that were available to them through their suppliers and approved contractors. Mrs 
V remained unhappy with this response and so, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised it had been 
accepted by LGI that there had been delays and communication breakdowns during the 
claim. But they thought the total offer of £1,100 made by LGI was a fair one to recognise 
these and the impact they created. And while they recognised Mrs V remained unhappy with 
the settlement, and the works that she felt needed completing, they thought LGI were fair to 
ask for another inspection to be carried out so they could consider Mrs Vs requests. And as 
Mrs V had refused this inspection, they didnt think LGI were unreasonable when not 
considering any further costs at this time.
Mrs V didnt agree. She thought it was clear Xs report contained several mistakes and so, 
she didnt think LGI were fair to rely on this when calculating her settlement. And she didnt 
think she was being unreasonable when refusing another inspection by X, considering the 
criminal matter relating to the theft of her childs games console. Our investigator 
commented on this, explaining X were the industry expert LGI used and so, without a further 
inspection, they didnt think LGI were unfair to support their current settlement offer. Mrs V 
remained unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the compensation offer made by LGI is a reasonable one that fairly 
addresses the complaints Mrs V has raised. Ive focused my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs V. I dont doubt the 
disruption and upset Mrs V wouldve been caused by the fire in her home. Its not disputed 
that its caused significant damage to her property and led to her needing to be rehoused in 
alternative accommodation while certain works were completed. I recognise Mrs V has 
children and needing to navigate this significant disruption with children to provide for would 
no doubt have been stressful and upsetting and I appreciate the impact its had on Mrs Vs 
mental health. 
It's not in dispute that there have been avoidable delays during the claim process. And its 
not in dispute that the initial report and schedule of works X compiled missed certain items, 
which led to a breakdown in communication between Mrs V and LGIs appointed claims 
handler, P. As these aspects of the complaint arent in dispute, I dont intend to discuss them 
further. Instead, I will reflect and comment upon these when I think about what LGI have 
offered to put them right.
Instead, my decision focuses on the main points that remain in dispute. And from what Ive 
seen, these centre around LGIs settlement offer currently put to Mrs V. Before I explain why 
Ive reached the decision I have, I think itd be useful for me to explain what my role is, and 
what Im able to consider. It is not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I dont have the 
expertise to do so. So, its not my role to speculate on how I think the claim should be settled 
or what I think should be included with the settlement offer.
Instead, its my role to consider the settlement offer LGI have put forward and crucially, how 
theyve arrived at this offer, to decide whether I think they have acted fairly and reasonably. 
And having done so, I think they have.
I can see that LGIs current total settlement offer, for both the Building and Contents aspect 
of the claim, comes to just over £50,000 less the excess applicable to Mrs Vs policy. This offer includes payments for a variety of items and other services and I dont intend to discuss 
them all. Instead, Ive focused on the disputes that remain outstanding. So, while I do 
recognise Mrs V raised concerns about the mattresses and clothing for example, I can see 
replacements for these are included within the settlement offer provided. And so, I wont be 
commenting on them specifically.
The terms of the policy Mrs V held also makes it clear that LGI are able to calculate any 
settlement offer based on the discounts and agreements they have in place with suppliers 
and so, I think they were fair to do this.
From what I can see, the main areas of dispute revolve around the kitchen and the carpets 
and bed frames upstairs. Mrs V thinks the entire kitchen should be replaced, due to the 
damage and the smell that continues to be present. But I can see LGI dispute this at the 
moment, explaining they havent been given the opportunity to inspect the kitchen to agree a 
full schedule of works.
While I appreciate Mrs V wanted the entire kitchen to be replaced, and I appreciate her 
reasons why, I note from the policy she holds that she didnt take out the replacement of sets 
cover, which was an optional extra on the policy. So, the policy she holds doesnt cover her 
for a replacement of undamaged parts. This means that, if parts of the kitchen are 
undamaged by the fire, then LGI arent required to replace these. And Id be unable to direct 
them to do so, or say they acted unfairly when declining to do so, if a report states only part 
of the kitchen is damaged.
I can see in the original report compiled by X that a full replacement of the kitchen wasnt 
recommended. And that instead, certain damaged sections should be replaced. So, I 
wouldnt expect LGI to agree to a full kitchen replacement based on this. I appreciate Mrs V 
disagreed, and shes provided an independent report which suggests the kitchen may need 
to be fully replaced. But crucially, this report doesnt say it definitively should. And where Mrs 
V has provided a report that differs to the one compiled by X, I think LGI are fair to ask that 
they complete another full inspection of the area, so they can fairly take into consideration 
Mrs Vs concerns and requests.
I can see LGI have offered to complete this investigation. But Mrs V has refused, as LGI 
wish to use X again. While I recognise Mrs V feels employees of X may have stolen a games 
console, this is a criminal matter and not one Im able to comment or speculate on. So, I 
cant say this did or didnt happen. But what I can see is that LGI have confirmed a different 
team from X would be sent to complete the inspection, and I think this shows LGI acting 
fairly to alleviate Mrs Vs concerns. While I understand why Mrs V wants LGI to appoint 
another expert, LGI have confirmed X is the only expert they use. And its not my role to 
comment upon their business processes or who they decide to use to complete work on their 
behalf. So, I cant say this stance is unfair from LGI.
Because of this, I think LGI have given Mrs V the opportunity for them to consider an 
increase in settlement, on the basis that Mrs V allows them to complete an inspection and 
determine the extent of the damage. I think this is reasonable and so, I cant say the 
settlement offer theyve provided is unfair regarding the costs to repair the kitchen.
Ive then turned to the carpets and fabric bed frames. Mrs V feels they should be replaced. 
But LGI doesnt, referring to the initial report X compiled. I can see X recommended these be 
cleaned and so, I think LGI were fair to rely on the expert opinion at the time. But I do 
acknowledge Mrs V provided her own independent report. And so, Ive thought about what 
information this included.
While the report did seem to suggest a replacement would be the necessary option, crucially the report Mrs V has provided explains that they couldnt guarantee cleaning would fully 
restore either the carpet or the bed frames. But they didnt say it definitively wouldnt. And in 
the quote compiled for Mrs V, it goes on to provide costings for the cleaning of the carpets, 
rather than the replacement. I also note that the quote itself didnt provide a breakdown of 
each service recommended.
So, I dont think this report is enough to suggest LGI were unfair not to agree to 
replacements following their receipt of it. And as there is no breakdown of costs, I dont think 
LGI were unfair to pay Mrs V £400 to undertake the cleaning aspect of the work, based on 
their own estimates. I can see LGI have agreed to reconsider all the additional costs and 
work Mrs V has requested within a new inspection and I think this shows LGI acting fairly. 
So, I dont think I can say the settlement offer LGI have provided so far is unfair considering 
this issue.
And I think it follows for the rest of Mrs Vs concerns, for example the replacement of the 
downstairs light fittings she feels have discoloured, that LGI have agreed to reconsider these 
costs as part of a new investigation. And so far, LGI have been unable to arrange for a new 
inspection due to the stance taken by Mrs V. So, while this stance remains the same, I dont 
think I can say LGI have acted unfairly regarding this.
Im aware Mrs V has already expressed her unhappiness about LGIs failure to pay for the 
drone stored within the property. But the terms of the policy she hold makes it clear that 
aircrafts of any type, including models such as drones are not covered under her contents 
insurance. So, I dont think LGI have acted unfairly when not covering this aspect of the 
claim.
And Im aware Mrs V thinks LGI should pay her for her replacement Satellite TV equipment. 
But the fire damaged equipment is the property of the satellite TV company, and not Mrs Vs. 
Mrs V paid a monthly fee for the use of this equipment but she didnt own it outright. So, I 
dont think these items are coverable under the insurance policy and so, I dont think LGI 
have acted unfairly when not including these within the settlement shes been provided.
But as I explained above, LGI have accepted their failures regarding the delays and the 
breakdown in communication and so, Ive thought about what I think LGI should do to put 
things right considering this. 
Putting things right
I can see LGI already paid Mrs G £400 in response to two earlier complaints about the 
breakdown in communication with B, and the delay in paying alternative food costs. And in 
LGIs most recent complaint response, theyve offered Mrs V a further £700 to recognise the 
delay in providing her with a settlement, due to communication issues between themselves, 
Mrs V, P and X. Mrs V to date hasnt accepted this offer.
So, LGI have offered Mrs V a total of £1,100 to recognise their failures and the impact this 
has caused Mrs V. And I think this offer is a fair one, which falls in line with what I wouldve 
recommended had it not already been put forward.
I think the significance of the amount adequately recognises Mrs Vs individual 
circumstances which saw her needing alternative accommodation with her children. And I 
think it recognises the failures LGI and their agents have made which have elongated the 
claim process and left Mrs V in a situation that, presently, remains unresolved. But I think it 
also fairly considers LGIs attempts to provide Mrs V with a fair and reasonable settlement offer, based on the information they have available to them, without being able to complete 
another inspection to take into consideration Mrs Vs ongoing concerns. This in part has 
resulted in the claim delay and so, I dont think LGI are responsible for all the delays and the 
fact the claim remains unsettled at this present time.
So, as LGI are yet to pay Mrs V £700 of this compensatory amount, I think they should pay 
this to her. And then it is up to Mrs V to decide whether she wishes to accept the settlement 
amount currently on offer, or whether she is willing to work with LGI to arrange another 
inspection so her outstanding concerns regarding the amount can be considered.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, as the £700 offered to Mrs V has yet to be paid, I uphold 
Mrs Vs complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited and I direct them to take 
the following action:
Pay Mrs V £700 as outlined in their complaint response to recognise the delays and 
communication issues during the claim process.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman