DRN-3596621
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(Shop Direct) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr B opened two shopping accounts with Shop Direct, both opened in November 2014. The 
first account  Account A  was with Very with opening credit limit of £750. This account 
then benefitted from four increases to its credit limit, increasing from £1250 in November 
2016 up to £3750 in October 2018. 
The second account  Account B  was with Littlewoods had an opening credit limit of £600 
but no further credit limit increases after that. The account limit was reduced to £500 in June 
2015.
Both accounts fell into arrears from around September 2019. A default notice was issued for 
each account in February 2020. Account A was then passed to a third party March 2020 
followed by Account B in May 2020.
Mr B says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to him and that the credit became 
unsustainable for him as he couldnt keep up with the payments. 
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr B  and each time when 
it increased his credit limit. 
In my provisional decision dated 15 June 2022 I explained why I was intending to uphold any 
part of this complaint. I set out an extract below:
Shop Direct says it acted as a responsible lender when opening Mr Bs account and 
increasing his credit limits. Our adjudicator has set out in some detail why she thought Shop 
Direct lent to him irresponsibly. 
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Shop Directs lending history with 
Mr B, so as to see if there was a point when it should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would mean Shop Direct 
should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased Mr Bs credit limits.
Having reviewed the complaint myself, including the account history, Ive reached a different 
outcome to that of our adjudicator. I dont currently consider that Mr B lost out due to Shop 
Directs actions in relation to his account. I will explain why. 
When Mr B opened these two accounts in November 2014, Shop Direct has told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the 
available information, including the credit file Mr B has given us, I dont think there is 
anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for Shop Direct not have to have 
approved these accounts. Shop Direct didnt ask about Mr Bs income, and this may have 
helped it begin to build a picture of Mr Bs financial circumstances. But even if it had, at this 
stage, I dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to extend the credit.
Looking at the series of credit limit increases Shop Direct gave Mr B on Account A, I agree  
that it would have been helpful for Shop Direct to have found out more about Mr Bs financial 
situation on each occasion so that it could verify his income and committed expenditure. But 
I dont think the information we have about Mr Bs financial situation at the time is enough for 
me to be able to find that had Shop Direct carried out additional proportionate checks, it 
would have found these credit limit increases to be unsustainable.
Our adjudicator explained why she thought Shop Direct shouldnt have provided Mr B with 
any further increases in credit from April 2018 onwards. Shop Direct didnt agree. In 
particular it said that Mr B had got into difficulties due to a substantial increase in a loan he 
had taken out subsequently, in April 2019. The loan had the effect of increasing his monthly 
repayments from £230 to £641. It also said that Mr B had been managing his accounts well 
 to the extent that he sometimes made overpayments - and had never got into arrears for 
Account A. Also, the credit checks it ran showed that Mr Bs debt commitments elsewhere 
appeared to be manageable and his income had also increased significantly. Our adjudicator 
suggested that although Mr B was making payments on time and his account seemed well 
managed, Shop Direct ought to have been concerned about his rising balance. 
Whilst I can see that Mr Bs balance on account A had doubled between September 2017 
and April 2018, I currently dont consider that this alone is enough for me to find that Mr B 
was struggling with his account and that there was a real risk that he was going to have 
difficulty in reducing his balance. Ive also noticed that Mr B missed a payment on Account B 
in April 2014 and incurred three administration charges at around this time, but I wouldnt 
necessarily have expected this to be something that suggested his credit limit ought not to 
have been increased four years later. 
Our adjudicator had at first thought that Mr Bs complaint ought to be upheld from 
June 2019. This was because Mr B had made less than minimum payments on three 
occasions by June 2019 and was using more than 70% of his credit limit. Other than that, it 
seems that Mr B made payments consistently and on some occasions above the minimum 
payment required. Ive so far seen no other evidence or information to show or suggest that 
he was getting into financial difficulty at around this time. 
Overall, I currently dont think the information we have about Mr Bs financial situation at the 
time is enough for me to be able to find that, had Shop Direct carried out additional 
proportionate checks, it likely would have found these credit limit increases to be 
unsustainable. I say this having carefully reviewed all the information Mr B has sent us 
about his financial situation. 
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I currently dont think Shop 
Directs actions, first in opening the accounts A and B and then in increasing the credit 
limits on Account A up to October 2018, would have caused Mr B to lose out. I also dont 
consider Mr Bs account history necessarily suggested his financial situation was 
worsening. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into Mr Bs circumstances 
would have led Shop Direct to conclude that it should have taken a course of action that 
was significantly different to what it did. 
The third party representing Mr B acknowledged receiving my provisional decision and said 
it was being forwarded to Mr B and they would get back to us as soon as possible. But they 
havent come back to us by the date set for providing a response. Shop Direct also confirmed receiving my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Given that neither party has provided me with any further evidence or information to 
consider, I see no reason to change my finding that Shop Direct did not act unfairly. So I 
wont be making any award as I dont think Mr B was caused any loss as a result of 
Shop Directs actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman