DRN-1640666
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy because she says The Claims Guys Limited didnt handle some of her 
claims for mis-sold PPI fairly. She said it didnt communicate with her as it should have. And 
this led to her being unable to make claims with some lenders. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs F instructed The Claims Guys to complete free PPI checks for her, and 
pursue any claims for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. 
The Claims Guys sent data subject access requests (DSARs) to a number of lenders to 
establish whether Mrs F was sold PPI in the past. Mrs F is concerned that The Claims Guys 
didnt deal with responses from three of these lenders correctly. She said she wasnt 
informed about the position of these claims properly. And because of that, she hadnt been 
able to submit mis-sale claims to these lenders by the final deadline given by the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
The lenders were as follows;
Lender A  who Mrs F had a loan with;
Lender B  who Mrs F had a store account with;
Lender C  who Mrs F had a different store account with.
 
In respect of lender A and B  The Claims Guys said these lenders had explained there was 
no PPI sold to Mrs F with the borrowing she took out. And it let Mrs F know this, via text and 
email in early July 2019. 
In terms of lender C  The Claims Guys noted the lender had responded to it, and asked for 
some more information to locate Mrs F on its systems. It couldnt find an account for her. As 
a result, The Claims Guys said it contacted Mrs F via email, and asked her to supply these 
details and sign a letter of authority again. But, it noted Mrs F didnt provide this information 
by the PPI deadline in August 2019. So, it hadnt been able to move forward with this claim.
So, The Claims Guys was satisfied it had communicated the position of Mrs Fs claims to her 
 and therefore hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs F didnt agree. She said she hadnt been notified that her claims with lender A and B 
had come back as her having no PPI. And that she also hadnt received correspondence 
from The Claims Guys in reference to lender C, asking her to provide further details. She 
reiterated that she only found out the above on the day of the deadline. And therefore 
missed out on the opportunity to make successful claims to these lenders.
Because Mrs F remained unhappy she referred her complaint to The Claims Management 
Ombudsman (A Financial Ombudsman Service).Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she had seen contact 
notes, and sample emails which suggested it was most likely The Claims Guys had notified 
Mrs F on the position of the above claims  and before the PPI deadline day. She also said 
that because Mrs F did receive communication on that day too, she could have still 
contacted the lenders to make a claim. So, she didnt think The Claims Guys needed to do 
more in this case.
Mrs F disagreed. She provided emails to this service, which she said illustrated that shed 
not received information about the above claims until the deadline day. She reiterated not 
having received email or text communication in this respect either.
Because Mrs F disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
As above, Mrs F has explained shes concerned with the way The Claims Guys handled 
three of her claims for mis-sold PPI. So, Ive needed to look at each of these claims, and 
decide whether I think The Claims Guys acted fairly or not in the way it handled them. For 
ease of reference, Ive referred to these under separate headings.
Lenders A and B
The Claims Guys has said it received responses to its DSARs from these lenders. And that 
these had said Mrs F didnt have PPI on the borrowing shed taken out. Ive seen The Claims 
Guys contact notes, which confirm this was the response it had received. So, Im satisfied 
this was the communication it got from the relevant lenders.
Given this, Ive needed to look at how, or if, The Claims Guys let Mrs F know the outcome of 
these DSARs. And, based on what Ive seen, I think its most likely it did. So, Im satisfied 
The Claims Guys acted fairly here.
The Claims Guys has provided me with file notes  including notes in reference to contact 
made with lenders and Mrs F. On these contact notes I can see an entry made onto the file 
in mid-July 2019. This says a text message was sent to Mrs F  and it provided details of the 
phone number this was sent to. This phone number matches with the one Mrs F provided to 
the Claims Guys when she contacted it. So, Im satisfied the message was sent to the 
correct phone number. The details on the notes refer to the reference numbers for the claims 
to lender A and lender B. So, I think its likely this text contained information about those 
particular lenders.
Ive also seen an email Mrs F sent to The Claims Guys in October 2019. In this, Mrs F 
explained she did receive a message at 10:25am, noting lender cannot locate PPI. So, Im 
satisfied Mrs F did get some communication to let her know these lenders had said there 
was no PPI sold with these lines of credit.
The Claims Guys has also said it sent emails to Mrs F about these lenders. But, Mrs F says 
she didnt receive these. I havent been provided with the actual emails The Claims Guys 
said it sent. So, I cant be sure of what emails were issued to Mrs F, or what they contained. 
But, when coming to my decision Ive needed to decide what is most likely to have happened in this case. And, as with the text messages, I do think its most likely Mrs F was sent emails 
in reference to claims with these lenders too.
I say this because The Claims Guys has provided email templates, which show what the 
emails it sent to its customer said  where no PPI had been found on account. As this type 
of email would have been sent to a large amount of consumers, Im satisfied its reasonable 
to say these would have taken a standardised format. So, I find the provision of these email 
templates persuasive evidence in this case.
These emails templates show the email would have contained the name of the lender, and 
explained no PPI had been found. It also would have explained that if the customer had any 
further information to show PPI was actually sold, it should contact The Claims Guys and let 
it know this. So, I think these emails would have made it clear to Mrs F what lenders had 
said she didnt have any PPI with it, as well as what she would have needed to do if she had 
evidence to the contrary.
The Claims Guys file notes, show an entry made in mid-July 2019, noting an email being 
sent to Mrs F about these lenders. Given this, and the presence of the email template, I do 
think its most likely The Claims Guys communicated with Mrs F fairly on these claims. And, 
she would have had sufficient time to take further action if she felt this was necessary.
Mrs F is concerned The Claims Guys closed her claims on hearing she didnt have PPI with 
these lenders. She said it did this without telling her. But, the terms and conditions of Mrs Fs 
agreement with The Claims Guys do note the agreement will come to an end if there is no 
PPI found. And I think this is reasonable in Mrs Fs case. There was nothing else The Claims 
Guys could action here.
Given the above, I do think The Claims Guys acted fairly. 
Lender C
The Claims Guys has noted that it received a response to its DSAR from lender C  saying it 
couldnt locate Mrs F on its systems, and therefore it needed further information to take the 
matter further. Reviewing the file notes in this case, these do note this response. So, Im also 
satisfied this is what The Claims Guys were told about Mrs Fs account by lender C.
The Claims Guys has said it sent emails to Mrs F, letting her know this was the case. Mrs F 
says she didnt receive notification of this until the day of the PPI claim deadline. Again, Ive 
considered what is most likely to have happened in this respect. And I do think its most 
likely The Claims Guys did contact Mrs F to let her know further information was needed.
As with the above lenders, Ive seen contact notes which show that towards the end of July 
2019 an automatic email was sent to Mrs F, explaining further information was needed in 
order for the claim to proceed. As this note would have been made at the time this action 
was being taken, I do think its most likely to be an accurate reflection of the work being 
carried out on the claim at the time.
Ive also seen a copy of the template email The Claims Guys used in circumstances where 
further information was needed. This details the name of the lender, and notes the relevant 
lender hadnt been able to locate the consumer. And it explained if the consumer had further 
information The Claims Guys would be able to search again. 
Mrs F did send a reply to The Claims Guys following this email  asking why she needed to 
take further action and sign a further document in relation to this claim. So, its clear Mrs F 
did receive an email noting further action was needed. Mrs F has said she didnt receive a response to her questions. The Claims Guys has also provided a copy of an email it sent to 
Mrs F, replying to her questions. I can see this explained what the further information was 
needed for. And it did note that in order to progress the matter further The Claims Guys 
would need to receive further evidence from Mrs F.
Mrs F has explained she didnt receive this email. Its my understanding this email was sent 
to Mrs F at the same email address previous successful emails were sent to. So, Im 
satisfied The Claims Guys acted fairly in this respect.
But, even if Mrs F didnt receive or see this response, I dont think it makes a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. Mrs F was aware the claim wasnt moving forward because 
further information was needed. So, if Mrs F still wanted to move the matter forward she 
would have been able to call The Claims Guys and ask for further assistance.
Mrs F was sent an email on the day before the PPI claims deadline too. Ive seen a copy of 
this email.
It listed a number of claims being made for Mrs F, and the current status of them. It didnt 
detail the closed claims (lender A and B). But given these were closed for having no PPI, I 
think thats fair. There wasnt any action to take.
The email let Mrs F know the current position with all her claims still being worked on. And 
this included information to tell Mrs F that because it hadnt received the further information 
from her  she would need to contact the lender herself to pursue the claim. I appreciate Mrs 
F has said this didnt leave sufficient time for her to lodge her claim with lender C. But I do 
think Mrs F had already been told of status of this claim in July 2019. And Mrs C could have 
still contacted the lender for the remaining on receiving the email the day before the 
deadline. So, I do think she had time to act before the relevant deadline.
Given the above, I also find that The Claims Guys acted fairly here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
The Claims Guys Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman