DRN-3141952
The complaint
Mr P has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, has not dealt properly with 
problems hes had getting his car repaired. Mr P made a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
What happened
In 2018 Mr P made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act for a repair to his 
car. This followed an expert report which identified an extensive oil leak in the upper part of 
Mr Ps car engine. Halifax met this claim and repairs were supposedly done at two different 
garages by July 2018. This followed an agreement with Halifax that this didnt invalidate any 
future claim.
Halifax also paid alternative transport costs to Mr P. Mr P is a disabled person which means 
he relies on his car which had been out of service.
A year later the same problems re-occurred. Mr P made a further section 75 claim as it 
seemed clear to him that the repairs had been completed inadequately the year before. 
Halifax turned down Mr Ps claim. They felt it was too difficult to assess which garage was 
responsible for the problem so they couldnt see where liability lay. They believed the claim 
failed on the requirement under section 75 to provide definitive proof.
Halifax did however suggest a further expert report should be conducted. They offered a 
contribution of £300 towards getting another report completed. Mr P couldnt see how this 
would resolve the issue about which garage was at fault. 
Mr P brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Initially we advised Mr P a further 
expert report was the right route out of this. We also confirmed we had no power to look at 
what happened in 2018 as Mr P only brought his complaint to our service after the six month 
period had expired, following Halifaxs relevant final response.
Mr P got a further independent report carried out. This identified the oil leak in the upper 
engine continued to cause the problems Mr P was having. Our investigator felt that was 
sufficient evidence to confirm Halifax needed to sort out what had happened. The repairs in 
2018 hadnt been carried out properly and this meant the original breach wasnt rectified.
In terms of considering a fair solution, our investigator considered the age and condition of 
Mr Ps vehicle. Although his car had successfully completed its MOT in January 2021, there 
were now more than 104,350 miles on the clock and it was over 11 years old. Our 
investigators solution proposed providing Mr P a lump-sum equivalent to the average trade-
in value. This worked out at £679.25. Mr P would be left with the car and any residual value. 
Our investigator felt this reflected the fact that any repair would exceed the value of the value 
so couldnt recommend the repair being done.
Halifax accepted this outcome.
Mr P didnt and provided an extensive submission in response. The main points he made 
included:
Hed been without a car for two years and this resolution provided no recompense for 
that aspect. He was looking for a resolution to include consequential loss and 
compensation which he estimated to be £6,876.12 and £2,000 for the damage done 
to his mental health. Mr P included copies of receipts for transport and 
accommodations costs that hed been obliged to use whilst his car was unavailable;
This solution didnt rectify the breach which he felt could be sorted by sourcing a 
vehicle of a similar age and condition if it was felt the repairs outweighed the value of 
his current vehicle. He provided a number of comparisons which suggested 
compensation should be set at £3,000 rather than £680;
Hed endured a number of service issues with Halifax and doubted their ability to 
manage section 75 claims. Hed specifically been told having two garages complete 
the repair wouldnt impact his future ability to make a claim; and
The ombudsman service had been reviewing his complaint for nearly two years 
which he believed had exacerbated his transport issues.
Our investigator accepted that his proposed solution didnt put Mr P in the position hed been 
in before the breach took place. But he felt some of the problems Mr P had were 
exacerbated by his decision to not have an expert report undertaken for two years. 
Mr P provided further detail in response but essentially wished an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 29 September 2021. I revised the value of Mr Ps car 
based on the average of current valuations and also explained why I believed consequential 
losses  Mr Ps transport and accommodation costs for the period he had no use of the car  
should be paid. I also explained why I felt compensation of £350 was fair and reasonable.
Mr P agreed with certain aspects of my provisional decision. He felt strongly Id 
misinterpreted the impact of Halifaxs inability to manage his complaint on him. His personal 
situation and disabilities meant  he believed  that £2,000 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. He provided a detailed summary of the issues he asked me to consider. 
He also believed that my valuation was incorrect and argued that a total of £3,000 should be 
paid by Halifax for the car.
Halifax also responded. They initially accepted my car valuation and confirmed they would 
be willing to accept my proposal they pay Mr P £2,351.50. 
A couple of weeks later they provided a more detailed response. This confirmed they 
believed Mr Ps claim for consequential losses was excessive. They felt hed not done 
enough to mitigate his losses and that these losses were unforeseeable so couldnt relate to 
the breach of contract. They believed he could have hired an alternative car for example. 
They also now said they thought £1,500 was sufficient as a lump-sum payment for the car.
Halifax also confirmed theyd already paid more than £4,070 to Mr P for the issues hed had 
with his car.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to reach the same outcome I came to in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. So, for example, Im aware Mr P has raised other 
issues which have concerned him around how Halifax manages its section 75 complaints. 
Ive not looked at these separately as its up to any business to decide how they manage 
their customer service issues. However I can review whether this had a specific impact on 
Mr P because of his personal situation. Im satisfied Ive done that here.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im also aware of the detail contained in all of our investigators views of 27 November 2020, 
12 March and 5 July 2021. These cover what happened, including what the two independent 
reports state about the condition of Mr Ps vehicle. I wont be repeating all this information 
again but I have taken it into account.
Mr P provided detailed responses to all the views and to my provisional decision. Ive noted 
and reviewed these carefully in considering what I believe is the right outcome. Im aware 
Mr P has continued to stress the impact on him of what happened because of his personal 
situation, including his disabilities. I can reassure him I have done so and that includes the 
case law Mr P has cited. I also explain below why Ive not reached the same conclusion as 
he did.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr P used his 
Halifax credit card for repairs which cost more than £2,000 to two different garages in 2018. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Halifaxs liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Halifax did enough in considering Mr Ps complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask Halifax to put things right. Its worth stating that my 
role is not to penalise businesses for a breach of contract on its own. Im concentrating on 
the impact of that breach rather than the fact a breach may have occurred.Breach of contract
Our investigator confirmed  based on the evidence provided by the independent report  in 
his view of 5 July 2021 that there had been a breach of contract. Halifaxs section 75 team 
accepted this outcome. Mr P also believes there was a breach of contract. Subsequent 
correspondence also confirms this.
So the fact there was a breach no longer appears to be in dispute between the parties. 
I have reviewed the independent report along with the evidence of what happened. The 
repairs Mr P contracted to have done to rectify issues he was having with an extensive oil 
leak were never properly completed. I cant see otherwise how these problems would re-
occur so quickly afterwards.
Mr P clearly believes all redress should date from the original breach in 2018. I disagree. 
This complaint is about the second breach which came to light in mid-2019 as thats when 
this impacted Mr P.
Although its not completely clear why or who didnt complete the required repairs, I disagree 
with Halifax that this is a relevant issue to them being able to settle Mr Ps section 75 claim. 
Whilst it may cause them difficulties in assessing which merchant is liable, this should have 
no bearing in deciding to accept Mr Ps claim there was a breach of contract.
Like Mr P, Im also sceptical about Halifaxs use of the term definitive proof which they use 
regularly. I cant see its use within the legislation. I can see why some would think this 
discourages customers from pursuing complaints.
Overall I am satisfied there was a breach of contract.
Putting things right
I appreciate the points Mr P has made to evidence the proposed solution doesnt meet the 
requirements to rectify the breach of his contract. In deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable which I outline below, I have considered the following:
Mr Ps points and medical evidence about his personal health and the impact on his 
mental health. Mr P has said he was only able to return to work in the last couple of 
years and Halifaxs treatment of him has impacted his mental health. I can see Mr Ps 
health issues have been long-term and originate before Mr Ps problems with his car.
At the time of the problems Mr P was having with his car, he was going back to the 
workplace for the first time in a while.
Mr P believes hes been left without a workable car for two years since he first 
complained to Halifax. I absolutely agree that this will be an issue. I have also noted 
that the last 18 months has seen changed driving habits through prolonged national 
periods of lockdown and physical presence at work  particularly in a role like Mr Ps 
 has been required less. Ive balanced this with medical evidence which shows Mr P 
finds it difficult to use public transport. In fact Mr Ps claim for consequential loss 
concentrates on the period August 2019 to April 2020: after the breach had an impact 
and prior to working at home requirements because of Covid.
Mr P has pointed out the requirement to rectify a breach under section 75. However 
as I pointed out above, were not resolving a section 75 claim as thats an issue for 
the courts.This service often requires an independent report to provide us with evidence of the 
breach of contract. I know Mr P feels that Halifax said theyd ignore what any report 
would confirm even if he got one earlier. However I believe its the case this could 
have been resolved much earlier if this had existed in say May 2020 rather than May 
2021. Mr P insists this fault lies with Halifax as much as him. I have taken this into 
account.
Theres no evidence about the cost of repairs now needed which show why these 
wouldnt be justifiable considering the residual value of Mr Ps car. Whilst Mr Ps car 
may be older and have a considerable mileage, neither of these facts should dictate 
that engine repairs would be uneconomic. Mr Ps car is invaluable to him so leaving 
him with £680 and a car which requires substantive repairs doesnt appear to be fair 
and reasonable.
Whilst having an independent report would have helped resolve this complaint 
earlier, I dont agree that the lack of this report holds any greater weight than Halifax 
not accepting Mr Ps original claim in 2019.
Mr Ps detailed points and costings about alternative cars of a similar age and model. 
The correct alternative car would I believe match the car at the time of the breach of 
contract in 2019. In July 2019 the mileage was 102,278 and the car was nine years 
old. This differs from Mr Ps assessment that the right comparison would be a car 
with 93,000 miles on the clock and being eight years old. Mr P provided further 
details of adverts to confirm that he needed more than Id proposed to give him 
sufficient money to replace his car.
As Ive decided there was a breach of contract, I think its fair and reasonable that Halifax 
puts things right. The priority I believe is to get Mr P a workable vehicle which he can use. 
He may have managed some limited use over the last couple of years but I think its difficult 
to conclude whether thats because Mr P has only used the car for short trips because of its 
condition or the impact of national lockdowns.
All parties now agree that its better to provide Mr P with a lump sum which would 
approximate to the value of an alternative car.
In terms of what I believe is the correct lump sum. I have looked at the retail transacted 
value of cars of this age and mileage based on the trade guides. These show figures of 
£2,103 and £2,600. I therefore believe the correct lump sum would be the average of these 
two  £2,351.50. Ive seen nothing which makes me believe this is incorrect.
Both Halifax and Mr P proposed alternative figures of £1,500 and £3,000 for the lump sum. 
Coincidentally my figure  based on appropriate evidence  seems halfway between both.
I have also considered consequential losses which is a key part of Mr Ps detailed 
submission. These cover travel, hotel accommodation and rental costs predominantly for the 
period from September 2019 until April 2020 when Mr P was working again. I have 
considered whether it was possible for Mr P to have mitigated his situation in any way. I can 
see he tried to minimise the time spent on public transport because of his health (thus 
entailing accommodation costs). Mr P has provided detailed evidence on this aspect. Hes 
also offset his calculations by what hed have spent if his car was usable for these journeys. I 
believe this amount should be paid in full. 
Halifax believes Mr P didnt mitigate his losses but I disagree as Ive stated above. They also 
dont think these losses were foreseeable but I dont believe thats the case either. Mr P was 
without transport, has disabilities and needed to limit his exposure to public transport. I believe he took the necessary steps to limit the overall costs. 
Halifax has received a copy of Mr Ps detailed breakdown and Ive not seen them highlight 
any specific aspects where they feel Mr P has overspent. I do appreciate the costs are high 
but overall Im satisfied these relate to the breach of contract. Halifax previously paid travel 
costs related to the 2018 breach so I believe the same principle applies to Mr Ps later costs.
Mr P has stated Halifax should pay him compensation for the distress suffered for what he 
had to go through. I disagree with him here. Mr Ps health issues has roots further back than 
the issues with his car. He believes case law means that I can still take this into account. I 
agree with him here and can reassure him I have. However I dont think the compensation 
hes suggested would be fair and reasonable. Halifax has already paid Mr P £400 for the 
trouble caused and Ive taken this into account.
I also dont think it would be fair to penalise Halifax for Mr P deciding not to opt for a further 
independent report in 2019. I know Mr P thinks he was led to believe Halifax would take no 
account of it if he had obtained it but I dont agree with him. In effect theyd have had trouble 
ignoring it. I should stress that our rules dont allow me to penalise Halifax. Thats not our 
role.
Mr P highlighted occasions where travelling on public transport caused him great emotional 
and physical distress. I dont dispute this happened whilst Mr P was without use of his car 
but I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable to ask Halifax to compensate him for this.
I do think Halifax could have sorted out the problems with Mr Ps complaint in a much better 
manner. Their attitude  as highlighted earlier  suggests they were trying to fob Mr P off. 
Overall Im going to ask Halifax to pay Mr P £350 for this. This is more than I would normally 
ask but this is because of the specific impact of this on Mr P.
I appreciate both parties will remain dissatisfied with the outcome I have decided.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax UK, to:
Make a lump-sum payment of £2,351.50 to Mr P enabling him to buy an equivalent 
age and condition car as at mid-2019;
Arrange to collect and transfer ownership of Mr Ps existing car;
Reimburse Mr P for the work-related travel and accommodation costs he had from 
August 2019 to April 2020 totalling £6,876.12; and
Pay Mr P £350 for the trouble caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman