DRN-2835993
The complaint
Ms O complains that Zurich Assurance Limited (T/A Allied Dunbar), referred to here as 
Zurich, applied unfair terms to her personal pension plan (PPP). She says the higher plan 
charges involving capital units can be minimised by selecting the earliest possible 
retirement age, which means that there isnt any benefit to choosing a later selected 
retirement age (SRA). She says the later SRA simply extends the period in which these 
higher charges are applied and believes thats an unfair contract. 
She also complains that she wasnt provided with that information when the recommendation 
to take out the plan was made, and wants her pension fund to be restored to the position it 
would now be, if shed been advised to choose an earlier SRA.
What happened
In 1990 Ms O met with an adviser through her employer who recommended that she started 
a PPP  as she wasnt eligible to join her employers group personal pension scheme. 
Subsequently the employer agreed to make contributions to her PPP in addition to her 
personal contributions. She also contracted out of the state earnings related pension 
scheme through the plan and was invested in a managed fund. Ms Os SRA was 60 which 
she said she chose simply to match her state retirement age.
In January 2006 Ms O confirmed to Zurich that she had appointed a new financial adviser. 
In May 2014 Mrs O received a pre-retirement pack from Zurich as her SRA for the PPP was 
approaching. But she didnt draw her benefits, so they were deferred for a further five years.
In March 2019 Ms O wrote to Zurich with questions around the charges on her PPP. She 
said shed been reviewing her plan and noticed it now contained only accumulation units, so 
she made the following points:
A higher rate of charges applied to capital units. 
Capital units were converted to accumulation units on her SRA. But if shed chosen 
an earlier retirement date, she would have paid the higher charged capital units for a 
lesser period. 
That would have meant paying lower overall charges.
It wasnt made clear how important  with regards to overall charges, the choice of 
SRA was at the time of taking out the plan. 
It seemed unreasonable that the amount of overall charges was based on the SRA 
without making that clear at the outset.
She should have been advised to set the earliest possible SRA to minimise the 
overall charges.
Zurich said it wasnt responsible for the advice given to Ms O. It gave details of the adviser it 
said was responsible and referred the complaint to that firm as well.
Zurich gave further information on how it applied capital units in the first two years of the 
plan and that those units were converted to accumulation units when Ms O reached her 
SRA. But it reiterated that it had applied its costs in line with its terms and conditions (T&Cs) 
and so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
 
Ms O wasnt happy with the response she received so she brought her complaints to us. She 
said that the adviser didnt advise her correctly regarding the SRA, but also that Zurichs 
pension contract terms were unfair.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint against Zurich but didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said that Zurich had applied the charges in line with its T&Cs which were set out 
in the plan booklet. But she said she couldnt hold Zurich responsible for any incorrect advice 
as it didnt provide any  but that would be considered under a separate complaint against 
the firm that provided the advice.
Ms O said she accepted that Zurich had applied the charges in line with its T&Cs but thought 
that the T&Cs themselves were unfair. She said the question of selecting a retirement age 
was instead simply a question of a policyholder deciding for how long they would prefer to 
pay higher charges. 
The investigator said the question of unfair contracts was something for the regulator to 
consider, so Ms O asked the investigator to confirm in writing that we didnt have the scope 
to consider such matters. Further discussions continued around the question of whether the 
contract was unfair but, in the end, Ms O asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She confirmed:
It hadnt been possible to confirm any advantages of choosing a later SRA, so she 
thought the terms were unfair. 
Zurich should have confirmed, at the time she was asked to choose an SRA, that the 
only effect of the choice would be on the overall costs of the plan.
Higher charges were also applied to every increase in pension contributions because 
of the investment each time into capital units. As her contributions were based on 
salary and increased most years this would have impacted her plan to a greater 
degree. 
So, the complaint was passed to me for a review.  
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Ms Os complaint shouldnt be upheld. I made the 
following points in support of my findings:
Ms Os complaint about the advice she was given to choose her SRA was being 
considered separately against her adviser. So it wasnt fair to ask Zurich to calculate 
a revised value of her PPP fund on that basis, as it didnt advise her what SRA to 
select. 
But I had considered Ms Os complaint about the fairness of Zurichs contract with 
regards to the SRA.
I though Zurich acted within its T&Cs  but so did Ms O. The question was whether 
the terms were unfair, because it appeared that selecting an earlier SRA would 
produce lower overall charges and seemed to suggest there was no benefit in 
choosing any SRA apart from the earliest one possible. The T&Cs for the plan were written over thirty years ago under a different pension 
landscape. Charges were included so that Zurich could meet the cost of 
administering the plan. So Zurich need to impose charges which were fair to 
everyone and didnt punish consumers who, by and large, adhered to the T&Cs  
while allowing some flexibility for transferring to other providers and retiring at 
different ages. It wasnt possible to draw up individual contracts for everyone so 
Zurich had to assume that most policyholders would choose the SRA that best suited 
their circumstances and maintained their contributions up to that point. 
By assuming consumers would choose the SRA they believed was correct for their 
circumstances, Zurich could average out the costs of administering a plan up to age 
50 or 60 for example. Zurich needed to try to be fair to most scenarios, and its 
assumption that most people would retire between age 50 and 65 allowed it to 
recoup its overall costs whether it administered some plans for longer than others. 
I didnt think this was an unfair contract although it did allow for the potential for some 
policyholders to work out they might pay lower overall charges by selecting a lower 
SRA.
However, Zurich said there were some benefits in holding onto a plan for longer. It 
was clear for example that the longer a plan was held the greater the fund might be  
especially if a policyholder was unsure about when they might retire.
It was possible to capitalise on the facility to choose a lower SRA and benefit from 
lower overall charges, but if Zurich advertised this from the outset it would probably 
have had to alter its entire charging model in order to continue to recoup the 
appropriate administration charges.
I thought it was reasonable for Zurich to assume its policyholders would choose the 
most appropriate SRA and therefore it could cross subsidise the costs so that 
everyone paid a fair charge for the benefits they required. 
I didnt think Zurich needed to make consumers aware of the loophole which might 
have existed within the contract and I thought if policyholders started to exploit it 
Zurich would need to adjust its charging structure accordingly.
Ms O thought this should have been explained to her more clearly when she took out 
the plan  but I thought this was her advisers responsibility.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zurich said it accepted the provisional decision, but Ms O didnt. She wanted to make the 
following observations about the content of my provisional decision:
When she first joined her employer, she wasnt eligible to join its pension scheme  
but was eligible to use the company retained adviser. At that point she took out a 
PPP and transferred in funds from her previous employers scheme. Soon after she 
became eligible to join the new employers scheme but, as she already held a PPP, 
the employer made contributions to that plan instead. 
She thought the advantages of holding the plan for longer that Id set out werent 
related to the SRA that was chosen initially. She thought that potentially those 
advantages might be an argument for choosing an earlier SRA.
It was difficult to argue that policyholders would know many years before retiring 
what SRA would best suit their circumstances at retirement. She gave the example of 
changes in the state pension age as an external factor which might affect the SRA 
but wouldnt be within the policyholders control. 
She thought the use of the word loophole was potentially loaded when it was 
Zurich itself which set the T&Cs. She thought that an alternative charging structure 
based on the actual retirement date might have been a simpler, fairer solution.
Shed investigated the reason for capital units and discovered a regulator feedback 
statement from 2019 which suggested that capital units produced higher overall costs for policyholders and didnt suggest a fair cost allocation. She further believed that 
capital units were effectively a lock in for consumers to higher charges  which 
made it costly to transfer elsewhere.
She still thought the contract was unfair and could not see a benefit to a consumer in 
choosing a later SRA other than the earliest one available. She believed the T&Cs of 
these types of plans primarily benefitted Zurich. 
She wanted to confirm that the overall conclusion Id reached was that I didnt think 
the charging rules were unfair and I thought the responsibility to select an appropriate 
SRA was that of the consumer or their adviser.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered Ms Os further submissions and comments I see no reason 
to depart from my earlier provisional decision. 
Ms O believes that her PPP contract is unfair with respect to the SRA that was chosen and 
its effect on the overall plan charges. She says the earliest possible SRA provides the best 
outcome with regards to overall charges and there is no reason to select a later SRA for that 
reason alone. 
But, as I said previously, I dont believe the contract is essentially unfair. I think Zurich set 
out its T&Cs for this plan over 30 years ago when the pension landscape was somewhat 
different, and its aim was to recoup the administration costs associated with such plans. To 
do so it needed to set out terms which would both ensure those costs were met by 
policyholders but allowed for some flexibility for events which amongst others, included early 
retirement, transfer to other providers and death before retirement.  
Zurich wouldnt have been able to provide an individual solution for each consumer, so it set 
out terms which assumed that policyholders would retire at various ages depending on their 
circumstances and therefore it could cross subsidise those who wanted to retire early 
against those who wanted to retire later. Of course, this solution relied on policyholders 
choosing the SRA that best suited their needs  but I think Zurich could reasonably have 
expected that to be the case.
I think Zurich simply took a commercial decision to set out its T&Cs this way and we wouldnt 
normally interfere with such decisions  unless it seemed that the contract or its decision 
was unfair. But in this case, I dont think it was an unfair part of the contract. Of course, as I 
alluded to in my provisional decision, it was of course possible for policyholders to spot that 
an earlier SRA might well provide them with an overall lower charging situation  that was a 
choice for a policyholder  or their advisers to make, at the point of sale.
But I wouldnt have expected Zurich to make consumers aware of that position. If it had 
encouraged everyone to select the earliest possible SRA  while allowing them to defer that 
date later on, it simply couldnt have continued with its charging structure in that way. It 
wouldnt have been able to recoup the ongoing administration costs and would have had to 
quickly alter its charging structure in relation to the SRA. 
Ms O suggested that Zurich could have used a simple alternative of imposing charges up to 
the actual retirement date  and I accept that this might have been an alternative for Zurich 
to consider. But ultimately it was up to Zurich to make its own decision on how to impose 
charges on its plans. I cant reasonably say that the decision it made was unfair.I understand Ms Os point around not being sure of an appropriate SRA when taking out a 
plan  sometimes 30 to 40 years before retirement. And therefore, the SRAs have to allow 
for some flexibility in changes for events which might not be foreseeable at the time. But 
Zurich did decide to include an SRA within these types of plans  for whatever reason, so it 
was for Ms O or her adviser to decide upon the age she was most likely to retire and indicate 
this on the application. 
In her submissions Ms O has included a copy of a 2019 feedback publication from the 
regulator about pensions, which included its findings about capital units and how they may 
have been responsible for higher overall charges within plans  and made it costly to 
transfer to another provider before an SRA. But I think the effect of capital units was 
disclosed at the outset within Zurichs literature and I cant reasonably say the use of them 
was unfair. I would expect an adviser to have drawn them to Ms Os attention and then 
discussed whether a contract which used capital units was right for her circumstances. I 
dont think Zurich did anything wrong by including capital units as part of its overall charging 
structure at the time. 
Ultimately, I dont think Zurich set out unfair terms. I think the terms tried to give all 
policyholders a reasonable expectation of what they could expect to pay for the length of 
time their policy was administered. In return I think Zurich expected those policyholders to 
give their best indication of when they hoped to retire. That combination of factors gave the 
best outcome in terms of a fair and reasonable indication of costs and charges. 
It was possible to gain an advantage from simply selecting the earliest SRA, which was an 
outcome Ms O, through her adviser could have taken up. But I dont think that makes the 
contract unfair. I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong here.  
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman