DRN-3494468
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined her loan application. Mrs S also 
complains about the service provided by HSBC.
 
What happened
Mrs S has a current account and credit card with HSBC. Last year, she applied for a loan to 
purchase a car. Mrs S has told us she previously had the use of a relationship manager as a 
Premier customer. But Mrs S was asked to complete the loan application online and no 
relationship manager was made available to help. 
Mrs S applied online and gave information about her income. Mrs S also gave figures in 
respect of her monthly outgoings. HSBCs underwriters looked at Mrs S application. As part 
of the process, HSBC says Mrs S bank statements were reviewed and the income figure it 
used to assess her loan was reduced when compared with the application. 
The application was declined on an affordability basis by HSBC. Mrs S complained to HSBC 
and has explained she had to take cash from her credit card at a higher cost in order to 
complete the car purchase. Mrs S also said shed taken a loan with another business. HSBC 
didnt agree it had acted unfairly and didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs S complaint. They thought HSBC had dealt with 
Mrs S case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs S asked to appeal and explained 
she wanted to use the loan to clear her HSBC credit card debt which was subject to a higher 
interest rate. Mrs S also said HSBC shouldnt have changed her income. As Mrs S asked to 
appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An approach our rules allow 
me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this approach. 
Mrs S has told us she is unhappy that HSBC changed her income figure. I understand Mrs S 
submitted a higher figure, but HSBC has provided copies of its processing notes. They show 
an underwriter reviewed Mrs S current account for a six month period and took the income 
figure it used in the application from there. The underwriter didnt find evidence to support 
the income figure given in the application. I understand Mrs S may feel HSBC has acted 
unfairly, but Im satisfied it reasonably used the available information when assessing the 
application. I havent found that HSBC made a mistake with the income figure it used in 
Mrs S application. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but Im satisfied the application was fairly 
declined based on HSBCs lending criteria. 
Mrs S has also complained that no relationship manager was made available. But HSBC has 
confirmed the relationship managers that previously supported Premier banking customers 
no longer operate. So there was no option to complete the application by a Premier 
relationship manager. 
Mrs S complains that she wasnt contacted as promised by HSBC. But her application was 
completed on a Friday during the afternoon. It was assessed the following Tuesday, within 
two business days of submission. And the notes show Mrs S discussed the application 
outcome with HSBC later the same day. I havent found evidence of undue delays by HSBC 
when reviewing Mrs S application. 
I understand Mrs S wanted to use the loan to repay her credit card. But the credit card and 
loan are separate lending facilities. That meant, HSBC had to be sure Mrs S could afford the 
new loan. When Mrs S completed the application she said it was for the purpose of 
purchasing a car, not repaying existing debt. Whilst I understand Mrs S had already made 
other arrangements to finance the purchase, Im satisfied HSBCs review of her application 
was fair based on the information it had available  including the reason noted for borrowing. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with her complaint fairly Im not 
asking it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman