DRN-2083423
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the amount of money HSBC UK Bank Plc provided him with as part of 
his mortgage.
What happened
In 2019, Mr E ported his existing HSBC mortgage product from one property to another. His 
initial property, Property L, was sold and the proceeds of this paid off the mortgage he had 
with HSBC. At the same time, to buy his new property, Property H, Mr E took out new 
lending with HSBC under the mortgage product he had for Property L.
To clarify, whilst the mortgage product (i.e. the rate of interest and term of lending) continued 
across both properties, each property was financed by separate loans. 
In April 2019, Mr E received a mortgage offer from HSBC for a loan to be secured by 
Property H. This offer was for the sum of £66,708.11. This amount matched the balance of 
the loan secured on Property L as of 1 April 2019. In order to accept this offer, Mr Es 
solicitor, B, needed to send HSBC the Certificate of Title for Property H. 
In May and June 2019, HSBC provided a number of letters setting out the redemption 
figures for the loan secured by Property L. This amount varied, as interest accrued and Mr E 
made his monthly payments.
The redemption figure for this loan also included the possibility that an early repayment 
charge of around £900 might be charged when this loan was repaid. But the letters HSBC 
sent explained this was not due, if Mr E was porting the mortgage product to a new property 
in the manner that he was. And I have previously issued a final decision concluding that no 
early repayment charge was added to the balance of Mr Es loan(s).
At the time of the sale and purchase of the two properties, 28 June 2019, the outstanding 
balance on the loan for Property L was £65,902.16. Mr E has said that his intention was to 
merely transfer this balance onto Property H, and that he did not intend to increase the size 
of his loan. 
On 14 June 2019, B sent HSBC the Certificate of Title for Property H. This listed the 
mortgage advance as being £66,708.11 and requested these funds be provided on 27 June 
2019 for a 28 June 2019 completion. 
On 27 June 2019, HSBC sent B £66,708.11, the sum of the loan to be secured against 
Property H. And the following day B sent HSBC £65,902.16, which repaid the loan secured 
against Property L.
The difference of £805.95 has created some confusion. Mr E understood this to be an early 
repayment charge, but as Ive mentioned, I have issued a previous decision confirming this 
was not the case. But Mr E remains unhappy that he was provided with a loan secured on 
Property H that was larger than the sum he owed on Property L. 
HSBC has said that it was for Mr E, and B, to request the amount required. And that this was 
achieved by B sending HSBC the Certificate of Title. This requested a sum of £66,708.11 
and this is the amount HSBC sent B. The difference between this sum and the redemption 
figure of £65,902.16 was not returned to HSBC. So, Mr E owed the full sum of this new loan 
and HSBC considers it has acted in accordance with the instructions it was given.
HSBC did say that Mr E can repay the £805.95 he apparently did not want to borrow, and 
that no charge for doing this will be applied. But that Mr E is liable for the interest applied to 
this amount of borrowing, as he has had the benefit of these funds. 
Our investigator agreed with HSBC. She felt HSBCs responsibility was to advance the 
amount the solicitor asked for based on the mortgage facility offered. As facility of 
£66,708.11 was offered, and the solicitors requested the full facility amount, this is what 
HSBC provided. So, she didnt think it was fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible 
for Mr E being provided with a loan greater than he apparently desired. 
As Mr E remained unhappy this matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that the investigator has contacted B, which has helpfully provided us with information 
to aid our consideration of Mr Es complaint against HSBC. However, this decision is limited 
to looking at the actions of HSBC when it provided the lending to Mr E in June 2019. It is not 
within the remit of this service to consider any issues relating to third parties that are not 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. As such, whilst I have considered the 
information provided, I cannot comment on the actions of B. And have limited my 
conclusions to HSBC and Mr E.
There is no indication in this complaint that HSBC provided Mr E with a loan that was 
unaffordable to him. The amount drawn down was within that limits of the offer he was 
provided. Mr Es complaint is that he did not wish to draw down this entire facility. He 
seemingly wanted to just draw down the same amount of borrowing as was owed on 
Property L at the time of the transactions. This is understandable and is not unusual when 
customers port their mortgage product from one property to another.
However, it is also not unusual for customers to increase (or decrease) the amount of 
borrowing when porting. So, the fact that the loan provided in relation to Property H was 
greater than that owed on Property L is not in itself unusual or inappropriate. 
As such, I need to consider the instructions HSBC were given and whether they acted on 
these fairly and reasonably. 
The mortgage offer HSBC provided Mr E in April 2019 was for £66,708.11. This was the 
maximum HSBC was prepared to provide Mr E under this offer. 
It should be noted that this lending only made up a fairly small part of the purchase price for 
Property H. Mr E was apparently funding around £340,000 of the purchase through the 
residual proceeds from the sale of Property L and his own contributions. 
We have been provided with several versions of the estimated statement of account that B 
produced, showing the funding breakdown. Two are dated 25 June 2019, though one makes 
reference to actions taken after this date. Both show the financing of the purchase of Property H was to come from the proceeds of the 
sale of Property L, the £66,708.11 mortgage advance, and a contribution from Mr E. All of 
this money will have been deposited with B to allow for the purchase to be completed and for 
the loan on Property L to be redeemed.
The first estimate indicates that the cost of redeeming the loan on Property L was 
£66,799.02. The second shows that this sum was reduced to £65,902.16 due to the early 
repayment charge not being applied. 
Whilst Mr E and B will have known the details of this, I have seen no evidence that HSBC 
itself was provided with a full breakdown of the funding model. 
As such, it would not be possible for HSBC to know whether Mr E required the full 
£66,708.11 to finance the purchase of Property H, or whether he only needed the same level 
of borrowing as he owed on Property L. 
However, prior to the Certificate of Title being completed and sent to HSBC, the redemption 
statements HSBC provided would have enabled Mr E to calculate the sum due to repay the 
loan on Property L whatever the day of completion. These letters set out the outstanding 
balance, the amount of daily interest, and the potential early repayment charge. They also 
explained that this charge would not apply where a new loan was being drawn down at the 
same time, which is what Mr E was doing.
So, whilst HSBC may not have known whether the full facility was needed to purchase 
Property H, Mr E ought reasonably to have known that the sum repayable on the loan 
against Property L was £65,902.16. And if this was the amount Mr E wished to borrow 
against Property H, this is the amount that should have been requested from HSBC. 
In the event, HSBC was asked to provide the full facility of £66,708.11 and these were the 
instructions HSBC followed.
I also note that the second estimate B produced also stated that, having completed the 
purchase of Property H and the redemption of the loan on Property L, a balance of £845.39 
was due to Mr E and that this had been sent to him on 2 July 2019. 
Whether this £845.39 included the £805.95 additional borrowing or whether that money 
had been used to finance the purchase of Property H isnt clear. But I am satisfied that Mr E 
did have the benefit of these funds. And that the amount of borrowing secured against 
Property H that he received from HSBC was £66,708.11, as per the instructions HSBC 
received.
HSBC has said that Mr E can repay this additional £805.95 without any charge. But that it 
will not waive the interest applied to this. Given Mr E has apparently had the benefit of these 
funds, either in cash or used as part of the purchase of Property H, I consider this to be fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Sam ThomasOmbudsman