DRN-1695498
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that China Taiping (UK) Insurance Co Limited has turned down a storm 
damage claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, following heavy rain, Mr A suffered roof damage to his flat roof. Water had 
also got into the house and caused internal damage. So Mr A made a claim on his buildings 
insurance policy.
China Taiping appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the cause of the damage. The 
adjusters report noted there were rain storm conditions around the time of the claim. They 
found that the roof damage was down to wear and tear. And they found the internal damage 
was down to a one-off ingress of water.
Based on the adjusters report, China Taiping turned down the claim. It said that wear and 
tear and lack of maintenance were specifically excluded by the policy terms. And it said that 
if the roof had been properly maintained, water wouldnt have been able to get in and cause 
internal damage. It suggested that Mr A make a separate accidental damage claim with 
another insurer.
Mr A was unhappy with China Taipings decision and asked us to look into his complaint. In 
the meantime, he arranged for both the external and internal damage to be repaired.
Our investigator thought Mr As complaint should be partly upheld. She thought it was most 
likely the external damage was down to wear and tear. So she thought it was fair for China 
Taiping to turn down these costs. But she thought the loss adjusters evidence suggested 
the internal damage was down to the storm rains. So she felt China Taiping should pay for 
the costs of putting right the internal damage.
Neither Mr A nor China Taiping agreed. Mr A said his roofing specialist felt the roof was in a 
reasonable state of repair and the damage to it was down to the heavy rainfall. China 
Taiping maintained that if the roof had been in a good state of repair and had been 
watertight, the rain wouldnt have been able to get in. It said the internal damage wasnt 
down to storm, it was because the roof was in a poor state of repair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think China Taiping has treated Mr A fairly, so Im partly upholding 
his complaint. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
China Taiping was satisfied that there were rain storm conditions around the date of Mr As 
claim. Ive also checked the local weather reports and I can see that there was rainfall of 
34mm in a 24-hour period. I think this rainfall was sufficiently intense to be considered as a 
wet storm. The maximum wind speed during that week though was only 36 mph. So I dont 
think the wind speeds were strong enough to constitute storm.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Ive thought about this carefully. Im satisfied that internal damage can be consistent with wet 
storm conditions. But I dont think the roof damage is likely to be consistent with wet storm. I 
say that because its clear there werent storm wind conditions, which mightve been able to 
dislodge the tiles or cause roof damage. It seems unlikely that rain alone could cause 
external damage to a roof. As Im satisfied the internal damage was consistent with storm 
though, Ive gone on to consider question three.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The external roof damage
China Taipings loss adjuster had the chance to inspect the flat roof. They felt the main 
cause of the damage wasnt down to the storm rains, but because of maintenance issues. 
China Taiping reviewed the photos the adjuster had taken and noticed vegetation growing in 
parts of the roof, which it felt had likely caused cracks to it. 
I find the loss adjusters opinion persuasive. Its the only expert opinion I have to consider, 
and Mr A hasnt sent me anything to counter the loss adjusters findings. He said he wasnt 
able to find the report, or the roofer who completed it.  Its also unlikely, in the absence of 
storm winds to dislodge slates or tiles, that a well-maintained roof would let in rainwater.
So it seems most likely the main cause of the external damage was due to wear and tear 
over time. This simply isnt covered by the terms of Mr As policy. So I think it was fair for 
China Taiping to turn down the claim for the external damage.
The internal damage
China Taiping states that this damage also shouldnt be covered because it said if the roof 
had been water-tight, rain couldnt have got in and caused damage. Ive thought carefully 
about this. Ive carefully considered the loss adjusters findings. They said:
We are satisfied the internal damage has been caused by a single ingress of rainwater. 
They continued to say:
However, in the absence of extended Accidental Damage cover, Insurers may consider 
accepting liability for the internal damage under the Storm peril, given there was torrential 
rain recorded by the Met Office on the afternoon in question, which caused localised 
flooding.It seems to me, based on this evidence, that the internal damage was caused by the wet 
storm. There isnt any suggestion that water had been getting in over time. It seems that it 
was the direct result of the intense rainfall and that the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. The loss adjuster also suggested that China Taipings liability could be engaged 
under the storm section of the policy.
While the rain may not have got in if the roof had been in a good state of repair, Im 
persuaded the wet storm was the main cause of the internal damage.  So Im satisfied China 
Taiping needs to deal with the internal damage claim. Mr A has confirmed that he hasnt 
claimed on any other policy for this damage.
My final decision
I direct China Taiping (UK) Insurance Co Limited to settle Mr As claim for the internal repairs 
hes had completed, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mr A will 
need to provide China Taiping with an invoice for the repairs.
I also direct China Taiping to add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date Mr A paid his contractor until the date of settlement.
*If China Taiping considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman