DRN-3113590
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Society of Lloyds mishandled her claim on a caravan insurance
policy.
Where I refer to Lloyds, I refer to the relevant syndicate at Lloyds and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold Lloyds responsible for their actions.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a caravan first registered in October 2005. Mrs W
bought it for about £5,250.00 in 2014. From then, she insured the caravan through a broker.
In late August 2020, Mrs W made a claim for storm damage to the caravan. At first, Lloyds
offered £5,000.00 as its market value. Mrs W complained that it was a new-for-old policy. In
November 2020, Lloyds paid her £75.00 due to multiple calls and delays.
Lloyds offered £15,870.00 less £50.00 excess, that is £15,820.00. Mrs W complained to
Lloyds that its offer wasnt enough to buy an equivalent new caravan.
By a (first) final response dated 18 December 2020, Lloyds turned down the complaint. Mrs 
W brought her complaint to us in early January 2021. Lloyds wrote a second final response 
in mid-April.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
Mrs Ws premium provided her with £15,870.00 of cover. She recommended that Lloyds
should:
1. pay the claim based on a new equivalent caravan minus the additional premium that 
Mrs W should have been charged for the level of cover she needed; and
2. add 8% simple interest from the date the claim was settled to the date payment is 
made; and
3. credit Mrs W  in addition to the previous £75.00 - an additional £50.00 for trouble 
and upset.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W  
and to Lloyds on 6 October  2021. I summarise my findings:
The sum insured was lower than the sum required to buy a brand new equivalent
replacement for the caravan at the time of the loss. So  applying the policy terms   
Mrs W didnt qualify for a settlement based on a brand new equivalent replacement 
for the caravan. 
As the last renewal letter had asked Mrs W to check the sum insured, I wasnt 
minded to find it fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for the correctness of 
the sum insured.
Mrs W had received the sum insured of £15,870.00 less the £50.00 excess. For the 
reasons Id explained, I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds 
to pay Mrs W any more.
Subject to any further information from Mrs W or from Lloyds, my provisional decision was 
that I didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Society of Lloyds to do any more in 
response to this complaint.
Mrs W disagrees with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
Caravan models change very regularly. She wasnt in the market for a brand new 
one. So she didnt know the replacement value.
In 2014, she had purchased a second- hand caravan. The broker set the limit.
The transfer of the policy from the previous insurers over to Lloyds is Lloyds risk. 
She is being penalised for being a loyal customer. She never shopped around as she 
thought she was having a good deal and the policy would be fulfilled under a new- 
for- old basis should she be in a total loss position. 
On every renewal call she clarified with the call handler who took her card payment  
as to whether it was on a new for old basis and every time she was told yes. No 
one asked her to check any sums insured. She listened to all of the calls and not one 
person at any renewal call asked her to clarify if the sum insured was correct or not. 
She assumed the principles of caravan insurance are the same as buildings and 
contents insurance i.e. she would not know what it would cost to replace a TV for 
instance as it would just be replaced on a new for old basis if a claim arose. She 
wouldnt have to go around and set a monetary limit for all of her contents. The same 
would apply for buildings insurance limit - the housing market goes up and down and 
there would just be a rebuild guarantee.
If she had specified the caravan insurance limit that was, for instance, £30,000, she 
would not have received £30,000 for the caravan that was on cover as this would be 
classed as betterment and she would be overpaying on premiums which would not 
be honoured in terms of a sum insured which was not fair or correct.
All of the policy schedules state new-for-old and she assumed this would have 
superseded any monetary limits.
The claims-handlers gave her information which was not correct. They said she 
should accept £5,000.00 for her caravan.
This matter has had a huge impact on her and her family. They were on a seasonal 
pitch which they have subsequently had to give up as they were unable to purchase 
a new caravan. This has caused a lot of upset as this has been a long drawn out 
process. The investigators opinion was correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dealing with a complaint about Mrs Ws caravan insurance. Im not going to comment on 
Mrs Ws understanding of her buildings and contents insurance (which I havent seen) save 
to say that she may like to check what her policy says.
Im dealing with the complaint on the facts as I find them. I dont find it helpful to deal with 
questions about what might have happened if things had been different, such as if Mrs W 
had over-estimated the cost of replacement. 
Lloyds has named the insurance company that was responsible for the policy from 2014. So
I accept that Lloyds had no involvement with the sale of the policy, or the setting of the sum
insured for the caravan at that time.
Lloyds had no involvement until 2017. So I dont hold Lloyds responsible for the decision in 
2014 to set the sum insured at £15,870.00  even if that decision was the brokers. 
Lloyds has sent us policy terms dated 2017. So I find it likely that those policy terms applied
from 2017 until the date of the claim in 2020. From the policy terms, I note that the broker 
was (from 2017) acting as policy administrator on behalf of Lloyds. So I hold Lloyds 
responsible for the brokers actions in administering the policy from 2017. I dont agree with 
Mrs Ws suggestion that in 2017 Lloyds took on the responsibility for the decision in 2014 to 
set the sum insured at £15,870.00. 
The policy terms defined Sum Insured as the sum set out in the policy schedule. The policy 
terms also contained the following definition:
Type of Cover
Market Value  your chosen Sum Insured should represent the
amount an equivalent Caravan (make, model, year of manufacture)
would cost at the time of the loss. This is subject to the loss or
damage occurring within 25 years from purchase new.
New for Old  your chosen Sum Insured must be sufficient to buy a
brand new equivalent Caravan at the time of the loss. This is subject
to the loss or damage occurring within 15 years from purchase new.
The policy terms also included the following:
provided the Sum Insured represents the full replacement as new, at the time of
loss or damage, the Underwriters will pay for the replacement of such property as
new at the time of the loss or damage provided that the replacement article is
substantially the same as but not better than the original article as new. No deduction
will be made for wear and tear.
The policy terms also included the following:
BASIS OF CLAIMS SETTLEMENT
SECTION A(A)i Caravan
a. Market Value
b. New for Old - the Underwriter will decide whether to repair or replace the Caravanand any items of contents and personal effects that are lost or damaged. If it cannot
be repaired or is beyond economic repair they will replace it with a new one, of the
same make and model or nearest equivalent, provided the Sum Insured as stated
on your policy schedule represents the cost of a brand new equivalent
From these policy terms, new-for-old cover was dependent on a sufficient sum insured. I 
dont find that new-for-old superseded the sum insured.
Ive reviewed all the available call recordings. I place particular weight on the renewal in April
2020  as that was the last renewal before the claim.
The brokers renewal letter for the year from April 2020 included the following:
Please check the level of cover offered is appropriate for your needs and your sums
insured are correct.
The renewal letter set out the sum insured of £15,870.00 for the caravan (and additional
sums insured for contents and the awning).
From the call recording of the 2020 renewal (at about £246.00), I accept that the call-handler 
who took Mrs Ws card payment didnt prompt her to review the sum insured. But Im 
satisfied that the renewal letter had been enough of a prompt. From the call recording I find 
that Mrs W is mistaken in her recollection that she asked the call-handler about new-for-old 
or that he said anything about new-for-old. 
The policy schedule said the sum insured for the caravan was £15,870.00. The sum insured 
was lower than the sum required to buy a brand new equivalent replacement for the caravan 
at the time of the loss. So  applying the policy terms quoted above  Mrs W didnt qualify for 
a settlement based on a brand new equivalent replacement for the caravan. As the last 
renewal letter had asked Mrs W to check the sum insured, I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to hold Lloyds responsible for the correctness of the sum insured.
Mrs W has received the sum insured of £15,870.00 less the £50.00 excess. For the reasons
Ive explained, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Lloyds to pay Mrs W any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Society of Lloyds to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman