DRN-3405279
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank failed to provide 
clear information and guidance when it took the decision to close her savings account. 
What happened
Mrs C lives in Europe and had a savings account with Tesco Bank. In July 2021 Tesco Bank 
wrote Mrs C and explained that, following Brexit, it had taken the decision to close her 
account. Mrs C says Tesco failed to give information about alternative accounts or 
arrangements for closing her account and transferring the funds. 
Mrs C went on to contact Tesco Bank at the beginning of September 2021 but has told us 
she didnt hear back. Later that month, Mrs C has told us Tesco Bank contacted her online 
but she needed a UK registered mobile phone to access its correspondence. When Mrs C 
contacted Tesco Bank it said a letter would be posted to her, but none was received. 
In October 2021 Mrs C transferred the remaining funds from her account. The account was 
closed by Tesco Bank a short time later. 
Mrs C complained to Tesco Bank and it sent a letter to her previous address. Tesco Bank 
issued a final response and paid Mrs C £50 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the way it had handled her enquiries. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mrs Cs complaint but thought Tesco Bank had 
dealt with it fairly. Mrs C asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs C is aware, this case is looking at Tesco Banks actions in the run up to her account 
being closed. Im aware theres a separate case relating to correspondence that was sent to 
the wrong address. In this decision, Im only looking at the information Tesco Bank provided 
and its actions before the account was closed. 
Tesco Bank says it took a commercial decision to close Mrs Cs account following Brexit, in 
line with the terms and conditions. Ive seen the relevant terms and they allowed Tesco Bank 
to take the decision to close an account by giving notice to the customer. I appreciate 
Mrs Cs concerns relate to how Tesco Bank treated her rather than its decision to close the 
account and Ive focused on that point. 
Mrs C has explained she sought clarification from Tesco Bank as to the processes involved 
and whether alternative accounts would be offered. I can see things got difficult and Mrs C 
failed to get responses in good time. When Tesco Bank did respond, it sent correspondence 
to the wrong address (which is the subject of Mrs Cs other complaint). 
Whilst I agree there were issues and delays responding caused by Tesco Bank, I can see 
this was in part caused by the fact Mrs C doesnt have a UK based mobile phone number. I 
appreciate Mrs C lives abroad so doesnt have that facility. Tesco Bank says it sent the letter 
instead. Tesco Bank has sent in systems evidence that shows it sent a follow up letter in the 
post with the same information, setting out the steps Mrs C needed to take to withdraw her 
funds. Mrs C has told us this letter wasnt received. But Tesco Banks confirmed 
correspondence of this nature was sent via its automated system to the address it held for 
Mrs C. 
Ive looked at the systems evidence and a template of Tesco Banks letter. I appreciate it 
wasnt received by Mrs C, but Im satisfied it was correctly addressed and sent by Tesco 
Bank as claimed. 
Account statements show Mrs C was able to transfer her funds out of the savings account in 
early October 2021, before it was closed. I havent seen any evidence of a financial loss by 
Mrs C in this case. 
I agree there were unreasonable delays and the service provided to Mrs C shouldve been 
better. But the impact of the issues raised on Mrs C was limited and Im satisfied she was 
able to transfer funds without loss. Tesco Bank paid Mrs C £50 and apologised for the 
service provided. Im satisfied £50 reflects the distress and inconvenience caused and is a 
fair way to resolve Mrs Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint because the business has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman