DRN-3320947
The complaint
Mr H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2018, Mr H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr H decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Hs behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,694 to mislead Mr H, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £12,007;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr H had not thought 
it necessary to ask for a copy of the quotation afterwards;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement, the contract, and the solar quote, titled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr Hs recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mr H agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr H simply took the 
salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. So on the balance of probabilities, 
I am satisfied that the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mr H 
agreed to enter into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The contract sets out some of the information which also appears in the quote.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr H makes it clear that the overall cost of 
the system is £12,007. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the amount of 
credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr H more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mr H has alleged that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mr H has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £219.47. This figure also appears on the second page of the contract, 
above Mr Hs signature.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £395.50 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr H, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £614.97. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres another section of the quote headed Repayments with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months as this is the length of the loan that Mr H entered into with Shawbrook. This table 
shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £92.94. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £91.73, but the difference  £1.21  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for every year of the ten year loan period.
The same table also appears in the contract, above Mr Hs second signature.
I think the quote and the contract clearly set out the income Mr H could expect to receive 
from the system, by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the 
monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient 
to cover the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that he was told that the 
monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the graph below, which appears in the quote. It clearly 
shows that throughout the entire loan period, the monthly payments would always exceed 
the expected FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr H that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.21 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote, and that section of the 
contract, have both been signed by Mr H.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mr H could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This shows that by the end of year 14 the overall benefits that Mr H could expect 
to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£12,007.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr H that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 11 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced 
him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that could amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr H. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,386 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr Hs FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 3,646 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr H hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr H could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman