DRN-2561750
The complaint
Mr C complains that he cant get his money out of his accounts with Revolut Ltd (Revolut).
What happened
In February 2020 and April 2020, Mr C opened two accounts online with Revolut. They 
werent verified by Revolut. Mr C paid Euro 10 into one account and Euro 149.46 into the 
other. They were both blocked by Revolut. Mr C tried to get the money out but couldnt.
Mr C complained. He said he couldnt access his money because the accounts were 
blocked. He cant get in touch with Revolut to get things sorted out.
Revolut replied in April 2020. They said that Mr C had created a second account. This may 
have caused login problems as their systems may not locate the correct account at login. 
Theyd tried to contact Mr C through the in-app chat, but without success. They gave him 
ways to contact them  through in-app support - to sort things out.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. 
She said that Revolut had blocked Mr Cs accounts because hed open two accounts  this 
was against their terms and conditions. She said Revolut had agreed to return Mr Cs money 
to him, but he needed to contact them to make this happen. She provided a number of ways 
for Mr C to get in touch with Revolut through its online services.
Mr C asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything thats gone on here. I can sense Mr Cs frustrations. He cant get his 
money out of the two blocked accounts. He can only do this through the online app or 
desktop  Revolut cannot take telephone calls. But because his accounts are blocked, he 
cant be identified  through their remote, online methods. And he wasnt identified by 
Revolut when the accounts were first opened, so that makes matters worse. Our investigator 
has acted as go-between to try to sort out what to do. She has provided various ways as to 
what to do  all given to her by Revolut. Mr C says that none of these work for him.
My role here is to decide whether Revolut have treated Mr C fairly  or have done anything 
wrong. This service is an impartial one which aims to sort out disputes between parties.
Revolut is an online-only bank. They have no phones, call centres or branches  so I can 
see how it could be difficult to sort things like this out.
Their terms and conditions do say that customer can only open one account. They say: You 
cantopen more than one Revolut personal account.  so, Revolut were able to block 
Mr Cs accounts as hed not complied with them. And they also say: We'll usually 
communicate with you through the Revolut app. Mr C signed up to these terms  so he 
knew how Revolut worked.
I can only ask Revolut to take action if I can see if theyve done something wrong. And I 
dont think they have. Theyre an online bank with access to them only through online 
channels  thats their business model, and I cant tell them to change that. Theyve acted 
within their terms and conditions in dealing with Mr C  so I cant tell them to act differently.
And I can see that theyve tried to be as helpful as possible in trying to help Mr C to access 
his accounts  theyve given him various routes and methods to try  but Mr C says none of 
them work.
So, in all fairness, I cant say that Revolut have done anything wrong here. I know that wont 
appear helpful to Mr C - but all I can say is that he must continue to try to work through the 
various ways of contacting Revolut to work things out.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman