DRN-4126503
The complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a pension by Sturdy Edwards (Financial Services) Limited (SE). 
What happened
On SEs advice, Mr S took out a personal pension in 1988. Mr S paid monthly contributions 
to this pension and was sent annual statements by the pension provider each year. Mr S 
stopped contributing to the pension in 1991.
In April 2021, his pension provider sent Mr S a retirement pack as he was approaching his 
chosen retirement date. Mr S says this made him realise his pension wasnt index-linked as 
hed thought it was, as the value of his pension was less than he thought it should be. 
Mr S complained to SE that it had mis-sold the pension in 1988 because it hadnt told him it 
wasnt index-linked, and hadnt told him that non- index-linked pensions existed.
SE thought Mr S had complained too late. Because it was more than six years since the 
1988 advice, and it was more than three years since Mr S ought reasonably to have known 
he had cause for complaint about it from the pension annual statements and a letter in 1990. 
Mr S came to our Service. He said SE hadnt provided any evidence that it had told him his 
pension wasnt index-linked, and it had caused him a financial loss. He also mentioned SE 
hadnt told him his pension couldnt be transferred to all pension providers. And Mr S 
provided us with some documents relating to his pension. 
SE also provided us with some documents relating to Mr Ss pension. It pointed out that 
Mr S paid about £840 in total into his pension and it was now worth over £4,000, so it had 
outgrown inflation anyway. And it didnt consent to our Service considering Mr Ss complaint.
Our Investigator thought Mr S had complained in time as there was nothing prior to the 2021 
retirement pack that ought reasonably to have made him aware he had cause for complaint 
about the 1988 advice. But she said SE wasnt responsible for Mr Ss incorrect 
understanding that his pension would be index-linked at retirement, and shed not seen 
enough evidence to say it had otherwise mis-sold him the pension.
SE received our Investigators view and commented that Mr Ss complaint had no merit.
Mr S thought hed complained in time and that SE hadnt consented to us considering his 
complaint because it knew it had mis-sold his pension in 1988. He said SE hadnt told him 
about the time limit rules, which he saw to be further evidence it had mis-sold his pension. 
Our Investigator didnt change her view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint 
was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
Whilst that referral was underway, SE provided us with further comments in which it 
speculated about what Mr S might think shouldve been index-linked. SE said his retirement 
income could be index-linked by buying an annuity and this was an option set out in Mr Ss 
2021 retirement pack. But managed funds, as Mr S was invested in, werent index-linked. 
And Mr S couldve seen that his pension contributions werent index-linked as they didnt 
increase. SE thought Mr S was looking to place blame for his pension not being worth more.
Mr S also provided further comments. In summary, he reiterated that he thought SE had 
tried to use the time limits against him, that it hadnt provided any evidence to show it had 
told him his pension wasnt index-linked, and that SEs failure to give him this basic 
information in 1988 and in its 1990 letter had caused him a financial loss. 
This complaint has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first matter to address here is whether this complaint has been brought in time under the 
Dispute Resolution rules set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. But I note 
that from SEs responses to our Investigators view of this complaint, it seems SE no longer 
objects to our Service considering this complaint. Therefore, I dont think I need to consider 
the matter of time limits any further here. 
So Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Ss complaint. The crux of it is that Mr S thought 
his pension would be index-linked on maturity because SE never told him that it wasnt 
index-linked, or that index-linked pensions existed. And that this caused him a financial loss. 
I note that when Mr S came to our Service, he also mentioned that SE never warned him his 
pension couldnt be transferred to all pension providers. But Ive not seen that this is a 
complaint point Mr S has raised with SE before now, so its not something Ive considered in 
this decision. If Mr S wanted to complain about this point, hed need to raise it with SE in the 
first instance. And if he was unhappy with its response to that new complaint, he may refer it 
to our Service for an impartial investigation. 
So the crux of the complaint Im looking at in this decision is that SE never told Mr S his 
pension wasnt index-linked, or that index-linked pensions existed. More than 30 years have 
passed since the 1988 advice and this means both SE and Mr S now only hold limited 
documentary evidence from that time. But Ive considered whats been provided to me, and 
this includes Mr Ss testimony about what was discussed and what happened at the time of 
the advice. 
Based on Mr Ss testimony, it seems he simply assumed all pensions are index-linked. And 
he says SE hasnt been able to provide any evidence that it had told him his pension wasnt 
index-linked. The pension documents Ive seen show that Mr Ss personal pension was 
invested in a with-profits fund. Theres nothing in any of the pension documents either SE or 
Mr S have provided to suggest that Mr Ss pension would be index-linked.
Its important to note that the purpose of the documents SE wouldve provided to Mr S about 
his pension at the time of the advice was, broadly speaking, to outline how his pension 
would work. So its not reasonable to expect those documents to have exhaustively set out 
all the ways Mr Ss pension wouldnt work. But it is reasonable to think that if Mr S had any 
questions or concerns about how his pension worked, then he would have raised these with 
SE before accepting its advice. But Ive seen nothing in the evidence provided to me, 
including Mr Ss testimony, to suggest Mr S raised any such questions or concerns with SE. 
Ultimately, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to hold SE responsible for Mr Ss incorrect assumption that his pension was index-linked, when this wasnt something that SE had 
suggested to him and it wasnt something hed asked SE about at the time. 
For these reasons, Im not asking SE to do anything here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman