DRN-3506273
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly 
declined to pay costs related to an escape of water claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs H contacted RSA to report an escape of water.
RSA sent an agent to inspect the damage. 
An inspector from the local water authority attended the property. Mr and Mrs H have 
said they were told by them to have the affected pipe replaced as a localised repair 
would likely lead to a further leak in the future.
Mr and Mrs H appointed their own contractors to resolve the issue and replace the 
affected pipe. These costs came to around £1,770.
RSA accepted the claim but said it would only pay Mr and Mrs H the sum it wouldve 
cost its own contractor to repair the pipe, not replace it, in line with its policy terms.
Following Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, RSA stood by its position on the claim but 
acknowledged mistakes in its handling, offering £100 in compensation.
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator initially didnt uphold the 
complaint, saying the policy terms allowed RSA the choice of how to settle the claim. 
And as RSA says it wouldve been able to repair the pipe, it wasnt required to cover 
additional works.
The Investigator also recognised mistakes RSA had made, particularly around 
communication and needing to chase for information. She felt the £100 
compensation was sufficient to recognise the impact caused by its mistakes.
Mr H disagreed, commenting that RSAs suggestion that replacing a 50-year-old 
length of pipe was betterment was disingenuous  which wouldve prevented 
problems in the future and was in line with the water authority inspector. He also 
sought to claim an additional £500 for repairs to his concrete drive. And he stressed 
the impact this claim had on him and Mrs H.
The Investigator looked again and didnt change her mind on the claim and said 
RSAs settlement included appropriate costs for the drive. But in light of Mr and Mrs 
Hs comments felt the impact was greater than previously recognised, recommending 
RSA pay £175 in compensation.
RSA agreed, but Mr H didnt. Reiterating the advice that he was given by the water 
authority inspector.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim
Mr and Mrs Hs claim for escape of water has been accepted. So, I have to consider 
if RSA has acted fairly when settling the claim.
The policy says RSA will pay for the cost of work carried out in repairing or replacing 
the damaged parts of the buildings and agreed fees and related costs. This decision 
in how to settle the claim falls to RSAs discretion, providing the works would be 
effective and lasting. 
The policy goes on to say:
The amount we will pay where repairs are carried out will not exceed the lesser of:
o the cost of the work had it been completed by our nominated contractor,
othe cost of the work based upon the most competitive estimate or tender from 
your nominated contractors.
RSAs experts have said they couldve completed a spot repair of the section of 
damaged pipe. Ive been given no independent expert opinion to persuade me that 
this repair wouldnt have been possible nor lasting and effective. And so, on its face, I 
think its reasonable for RSA to rely on the opinion of its experts, and I wouldnt 
expect it to cover unnecessary or preventative works. 
I recognise the replacement of a length of pipe may avoid future issues. So, I accept 
Mr H was likely given this information from the water authority inspector and his own 
contractor. But the insurance simply doesnt cover preventative measures  and as 
Ive said, Ive been given no expert commentary or evidence to show this necessary 
to complete an effective and lasting repair. 
So overall, Im satisfied RSAs commentary about the replacement of the pipe being 
betterment is accurate. And Im not directing it to cover anything further.
I also recognise Mr Hs experience in these matters. But his commentary hasnt 
persuaded me the replacement of the pipe is the only way of completing a lasting 
and effective repair in this instance.
Claims handling
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide 
appropriate information on a claims progress. In this case, it seems RSA hasnt met 
these obligations, I say this in light of poor communication in places, which it has 
acknowledged. I wont repeat the details of this here as it has been detailed by our 
Investigator and RSA previously.
Ive thought carefully about these impacts on Mr and Mrs H in light of their personal 
circumstances, and Im satisfied the Investigators recommendation of £175 
compensation is a fair and reasonable sum to account for RSAs mistakes.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs H £175 in compensation in total for its mistakes in handling this 
complaint. It may deduct from this sum, any amount already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman