DRN-3577405
The complaint
Mr B complains about the delays by AXA Insurance UK Plc when dealing with an escape of 
water claim on his Property Investors Protection Plan Policy. 
What happened
Mr B noticed water damage in his flat, so he claimed on his policy with AXA. It was 
discovered the waste pipe from the bath had been leaking and this was the cause of the 
damage. AXA accepted the claim and arranged to fix the leak and repair the damage. 
Unfortunately, the time taken to repair the damage by the leak has taken longer than it 
should, work was also not been completed to the correct standard and needed to be 
rectified. Not all areas of damage were initially discovered and additional damage has been 
caused by AXA when working in Mr Bs flat. Mr B complained to AXA about the length of 
time the claim was taking, not being offered alternative accommodation and not having his 
belongings stored correctly. 
As Mr B didnt get a response to his complaints, he referred his complaints here. Due to all 
the issues with the claim AXA then issued three final responses to address different 
concerns Mr B had raised about the claim. These are dated 3 June 2021, 7 July 2021, and 
13 July 2021. In the final response letters AXA acknowledged the errors and poor claim 
handling and offered Mr B a total of £2,300 compensation for the poor claim handling. Mr B 
said hed identified more issues and further delays with the ongoing work and didnt think 
AXAs compensation was sufficient. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaints but thought AXAs offer of compensation of 
£2,300 was enough to compensate Mr B for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
suffered up until 13 July 2021. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said his claim was still 
ongoing and had been for over a year now. He said he thought around £5,000 would be 
sufficient compensation for all the errors and how long the claim has been ongoing. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Bs claim has taken considerably longer than it should. Its now also been well 
over a year since Mr B claimed. I appreciate this is disappointing and frustrating for him but 
in this decision, Im only considering the delays in Mr Bs claim up until 13 July 2021 when 
AXA issued the third final response letter. 
When AXA deals with a claim it needs to do so promptly. How long this will be will depend 
on the claim itself, however in this case its not in dispute that there have been multiple 
unacceptable failings by AXA. What I need to consider is whether AXA have done enough to 
put things right up until 13 July 2021. And Im satisfied they have. 
I understand Mr B has not had use of all of his property, because there has been mould and 
damp which he and his partner have had to live with, along with the health impacts that has. 
Furthermore, Ive also considered that the issues with his claim occurred when the country 
was in a national lockdown, and while that caused more issues for Mr B, it would also have 
created challenges for AXA too. 
When Ive considered AXAs response, I can see it has acknowledged the errors across the 
three final response letters and offered £2,300 compensation. This is to compensate Mr B 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience hes suffered from February 2020 until 13 
July 2021. When taking into account the awards this service makes, Im satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable amount for the delays in dealing with Mr Bs claim during that time. I say this 
because I can also see Mr B has other complaints with AXA for further issues with his claim, 
so when looking at the whole claim its possible further compensation maybe the fair and 
reasonable outcome for Mr Bs for those other issue. When considering the time frame Im 
looking at and the impact that had, Im satisfied what AXA has offered is fair and reasonable. 
And while Im aware this is disappointing to Mr B, Im not going to tell AXA to pay anymore 
for the delays up until 13 July 2021. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plcs offer of 
compensation of £2,300 is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr B up until 13 July 2021. If 
this hasnt already been paid AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to pay this amount to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman