DRN-3341605
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Skyfire Insurance Company Limited declined his motor insurance claim. 
For the purposes of this decision my references to Skyfire also include reference to any of 
Skyfires agents.
What happened
On 14 January 2021 Mr M was unfortunately in a road traffic accident.
Mr M contacted Skyfire to report the incident. During the call Mr M let Skyfire know the
accident had happened on his way to work.
Shortly after this Skyfire confirmed to Mr M that he would not be covered for the claim as he
did not have cover for commuting under his motor insurance policy. Mr M therefore raised a
complaint with Skyfire and also expressed his concern that it was not clear to him at the
outset that cover for commuting was not included in his policy.
Skyfire didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as they said they had acted fairly in declining the
claim. Mr M offered to pay any shortfall in premiums to include commuting in his cover-
Skyfire didnt agree to this. Mr Ms policy remained in force until the end of its term (15
February 2021) at which time Mr M changed his insurance provider.
Skyfire told this service they paid the third-party insurer £1,626 in costs and said they are
entitled to pursue Mr M for these costs. However, Skyfire agreed they didnt help Mr
M enough when dealing with the recovery of his car, and so they agreed to pay Mr M the
costs (plus interest at 8% simple per annum) of storing his car at the salvage yard, as well as
£75 for the inconvenience to Mr M of having to sort this out.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint and said Skyfires approach to settling this 
matter was reasonable. Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
I issued my provisional findings to both parties upholding Mr Ms complaint. My findings were 
as follows: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the policy Mr M arranged with Skyfire did not include cover for
commuting. However, to help decide whether Skyfire have treated Mr M fairly in the handling
of this claim Ive considered what Mr M has said about when he took out the policy and that
he believed he had taken out cover for commuting.
Mr Ms submissions are that he thought hed taken out cover for commuting. He told us hed
taken out cover for commuting on his previous policies (and hes provided supporting
evidence of this). Mr M explained this was the first time he had taken a policy
with Skyfire and said the information on Skyfires website (not the aggregators
website Skyfire mentions below) was misleading, and he didnt see anything in the
documentation that said commuting wasnt covered. Mr M said he thought hed taken out
comprehensive cover which was pre-selected on the website and he thought that therefore
included everything. He said the other drop-down box was also pre-selected with social,
domestic and pleasure and he placed weight on the policy being comprehensive so
it therefore covered all eventualities. Mr M told us he works in an industry where theres no
requirement to understand insurance so he wasnt aware that he needed to hover over
information on the webpage.
Skyfire said Mr M took his policy out through an aggregator website and he was asked on
the aggregator site, what do you use the car for? Skyfire said the options displayed
alongside this question set out the different levels of cover to choose from with the
documentation that was then made available to Mr M making it clear what cover he had.
Skyfires submissions to this service note that when Mr M first reported the incident to them
on 14 January 2021 he told them he was commuting and they let him know that he didnt
have this cover under his policy. Skyfire note that Mr M said he was sure hed included cover
for commuting and asked them to check again as he had always taken this out on his
previous policies. Skyfire confirmed again that he didnt have this cover. Skyfire said that on
18 January 2021 Mr M called them again to say he thought he had commuting cover and
asked if he could pay the difference in premium, which they didnt agree to.
Ive reviewed the submissions from both parties and the sample screenshots that have been
provided to show the relevant webpages. Theres nothing to suggest Mr M deliberately didnt
select commuting when making his application for motor insurance. The available
documentation does not say he is covered for this  but Im mindful Mr Ms submissions
relating to his understanding of the website are consistent and his previous insurance
policies appear to have included cover for commuting. Mr M also openly declared
to Skyfire that he was commuting at the time of the incident.
Skyfire has confirmed that had Mr M selected commuting as part of his cover they wouldve
accepted his application and still issued him with a policy. A policy including cover
for commuting wouldve cost Mr M £981.75, this was £9.72 more than Mr Ms actual policy
cost of £972.03.
In view of the above, I am minded to give Mr M the benefit of the doubt on this occasion as
his submissions are plausible and in view of the small difference in premiums and his history
of taking commuting on his previous motor insurance policies I think it more likely than not
that Mr M intended to include cover for commuting under his insurance. Cost was also
unlikely to have been a dissuading factor given the difference was less than £10 and Mr M
has said he used his car for commuting.
However, in the circumstances I dont think it would be fair for Skyfire to pay for the full claim
as Mr M did not pay for the full premium. I therefore believe Skyfire should pay a proportion
of the claim reflecting the amount of premium Mr M paid for. This means they should pay for
99% of the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
It's not clear if Skyfire has already paid Mr M any of the costs associated with the storage of
the car. If not, then Skyfire should also pay 8% simple interest per annum, on this element of
the claim from the date Mr M paid the storage costs to the date of payment. The £75 should
also be paid to Mr M if Skyfire has not already paid this.In view of this, Mr M is therefore responsible for meeting 1% of the total claim cost.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr M replied and said the matter had caused him a significant amount of stress, and the 
declined claim had led to him incurring a number of additional costs to help him manage day 
to day. While Mr M said he felt he was due further compensation to reflect these things he 
said he would be happy to settle the matter as put forward in my provisional decision. 
Skyfire replied to my provisional decision to say they were disappointed with the findings, but 
had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Im aware of Mr Ms feelings about the impact the issue with the claim has caused 
him, Ive noted his preparedness to accept a resolution based on what Ive set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive therefore not considered anything further. 
And as Skyfire has also not provided any further submissions or evidence for me to review, I 
find there is no reason to alter my conclusions as set out in my provisional decision. 
That is, I find it more likely than not that given his version of events, Mr M intended to have 
insurance for using his car to commute to work - this had been included on his previous 
policies and as there was a small difference in premium to provide cover for commuting 
there was no financial obstacle to selecting this level of cover. I therefore uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and have set out how Skyfire should now put things right. 
Putting things right
As Ive said above, Skyfire Insurance Company Limited should pay the proportion of the 
claim reflecting the amount of premium Mr M paid. So Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
should pay 99% of the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. And 
Mr M should meet 1% of the total claim cost. 
Neither party confirmed to me if Skyfire Insurance Company Limited had already paid Mr M 
the costs associated with storing the car or if Skyfire Insurance Company Limited had paid 
Mr M the £75 compensation. 
If they have not already done so, Skyfire Insurance Company Limited should therefore also 
pay the storage costs and 8% simple interest per annum on the storage costs from the date 
Mr M paid for these costs to the date of settlement. And pay Mr M £75 if this has not already 
been paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr Ms complaint is upheld and Skyfire 
Insurance Company Limited should settle the matter as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman