DRN-2378191
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc dealt with his complaint about a claim 
he made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
In April 2015 Mr A bought two sofas and a footstool from a furniture store (the store). He 
says he noticed the colour fading after a couple of years but as he had a serious health 
concern and didnt want additional stress, he didnt raise this as an issue at the time. In 2019 
he contacted the store to say he thought the sofas had a manufacturing defect. He also 
made a claim under Section 75 against Hitachi as it had financed the sofas through a fixed 
sum loan.
Hitachi thought the sofas were suffering from wear and tear rather than a manufacturing 
defect. It told Mr A, to resolve the complaint, the store had offered - as a gesture of goodwill - 
to repair the sofas. Hitachi offered - also as a gesture of goodwill - to refund to Mr A the cost 
of an independent report hed paid for and pay him £150 compensation. Hitachi thought the 
offer from the store alongside its own was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He maintained the sofas were faulty and was concerned the 
repair offered by the store would only be a short-term solution. He brought the complaint to 
our service for an independent review.
An investigator looked into the matter. He concluded, in summary, that there was most likely 
a manufacturing defect with the sofas. But he thought the offers from the store and Hitachi 
were enough to put things right. He didnt think Hitachi needed to do anything more. Mr A 
remained of the opinion repairs werent a fair remedy, so he asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
What Im considering and why
Mr A bought the sofas using a fixed sum loan with Hitachi. Under Section 75, in 
certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Hitachi as he does the 
supplier (the store) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. My role isnt to decide Hitachis liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute 
requires me to, I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any 
relevant law, such as the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
In this case Mr A is the debtor, Hitachi is the creditor and the store is the supplier. 
There were no other parties involved so Im satisfied the necessary debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship exists for Mr A to make a claim under Section 75 against 
Hitachi. The sofas cost £3,171, so Im also satisfied this claim falls within the financial 
limits of Section 75. 
Ive looked at whether theres been a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the 
supply of the sofas to Mr A. Mr A has explained the sofas have leather raised seams 
on both the lower and back cushions, which lost their colour within about two years, 
leaving a contrasting light brown colour below. In his view the sofas look rather 
unsightly, which shouldnt be the case given how little time hes had them. 
The Sale of Goods Act 1979 implies a term into the contract between Mr A and the 
store that the sofas should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances, such as the age and cost of the sofas at the point of sale. Satisfactory 
quality includes their general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. If 
the sofas supplied to Mr A werent of satisfactory quality, it follows that theres been a 
breach of contract on the part of the store.
The store supplied Mr A with brand new sofas (and a footstool) costing £3,171. I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
higher than a second-hand, or cheaper, set. And that the set could be used - free 
from defects - for a considerable period of time.
The three inspections
An insurance claim was made over accidental damage to one of the sofas. The 
insurer had the alleged accidental damage inspected in June 2019. Two areas of 
damage were identified. Mr A explained the cause of the damage as 1) his dog 
scratched at an area, and 2) his childs hair cosmetics came in to contact with an 
area. The inspector concluded the damage to both areas was the result of wear and 
tear rather than accidental damage, so the insurer declined the accidental damage 
claim. The inspector didnt comment on anything other than the damaged areas Mr A 
had claimed for. 
Mr A didnt accept the conclusion the insurers inspector reached so he instructed 
one of his own. This took place in August 2019 and cost Mr A £285. The report 
contains a lot of detail about the accidental damage Mr A had claimed for, the 
general condition of the sofas and footstool, and concludes that the sofas have a 
severe manufacturing and finishing defect found with the leather sealant layer as 
listed above.. The reasoning behind this conclusion is that the leather sealant layer, 
which should remain fully intact for the lifetime of the sofas (which the inspector says 
is 8-10 years), has greatly diminished. And that this issue will only worsen and 
continue to prematurely wear and age the look of the sofas. The report goes on to 
give insight on repairs, but Ill come on to those later. I find this report persuasive 
given the detail it contains, the reasoning given, the use of equipment (eye glass tool 
and an onsite microscope device) and the many photographs which support the 
conclusions reached.
In October 2019 the store sent someone to inspect the sofas. I havent been provided 
with their full findings, but I can see from a communication between the store and 
Hitachi that the conclusion was: Colour loss on the high seams. This is with use and 
friction 4.5yrs old not a manu fault. Within the same communication the store said as 
a gesture of goodwill it would pad out one seat and touch up the colour on the raised 
seams. According to Mr A, the inspector wasnt aware of the June or August 2019 
inspections, didnt do a thorough inspection and simply took photographs with a mobile phone. Given the lack of detail and Mr As comments (which I have no reason 
to doubt) I dont think I can rely too heavily on this inspection.
Has there been a breach of contract on the part of the supplier?
Overall, Im more persuaded by the August 2019 inspection. So, I think its most likely 
theres a manufacturing and finishing defect with the sofas which means theyre 
either not fit for purpose, or not sufficiently durable. This means I dont think the sofas 
supplied to Mr A were of satisfactory quality. It follows that I think there was a breach 
of contract on the part of the supplier for which - under Section 75 - Mr A has an 
equal right to claim for against Hitachi. 
Whats a fair remedy?
The supplier has offered to repair the sofas by padding out one seat and touching up 
the colour on the raised seams. Mr A was open to a repair but wasnt given the 
assurances he felt he needed around their practicality and effectiveness. 
The August 2019 inspection says the following:
In terms of the repair aspect of the suite, this will require the full uplift to a suitable 
workshop, complete stripping of the old/existing seat back and arm cushion covers/ 
carcasses including fillings and a full re upholster with new interiors and leather 
covers throughout. The estimated cost for this would vastly outweigh the original 
purchase price at this point and therefore not a recommended course of remedial 
action for rectification. 
This sets out the need for a much more substantial repair than the store has offered 
to undertake. However, given the findings of the August 2019 report and the 
photographs Ive seen, it seems to me more is needed than a touch up. Im not 
persuaded the stores offer goes far enough.
That being said, Im not persuaded repair is the appropriate action here anyway. If a 
repair in line with what the August 2019 inspector has suggested were to take place, 
Mr A would be without his sofas while the repair took place. I dont think this is 
something hed welcome given his health concerns. Im also mindful that a repair 
may not be economical for (or fair on) Hitachi. Ive thought about whether a 
like-for-like replacement would be a suitable alternative. But I think sourcing such a 
suite would be impractical given the sofas are part of a matching set and because of 
the sets age. 
This leaves a refund. The sofas should have had a lifespan of 8-10 years. Mr A has 
had them for several years. I accept hes been unhappy with them and to some 
extent, embarrassed by them, for quite some time. But he has had use of them. So I 
dont think a full refund would be fair. In my view, however, a partial refund would be. 
There are number of ways this could be reasoned out. But Im inclined to say a 50% 
refund is the fair one. This is because by the time Mr A received Hitachis final 
response letter (19 March 2020) hed had the sofas for about five years. Its at this 
point I think Hitachi should have accepted his claim and offered a fair remedy. 
To resolve this complaint, Im currently minded to order Hitachi to take possession of 
the sofas (and the footstool) at no cost to Mr A, and refund to Mr A half of the cost of 
the set (£1,585.50), plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date of its final 
response letter to the date of settlement. Hitachi has already repaid Mr A the cost of the inspection he arranged and paid him 
£150 compensation. I think this means Mr A hasnt lost out financially because of this 
matter and I consider £150 fairly reflects the impact any shortcomings in customer 
service regarding Hitachis claim handling had on him. So I dont intend to make a 
further award here. 
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold this complaint and order Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
Take possession of the sofas and footstool, at no cost to Mr A.
Pay Mr A £1,585.50 plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of its 
final response letter to the date of settlement.
Mr A and Hitachi responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mr A raised some 
concerns about how and when the collection of the sofas and footstool would take place. 
Following contact from the investigator he agreed to liaise with Hitachi/the store regarding 
this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see now reason to change my mind. 
Putting things right
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should:
Take possession of the sofas and footstool, at no cost to Mr A. Hitachi should liaise 
with Mr A so that this can be undertaken with minimal inconvenience to him.
Pay Mr A £1,585.50 plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of its final 
response letter to the date of settlement.
*If Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to settle the complaint in line with 
what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman