DRN-3473103
The complaint
Mr C has complained through a representative that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading 
as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) mis-sold him loans he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr C with three loans between May 2017 and December 2018. A 
summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amount 
new 
moneyagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £3,000.00 05/05/2017 11/12/2017 36 £165.51
2 £2,000.00 11/12/2017 31/12/2018 36 £264.04
3 £700.00 31/12/2018 26/12/2021 30 £281.67
Mr C had some repayment problems while repaying loan 3, but this was fully repaid following 
him entering a repayment plan.
Also, in the loan table above, the loan amount is only the new money that was advanced to 
Mr C.
Mr C was advanced £2,000 for loan 2 but he also had to borrow an additional £2,786.01 to 
repay loan 1. So, Mr C borrowed nearly £4,800. This meant the total amount Mr C was 
expected to repay Likely Loans for loan 2 was £9,505.44.
The same situation arose for loan 3. Although Mr C borrowed £700 new money, he also 
borrowed £3,993.17 to repay loan 2. This meant Mr C was lent nearly £4,700. The total 
amount Mr C was due to repay for loan 3 was £8,450.10.
Mr C, through his representative complained to Likely Loans and received its final response 
letter on 6 June 2021. It explained that it wasnt upholding Mr Cs complaint about his three 
loans.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She concluded Likely Loans 
had acted reasonably when it approved the first two loans in the table above. No mention 
was made of loan 3 in the assessment.
The adjudicator concluded Likely Loans had carried out proportionate checks which showed 
Likely Loans Mr C was likely in a position to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making.
Mr Cs credit file did show some adverse credit file data, but this was recorded after loans 1 
and 2 were advanced. Mr Cs bank statements also showed some returned direct debits in 
March and April 2017 but after that date there were no other repayment problems. Likely 
Loans didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Mr C, through his representative, didnt accept the findings and asked for the case to be 
passed to an ombudsman. Mr Cs representative provided additional comments to 
demonstrate why it disagreed with the outcome, in summary it said:
A summary of the adverse credit file data which wouldve been seen by Likely Loans 
on Mr Cs credit file.
Information from Mr Cs bank statements that ought to have highlighted that he was 
having problems such as returned direct debits and how overdrawn he was.
In the representatives view, the credit file and the bank statement, clearly show 
Mr C was in financial stress and hardship and if the appropriate checks had been 
carried out than the loans wouldnt have been advanced.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision explaining what compensation Likely Loans needed to pay for loan 
three.  The findings of the provisional decision are set out below in smaller font and italics 
and this forms part of the final decision.  
What I said in the provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under the loan agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Likely Loans asked Mr C for his annual income and he declared he earned
£18,000  which confirmed a monthly amount of just over £1,200. Mr C also declared the
purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation.
Likely Loans carried out a credit check which showed it that Mr C had around £4,000 of
current outstanding debt along with 11 active credit accounts  and Likely Loans knew how
this figure was arrived at. For example, it was aware that Mr C had 4 credit and / or store
cards.
The remainder of the credit checks didnt show any recent defaults or other forms of
insolvency. But it was aware some 32 months prior there had been some delinquent
information recorded on his credit file.
Overall, it calculated that Mr C was committed to paying around £197 per month in order to
service these outstanding commitments.
On top of credit commitments, Likely Loans may have used Office of National Statistics data
(ONS) to assess what other living costs he may have had. This is because at the time the
loan was approved Mr C declared he didnt have any living costs.
Once this check was completed, along with the credit search and the monthly repayment to
Likely Loans it calculated Mr C had around £358 left over each month as disposable income.
Based on its checks, Likely Loans concluded that Mr C was in a position to repay his loan as and 
when the payments became due.
Ive considered the credit file that Mr Cs representative provided the Financial Ombudsman
in response to the adjudicators assessment. But much of the adverse information it has
highlighted in was recorded in 2018, which is after this loan was granted. So, Likely Loans
wouldnt have been aware of it at the time it made the decision to lend.
Given the term of the loan and the amount being advanced, I think Likely Loans ought to
have undertaken further checks in order to make sure the loan repayments were affordable
and sustainable for Mr C. Especially in light of the fact that no living costs appear to havebeen taken at the time of application. So, I do think Likely Loans checks needed to go
further than relying on the income that Mr C had declared.
Mr Cs representative has provided the Financial Ombudsman with copies of bank
statements for the period of time leading up to this loan being advanced. So, I dont think its
unreasonable to have considered these in order to understand what Likely Loans may have
discovered had it made better checks.
I think if Likely Loans wouldve carried out further checks it still wouldve still concluded the
loan was affordable for Mr C. There arent any indicators in my view that wouldve led it to
conclude the loan was affordable. For example, there is no evidence of other high cost or
short-term lending or evidence of Mr C spending money on unsustainable items.
I appreciate, that there was a direct debt reversal in March 2017  so a few months before
this loan, but this on its own isnt sufficient for me to be able to say that Mr C was having
financial difficulties  although I accept repeated direct debit reversals could be a sign of
financial difficulties.
Equally, while Mr C was making use of the overdraft that in itself isnt enough for me to be
able to conclude that the lending wasnt affordable for Mr C. He seems to have been using
the overdraft as and when he needed it, which I think was reasonable.
Overall, while I have some concerns about the level and type of check that Likely Loans
carried out before this loan was approved, based on the information Ive seen, I dont think
further checks wouldve led Likely Loans to a different decision. It was therefore reasonable
for Likely Loans to have advanced this loan.
Loan 2
Up until the point loan 2 was advanced (which closed loan 1) Mr Cs repayment history didnt
show any obvious signs of repayment problems.
As I explained at the start of this decision, Mr C took £2,000 new money and then further
funds to repay what was left (after an interest rebate on loan 1). Overall, the total amount
Mr C was committed to repaying for loan 2 was £9,505.44.
It seems based on what Likely Loans told the Financial Ombudsman that similar checks
were carried out for this loan as they were for loan 1. It recorded and used a monthly income figure of 
£2,271. Again, it seems that Mr C didnt declare any outgoings but had Likely Loans used the ONS 
data at the time, it wouldve suggested a monthly expenditure figure or around £750. Taking account 
of the credit commitment it was aware off, the living costs and loan repayment Mr C wouldve been left 
with around £863 per month in disposable income.
It also has provided a summary of the credit check that it carried out. Mr Cs overall
indebtedness had increased since loan 1, but this is likely due to Mr C being advanced loan
1. Looking at it in the round, the credit file contained similar information to what Likely Loans
saw for loan 1.
Based on Likely Loans checks, it wouldve concluded the loan was affordable for Mr C.
However, Mr C had returned for more lending and his monthly repayment was increasing by
around £100 and he was committing himself to repayments for a further 3 years, after
already repaying Likely Loans for six months. The fact that at the time Likely Loans appears
to not have taken any information from Mr C about his living costs ought to have led it to
carry checks to have verified what Mr C was declaring.
I again, have a copy of Mr Cs actual credit report, while this was generated in 2021, it does
cover the period of time when this loan was approved. I can again see a number of defaults,
but these were recorded in 2018 and later, which is after this loan was approved. So, they
arent relevant to my consideration of what Mr Cs financial situation was at the time this loan
was approved.Ive also considered the bank statements that have been provided. But, like loan 1, I dont
think there is quite enough to be able to uphold this loan. I accept that Mr C was in receipt of
benefits, as the representative pointed out but that wouldnt be enough to say that Mr Cs
complaint should be upheld, and neither can I say that use of an overdraft would lead to an
uphold. Especially, as Mr C is not constantly overdrawn for the whole month, he goes
overdrawn but then funds are credited which take the account into credit.
When looking at the statements it seems he was managing his credit commitments and
didnt, like at loan 1 have outstanding high cost or other short-term credit commitments and
wasnt spending his money on unsustainable sources.
Overall, I think Likely Loans couldve carried out further checks before this loan was
approved, but even if it had done so, it still wouldve, in my view, reasonably taken the
decision to advance this loan to Mr C.
Loan 3
Likely Loans has accepted that this loan should be upheld in its cover letter to the Financial
Ombudsman Service. In providing its file, Likely Loans said the following:
After reviewing the information available, I conclude that the third top up loan should
be upheld. If more questions had been asked, it may have become apparent that this
loan was not suitable.
However, it didnt provide details as to the compensation that it would pay for this loan.
So, I no longer think I need to make a finding about this loan. But I have included this loan in
the redress below for what Likely Loans needs to do in order to put things right for Mr C.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Likely Loans and Mr C were asked to provide anything further for my consideration as 
soon as possible, but no later than 20 May 2022. 
Mr Cs representative told us that Mr C was happy to accept the findings made in the 
provisional decision. 
Likely Loans didnt respond to the provisional decision.
The deadline for responses has now passed so, I see no reason to delay the issuing of the 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has accepted the findings of the provisional decision and because Likely Loans hasnt 
provided any further information or additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
So, I dont think Mr C shouldve been advanced his third loan and Ive outlined below what 
Likely Loans needs to do in order to put things right for Mr C. 
Putting things rightI think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the total amount advanced for loan 3 
(including the amount that went towards repaying loan 2) that he borrowed in respect of loan 
3, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded Likely Loans 
shouldnt have provided the loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees from the 
amounts due under the loan agreement.
Likely Loans should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the total amount advanced for Loan 
3;
treat any payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mr C has paid more than the capital, then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the overpayments arose to 
the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about Loan 3 from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint in part.
OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED should put thing right for Mr C as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman