DRN-1658520
The complaint
Miss G and Mr G complain that, in 2006, HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold Mr G a packaged 
bank account (PBA). Mr G says HSBC made him believe that, if he didnt take the PBA, he 
wouldnt be able to open a bank account at all. He says he was forced to take it. He also 
says the PBA was sold to him without proper explanation. 
What happened
Mr G had had a bank account with HSBC since September 2005. At first this was a basic 
bank account; but it was then changed to a standard current account in January 2006. 
These accounts didnt have account fees. 
Then in April 2006, the account was changed to an HSBC Plus account. This was a PBA, 
which had a monthly fee of £12.95, and came with benefits including worldwide travel 
insurance, fee-free cash withdrawals abroad, and a 2% discount off the standard overdraft 
interest rate.
Miss G joined the account in 2008. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss G and Mr G didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G says HSBC made him believe that, if he didnt take the PBA, he wouldnt be able to 
open a bank account at all. He says he was forced to take it. He also says the PBA was sold 
to him without proper explanation. He says that he didnt have good knowledge of how 
things worked in the UK, and that his English wasnt very good. 
Ive looked at these points, but also generally at whether the PBA was mis-sold.
One problem I have, in deciding, is that this all happened about 15 years ago. This means 
not all the relevant documents from the time are still available. It also wouldnt be surprising 
if someone didnt remember all the details of what happened that long ago. 
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence. Ive still had to decide what is most likely 
to have happened, and to balance the evidence fairly.
Although I cant be certain, I think its more likely than not Mr G agreed to the upgrade to a 
PBA; and that HSBC probably took reasonable steps to tell him about its features. He did 
have fee-free banking with HSBC for several months at first, so this does suggest HSBC 
didnt tell him he had to have a PBA. The main benefit of the HSBC Plus account was travel 
insurance, and Mr Gs bank account records suggest that he travelled abroad soon after. So 
its possible he took out the upgrade to benefit from that insurance. 
So I think its more likely Mr G did have his choices explained to him, and chose to take the 
PBA, even if he cant now remember that, so many years later. 
Also, I dont have other supporting evidence to show HSBC didnt give him a proper choice. 
And it wouldnt be fair to make HSBC prove it didnt do something wrong, especially when 
the evidence suggests Mr G would have been aware he had a choice  as Ive set out 
already.  
HSBC says it didnt recommend the PBA as particularly fitting Mr Gs personal 
circumstances. I think thats probably right. But it did still have to give him good 
information so he could make an informed choice. 
I cant be sure it did this. So Ive thought about whether full information would have made 
Mr G choose differently. But I cant say that it would. As Ive said, the main benefit was 
travel insurance, and Mr G could have used that because he did travel abroad sometimes; 
and he could have made use of the free overseas cash withdrawals and reduced 
overdraft rates. And I cant see that information about other aspects of the PBA were likely 
to have made him decide against taking it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss G and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman