DRN-2900251
The complaint
Mr W and Ms H complain about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with the delay on the 
completion of their house purchase. As a result, Barclays required them to apply for a new 
mortgage offer at a slightly higher rate of interest. Mr W and Ms H want Barclays to readjust 
the interest rate and refund them the mortgage product fee.
  
What happened
Mr W and Ms H were buying a new property and had a mortgage offer from Barclays dated
21 November 2019. This offer expired on 19 May 2020. Mr W and Ms H engaged a solicitor
and completion was to take place in early January 2020. Their solicitor requested the loan
money of £485,965 on 31 December 2019 for completion on 10 January 2020. Barclays
released the money on 6 January. But the vendors were unable to complete and so
completion was delayed. The solicitor returned the money to Barclays.
In response, on 15 January Barclays wrote to Mr W and Ms Hs solicitors saying that they
would hold the money until 6 February but after that date the bank would consider the case
as no longer proceeding. The solicitors wrote back indicating that they hoped to complete at
the end of January but possibly it may not complete by 6 February, so they asked for a short
extension. But Barclays said that it wouldnt release funds beyond the 6 February as it said
that it had an internal policy that once the funds were initially withdrawn there was a 28-day
holding period after which the funds would no longer be available. 
Mr W and Ms Hs purchase didnt complete by 6 February. As Barclays considered the case 
closed, Mr W and Ms H now had to submit a new mortgage application but the interest rate 
available for a similar product had risen from 2.28% pa to 2.33% pa. Mr W and Ms H got a 
new mortgage offer with Barclays and completed the purchase on 26 February 2020.
Although Barclays stood by its policy it felt that it had done certain things wrong. It sent
letters to Mr W and Ms Hs intended address in January before they moved. Compensation
of £300 was paid but that does not form part of this complaint.
Our investigators view 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Barclays 
released the funds as requested and advised Mr W and Ms Hs solicitors of the 28-day 
holding period. Mr W and Ms H disagreed saying in summary that other lenders allow the 
drawdown window to remain open until the end of the mortgage offer period.
My provisional decision
My view of this case differed from that of our investigator and so I issued a provisional 
decision in which I set out my provisional findings. These were as follows:
Mr W and Ms H had a mortgage offer from Barclays. That offer was valid until 19 May 2020. 
Mr W and Ms H believe that it should remain open during the mortgage offer term. Barclays 
says that it has an internal policy that if completion is delayed beyond 28 days of the funds 
first being drawn down, it treats the case as closed.
 
Mr W and Ms H were unaware of that policy. As it relates partly to a technical conveyancing 
matter, I would have expected that information to be supplied to their solicitor. But this was 
an internal policy and their solicitor wasnt informed of the policy until after the initial 
drawdown. Just to confirm that the solicitor was unaware, I asked Barclays to provide me 
with any instructions to their conveyancers in relation to this but apparently Barclays dont 
provide any.
 
I then looked at UK Finance Mortgage Lenders Handbook both Part 1 (general instructions)
and Part 2 (specific Barclays instructions). The Handbook, which replaced the Council of
Mortgage Lenders (CML) Handbook, provides instructions on how lenders expect
conveyancers to carry out their role when acting for lenders. Whereas there is a reference
to delayed completion and return of money within 48 hours, there is no reference to the case
being closed after 28 days. Mr W also supplied me with information from another major
lenders website dealing with Certificate of Title and release of funds under a heading
Information for Lawyers. I should say that doesnt actually deal with delayed completion but
says that mortgage money can be requested up until the close of the mortgage offer window.
There is no suggestion that a delayed completion affects that.
My view in this complaint is that Mr W and Ms H had a reasonable expectation from the 
mortgage offer that if the mortgage completed by 19 May, that they would have been able to 
take advantage of the terms of that offer. If Barclays had a specific policy about delayed 
completion and a 28-day window it should have communicated those rules in such a way 
that it was brought to the attention of Mr W and Ms Hs solicitor in advance of the initial 
completion date so that they could be fully informed before they agreed to any delay. 
Barclays had an internal policy that whilst clearly relevant to the conveyancer wasnt 
communicated to the solicitor. The information the solicitor got was communicated after Mr 
W and Ms H agreed the delay in completion so they would have been unaware of Barclays 
policy at the time this was agreed. I dont believe that this meets our expectations of how a 
lender should communicate with its customer.
So, I believe that if Mr W and Ms H had been aware of this policy, they might have been able
to ensure completion wasnt delayed beyond the 28 days by amending the contract for
example, or by not requesting the initial completion money until a later date when completion
was assured but before 19 May. By not telling Mr W and Ms H or their solicitor of the effects
of the delayed completion until after the fact left them without significant alternative
strategies. I also note that Barclays says that it has this policy so it can assume that the
mortgage money is no longer needed beyond the 28-day timeframe. Mr W and Ms Hs
solicitors explained to Barclays within that timeframe what was happening and that only a
short extension should be necessary. It was clear that the money was still needed and
theres no obvious reason why Barclays shouldnt have granted an extension in the
circumstances.
For those reasons I intend to uphold this complaint. Mr W and Ms Hs main financial loss is 
the extra interest that they will pay over the fixed period of the mortgage because of having 
to take out a higher interest rate than the original mortgage offer. If Barclays system
allows it to put Mr W and Ms Hs mortgage on the original fixed rate it should do so.
Alternatively, Barclays should compensate them by refunding the extra interest they will pay
over the fixed rate period. As Mr W and Ms H will then be on the interest rate, they expected
to be on, I dont believe that Barclays should refund the product fee. 
Im sure Mr W and Ms H were disappointed with Barclays policy which would have put them 
under some pressure to sort out another mortgage offer with completion pending. Im also aware that this was a first purchase and the stress attached to that. But it also seems that as 
they had been already got a mortgage offer from Barclays that a further one would have 
been more straightforward than most. So, I believe that an award of £300 for their trouble 
and upset is appropriate.
I then invited further submissions from Mr W and Ms H and from Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I issued my Provisional Decision, Mr W and Ms H have told me that they accept my 
decision. Barclays tells me that it has no further information to provide. In the light of that Ive 
reviewed the evidence and Im of the view that my provisional decision represents a fair 
outcome to this complaint. In particular, Im of the view that Barclays failed to communicate 
in advance as to how it would deal with a situation where the completion money was 
returned within the mortgage offer period which deprived Mr W and Ms H of the possibility of 
looking at alternative strategies. I believe that the compensation Ive suggested fairly 
compensates Mr W and Ms H for their financial loss and their trouble and upset.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should adjust the mortgage rate on Mr W and Ms Hs mortgage to 
that of the original mortgage offer of 2.28%. Barclays should refund any interest payments 
they made in excess of that together with interest at 8% pa. Alternatively, Barclays should 
compensate Mr W and Ms H for the difference in costs between the interest rates over the 
fixed rate period. Barclays should also pay Mr W and Ms H compensation of £300.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman