DRN-1887442
The complaint
S is a charity. It complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is unfairly charging a fee for some clients to 
transfer money to its bank account.
What happened
S has a business bank account with Lloyds. It was moved to this account by Lloyds in 2018 
because the bank said it was too large to continue with free banking, and in mid-2019 the 
account became subject to the full business banking tariff. 
S accepted the move to a business account, but has complained about the fee charged 
when its clients who have their own Lloyds accounts arrange payments into Ss account at a 
branch counter.
Lloyds investigated the complaint and eventually said the fee for such transactions was 
being correctly charged. But it acknowledged the inconvenience experienced by S in 
pursuing the matter. In January 2020, the bank refunded service charges applied up to the 
end of 2019, plus a payment for inconvenience. It also offered to refund service charges 
invoiced in January and February 2020. The bank also said it would give consideration to 
any costs S incurred when trying to resolve the matter. S was unhappy with the banks 
response and asked us to consider the complaint. 
Our investigator didn't think that Lloyds should be required to do anything more. She said the 
fees are being levied in line with the terms and conditions of Ss business account. She 
thought the banks offer was fair in all the circumstances.
S didn't agree with the investigators conclusions. On behalf of the charity, one of its 
managers said its unreasonable to class what is effectively a transfer as a credit in, purely 
because a vulnerable client makes it at the counter. The clients have no other means of 
making the payment, because they dont have online banking or debit cards with a PIN. 
Moreover, if the clients arrange similar payments at the counter to accounts belonging to 
other organisations elsewhere, theyre done as electronic transfers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says that S, a business account holder, is charged a fee when Lloyds own counter 
staff arrange a payment into the account. Ive looked at the tariff of charges for business 
accounts and I can see that it does specify the following: Credit in fee (Counter payment, 
depositpoint and other deposit services, except those stated below). The exceptions then 
listed are Credits paid in via Immediate Deposit Machine, Night Safe, Business Mobile 
Banking App cheque imaging or Post Office counters.
This complaint is about instructions given by customers at the counter to make a payment 
from their personal Lloyds account into Ss business account with Lloyds. I dont think its unreasonable for the bank to treat this as a counter payment, in line with the account tariff, 
and to charge the fee accordingly.
S says this fee is unfair because it applies to some of the charitys vulnerable clients, who 
pay small amounts into the account so that the charity can buy items online on their behalf. 
But the bank makes no charge to Ss clients for making their payments. Rather, the fee is 
charged to S, as part of the costs of the charitys business account. The bank hasn't 
proposed that S should pass on this fee, or any other, to its individual clients. In my view, its 
for S to decide how it will manage the costs of its business account, including this fee.
I can understand that S would rather not pay this fee, because it adds to the charity's 
operating expenses. Previously S had free banking but it now has a business account, with 
the various associated fees. I cant fairly or reasonably say the bank should charge some of 
the fees on the business account tariff but not others.
S has drawn attention to similar payments into its account, arranged at the counter in other 
banks, for which Lloyds makes no charge. But I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
Lloyds to charge a fee for its own counter services, while not charging S for other banks 
services.
S also points to payments to other organisations, made by its clients at Lloyds counters, 
which are put through as electronic transfers. But these aren't going to Ss Lloyds account, 
so the question of Lloyds account charges doesn't arise. And it seems to me that, for the 
individual clients, the experience is the same, whether theyre paying S or paying another 
organisation  theyre able to make the transaction at the counter and they aren't charged for 
it. I dont think the bank is acting unfairly or unreasonably here
Putting things right
I dont think the bank is acting wrongly in charging the credit in fee for these payments. The 
bank has refunded service charges up the end of 2019 and made a compensation payment 
for inconvenience, and it has offered to refund charges invoiced in January and February 
2020. I think thats enough to settle this complaint.
My final decision
The bank has already made an offer to settle this complaint. I think that offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should refund the charges on Ss business 
account invoiced in January and February 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman