DRN-3559752
The complaint
Miss H complains about how British Gas Services Limited handled her request for an annual 
service and subsequent problems with her boiler. 
What happened
Miss H had a home care policy with British Gas. This included an annual service of her 
boiler. 
In October 2021 she had an appointment for her annual service but the engineer came later 
than arranged. A few days after the visit her boiler broke and she had no heating or hot 
water. She called British Gas to arrange an engineer visit. However in the two weeks that 
followed British Gas missed a number of appointments and Miss H was without heating and 
hot water for 13 days. During this time Miss H had tried to contact British Gas to make a 
complaint and was promised call backs that she did not receive.
Due to the poor service she made a complaint. British Gas upheld it and offered £400 
compensation. However Miss H didnt think this was enough. She said her boiler was still not 
completely fixed and she thought British Gas were responsible for breaking it in the first 
place. So she thought it should provide a replacement. She brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought that £400 wasnt enough to recognise the impact the matter had had on Miss H. She 
said that Miss H had been living with her elderly mother and had to arrange for her to take 
showers in other peoples homes while they were without water. So she recommended 
British Gas pay an additional £200 compensation to make up for this. However she didnt 
agree that it should provide a replacement boiler as she said this wasnt covered under the 
policy.
British Gas accepted our investigators view, however Miss H didnt. She said British Gas 
should have provided alternative accommodation during the time she was without hot water 
and therefore should pay the equivalent of what this would have cost, on top of the 
compensation for distress. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the timeline of events from the point the October 2021 service was arranged. 
And I can see that Miss H has received a very poor service from British Gas. 
There have been a number of times when Miss H has been promised an appointment and 
let down. This has meant she has had to wait at home only for the engineer not to turn up 
which would have been both distressing and inconvenient. 
Further, it took British Gas a total of 11 appointments to fix the problem with the boiler when 
it's confirmed this should have taken no more than three. So its clear it caused an 
unnecessary delay there. During this time Miss H was without heating and hot water for 13 
days. Shes told us she was living with her elderly mother and had to arrange for them both 
to wash other peoples homes and the gym. This was also during October and November, 
when the weather is colder so there is a greater need for heating. 
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused by British Gas poor service is significant. And I agree that £600 better recognises 
this, and is in line with awards offered on similar complaints.
Ive considered what Miss H has said about British Gas providing a new boiler, as she 
believes it was its engineer that caused the fault in the first place. While I understand why 
she thinks this, due to the proximity of the problem to the engineers visit, Ive not seen any 
evidence to say the boiler was damaged at the first visit. And as a replacement boiler isnt 
covered in the policy terms, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask British Gas to provide a 
replacement.
Ive also considered what shes said about British Gas not providing alternative 
accommodation. I can see the policy provides cover for up to £500 of costs towards 
alternative accommodation where theres been accidental damage to the boiler. However 
where this isnt requested or provided at the time, this service wouldnt expect the business 
to provide the money as an alternative. As the cover is there in order to lessen the impact of 
the claim on the insured and not as a monetary award. For that reason I dont agree British 
Gas should pay the money it would have paid for alternative accommodation, however Ive 
considered the impact of living in a house without these facilities in my compensation award.
Finally Miss H has said that her boiler still isnt fixed. Shes said she is unable to have both 
hot water and heating on at the same time. Its unclear whether she has reported this directly 
to British Gas, or just through our service, but Id expect British Gas to ensure the boiler is 
fully repaired, in line with the policy terms and conditions. I suggest Miss H speaks to it 
directly about the issues. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss Hs complaint and require British Gas Services 
Limited to pay a total of £600 compensation to resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman