DRN-3633502
The complaint
Mr B complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
didnt fully accept a claim on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr B had an NFU home insurance policy, originally taken out in May 2012. In October 2019, 
Mr B discovered a leak in his home. NFU appointed a loss adjustor to assess the claim. 
Around the same time, Mr B found a second leak in a separate part of the house. NFUs loss 
adjustor examined the damage and believed that only some of it was covered by Mr Bs 
policy; it said most of the damage was caused by condensation, which wasnt covered.
Between November 2019 and August 2021, both NFU and Mr B instructed various 
professionals to assess the damage and identify its root cause. In August 2021, Mr Bs 
surveyor found significant damage to floorboards, wooden beams, joists, plasterboard to 
walls/ceilings, insulation, fixtures and fittings. He said this was a result of water escaping 
from a faulty boiler being heated to boiling point, creating steam. The steam cooled and 
condensed back to water. This water penetrated the wooden structure of the home, causing 
significant damage. 
NFU, following the advice of its loss adjustor, told Mr B that most of the damage was caused 
by condensation and this wasnt an insured event under his policy. On that basis, NFU 
accepted only part of Mr Bs claim. It offered him a settlement of just under £40,000, less the 
policy excess, to cover some of the water damage plus associated repairs. It says, in 
summary:
It agreed with the need for the work proposed by Mr Bs surveyor. 
However, a lot of this work was unrelated to anything covered by Mr Bs insurance.
Structural damage to the home (floorboards, wood timbers, joists, etc) was the result 
of steam or condensation. This wasnt covered by Mr Bs policy.
Poor workmanship, maintenance, or wear and tear wasnt covered under the 
accidental damage section of Mr Bs policy. 
Cracks in the property were due to thermal fracking and werent covered. 
It accepted that some of its customer service hadnt been good enough. It apologised 
to Mr B for this and offered him £150.
Mr B was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service. He wants NFU to 
accept the full findings of his surveyors report and pay for repairing all the damage to his 
home, as well as alternative accommodation and storage costs until these repairs have been 
completed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that the reports by NFUs loss adjustor explained why the steam/condensation 
damage shouldnt be covered, and he thought this was fair. He didnt think Mr B had 
provided any evidence to contradict this. Based on these findings, our investigator thought 
NFUs settlement offer  as well as its compensation to apologise for poor service  was fair.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider/make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry that its taken so long to resolve this complaint.
This is a complex situation and there are a lot of reports and other correspondence about the 
damage to Mr Bs home. Ive looked at everything both parties have provided but I dont 
think I need to comment on each point to reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on 
what I think are the key issues and tried to set out what I think is and isnt covered by Mr Bs 
insurance. 
NFU has made a settlement offer to cover damage caused by a leak from Mr Bs boiler. 
However, it thinks a lot of the damage has been caused separately by condensation, 
heating, or ventilation issues. It says this isnt covered by Mr Bs policy. Ive reviewed the 
evidence to see if this decision was fair. 
Mr B has provided three reports:
January 2020 (C1)
An email from Mr Bs building consultant which summarised two visits to Mr Bs home in 
November 2019 and January 2020. The consultant identified two separate areas of 
significant water damage: one under the floorboards in a rear bedroom and another within 
and around the boiler in the kitchen. He concluded: there is a serious fault, or faults, 
within the plumbing and heating installation either from faulty installation, subsequent 
alteration to the system, blockage or component failure such as valves or pumps. He 
described the existing plumbing and installation system as dated and haphazard.
February 2020 (C2)
Mr Bs plumber provided a summary of his findings and the repair work needed. He found 
several pin hole leaks in the boiler water jacket, plus a leak from a corroded piece of 
copper pipe under the kitchen sink. He said these leaks probably contributed to the 
condensation problems under the floor and also the other problems in the roof space around 
the central heating header tank. He also noted that all the pipe work was in poor condition.
August 2021 (C3)
This is a comprehensive report by Mr Bs surveyor. It says, in summary:
Wooden boards in the roof space have suffered significantly from the long duration 
affects [sic] of steam and condensation.
The cause of this damage  as well as to the external wall construction, floor 
coverings, floor boarding, floor joists, internal frames, electrics, plumbing and heating 
 was a serious fault/combination of faults within the plumbing and heating 
installation. 
Hot water in the header tank in the roof space created steam which condensed. The 
condensed water ran down the walls and was absorbed by floorboards and joists, 
causing them to decay or expand. This also resulted in damage to flooring, internal frames, electrics, plumbing and 
heating.
Cracks in the walls were caused by water running down from the roof.
Mould and damp staining is evidence of condensed water in the roof space.
July 2022 (C4)
Mr Bs surveyor replied to our investigators findings. Among other points, he restated his 
opinion on the cause of damage: 
The damage caused in the roof space was as a result of a faulty domestic 
appliance. It was water heated to boiling point by the faulty boiler to the extent that on 
escape of water it damaged the roof trusses above and also the roof sarking board 
and by natural process of cooling down after escape, condensed caused further 
damage to the chipboard sarking to the roof.
He also explained why, in his opinion, this type of condensation should be covered: The 
damage has been caused by water, irrespective of its form. The cause is the faulty boiler 
and the resultant escape of water. Because the escape is not usual (leaking pipe/burst 
pipe) does not change the terms of cover with regard to escape.
NFU provided several reports by its loss adjustor:
November 2019 (B1)
NFUs loss adjustors initial assessment. It identified a leak in the utility room which it 
believed might have been running for as long as 18 months. The report concluded: The 
damage to the property is from an ongoing leak to the boiler, we would recommend that 
further investigation is undertaken to establish the extent of water damage.
March 2020 (B2)
A brief report flagging a potential escape of water: The precise cause of the issue is 
currently under investigation although it would appear that it has potentially emanated from 
the shower waste
June 2020 (B3)
NFUs surveyor identified some structural damage  cracks where concrete panels met and 
where the extension joined the original building  but concluded this was due to 
constructional defects and normal thermal movement and wasnt covered by Mr Bs 
insurance.
August 2020 (B4)
This report doesnt contain any new detail. It refers to previous correspondence and confirms 
the loss falls outside the scope of the policy cover provided.
August 2021 (B5)
This is the most detailed of the loss adjustors reports. It says, in summary:
Most of the work proposed by Mr Bs surveyor (in the C3 report) was needed due to 
general condensation/steam issues created as a result of inherent problems with the 
heating system, particularly in the roof space, walls and sub-floor.General condensation/steam didnt fall under the policys escape of water cover.
Other factors contributed to the damage, for example lack of ventilation to the sub 
floor and fascia/soffits. 
There was evidence of general condensation in all rooms, typified by mould staining 
to ceiling and wall angles. This was caused by an imbalance in heating and 
ventilation.
Mr Bs policy included accidental damage cover, however this cover specifically 
excluded damage resulting from any gradual cause. 
The settlement offer was appropriate.
October 2021 (B6)
This referred back to its previous reports and noted the settlement offer reflects NFUs 
liability for some, but not all, the damage. It doesnt comment further on the report by Mr Bs 
surveyor (the C3 report).
I think the reports show clearly that there were leaks that caused the water damage found by 
Mr B in October 2019. The C1 and C2 reports identified this and NFU accepted this, hence 
NFUs settlement offer. 
And I think the reports show broad agreement that the major damage has been primarily 
caused by steam or condensation, and that this was due to a fault in the heating system, 
specifically the boiler and expansion pipe. The only real dispute is whether the damage is 
covered by Mr Bs policy.
Ive looked at what is included and whats excluded by the policy when it comes to water 
damage. The Buildings section of the policy booklet says Water leaking from or frozen in 
any fixed DOMESTIC installation or any DOMESTIC appliance is covered. I also note that 
trace and access cover includes water escaping from any fixed tank, pipe or apparatus. The 
policy excludes damage which happens gradually or caused by lack of general 
maintenance, wear and tear, and loss of value over time. Both exclusions were highlighted 
by NFU as further reasons to support its decision not to accept part of the claim. Theres no 
explicit mention of steam or condensation in the policy booklet.
NFUs letter to Mr B on 22 September 2021 says: your policy only provides cover for 
damage caused by escape of water. If the damage is not related to this, ie due to 
condensation, lack of ventilation etc your policy does not provide cover for this. So NFU is 
making a clear distinction between damage caused by the leak and damage caused by 
steam or condensation.
Mr Bs surveyor, on the other hand, argues that the damage was directly related to the leak. 
He summarised this in his C4 submission: The escape of water, was turned to steam by the 
faulty boiler which in condensing back to water, caused the damage. 
I understand Mr Bs surveyors argument. However, the reports show that the most 
significant damage  set out in the C3, C4, and B5 reports  was not a result of the leak, but 
a result of the fault in the boiler and expansion pipe. The heat generated in the heater tank 
and expansion pipe as a result of this fault created steam and condensation, which in turn 
caused the damage described by Mr Bs surveyor. Put another way, if there hadnt been 
such a serious failing in the heating system the leak wouldnt have caused such severe 
damage. In my opinion, the primary reason for the significant structural damage to Mr Bs 
home isnt a leak  its the fault in the heating system. 
It also appears to me from the reports that this damage has developed over a significant period. The B1 report suggests 18 months. Ive also noted the condition of the heating 
system. The C2, C3 and C4 reports all indicate a serious fault. Mr Bs plumber described the 
system as dated and haphazard. So I think it could reasonably be argued that the boiler 
has suffered from either a lack of general maintenance or has deteriorated due to wear and 
tear, and this has led to the fault. So I understand why NFU has said the damage should be 
excluded under the policy terms.
I appreciate the extensive damage to Mr Bs home, and I understand the implications of my 
decision. He and his family have my sympathy. However, for the reasons above, I think 
NFUs decision to decline the part of Mr Bs claim relating to the condensation/steam 
damage was reasonable.
Finally, Ive considered the settlement offer. Ive reviewed the damage caused by the leaks 
and the original estimate by Mr Bs plumber for repairing this damage. Ive also looked at the 
loss adjustors breakdown of costs allocated for this work. Having done so, I think the 
settlement offer for this part of the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited has made a fair settlement offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman