DRN-3486320
The complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to an 
authorised push payment (APP) rental accommodation scam. Mrs F would like Lloyds to 
reimburse her the money she lost. Mrs F is also unhappy with the customer service she 
received from Lloyds.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mrs F was helping a family member by paying for their rental accommodation 
abroad. The accommodation had been found on a website which Mrs F and her family 
member thought was genuine. Mrs F was provided with the international bank details from 
the family member for the destination / beneficiary account where the deposit was to be 
paid. 
Mrs F called Lloyds on 24 August 2020 asking for its help in making the international 
transfer. Mrs F didnt have telephone banking so the adviser couldnt make the transfer for 
Mrs F. But the adviser agreed to help Mrs F by taking her through the steps on Lloyds 
desktop site online. When entering the relevant information, there was a discrepancy with 
the accommodation being in one country, with Mrs F entering the destination of the transfer 
as that country but with the bank details (IBAN and SWIFT code) provided being for another 
country. Given the discrepancy, the adviser suggested Mrs F double check the details of the 
payee to ensure all was correct.
Mrs F subsequently (through the family member) queried the details. Satisfied with the 
explanation given for the destination bank and satisfied that it was the correct details, Mrs F 
went ahead and made an international transfer online on 25 August 2020. Mrs F transferred 
£1,686.34 (€1,800). Unfortunately it was a scam and the company/website, had either been 
cloned or imitated. So Mrs F had in fact paid money to a fraudster.
Mrs Fs family member, having talked to some colleagues about the rental accommodation, 
was alerted to the fact that it may be a scam. The family member then reached out to the 
genuine accommodation firm who confirmed that the property in question wasnt listed as 
one of theirs. 
Upon discovering she had paid money to a fraudster and had been the victim of a scam, 
Mrs F reported the matter to Lloyds. Mrs F called Lloyds on Sunday 30 August 2020 but was 
unable to speak to the international payments team, as they were unavailable on weekends 
and bank holidays. Mrs F therefore reported the matter on 1 September 2020.
Lloyds reached out to the beneficiary bank to see if any funds could be recovered and 
ultimately received confirmation that no funds could be returned in January 2021. 
Mrs F subsequently made a formal complaint to Lloyds about the matter. On 9 March 2021, 
it issued its final response to Mrs F. It didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy, Mrs F referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed everything 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Broadly summarised our Investigator didnt 
think Lloyds ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent in the 
circumstances or have a cause for concern that Mrs F was at risk of financial harm or was 
falling victim to a scam. 
They also considered that Lloyds, upon notification of the scam, acted promptly and in a 
timely manner. They were satisfied that it had attempted to recover the funds and was 
proactive in chasing the beneficiary bank for a response. Unfortunately no funds could be 
returned  so there was nothing further Lloyds could do to help Mrs F.
With regards to the level of service Mrs F received, the investigator was satisfied that despite 
the delay in Mrs F being able to report the matter  it wouldnt have made a difference with 
Lloyds attempt to recover the funds. They considered this was because the beneficiary bank 
didnt respond to Lloyds recovery request until January 2021  which was some 
considerable time after. 
They were also satisfied that Lloyds advised Mrs F, when she reported the matter, that it 
would attempt to recover the funds on a best endeavours basis and that a refund wasnt 
guaranteed. Lloyds also informed Mrs F that if it needed anything further it would contact 
her. The Investigator acknowledged that Mrs F was proactive in chasing Lloyds for an 
update, but considered that as Lloyds didnt have a meaningful update it was reasonable 
that it didnt contact her in light of Mrs F having been proactive in her request for an update. 
They concluded that Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably and didnt award any compensation 
for the service provided.
As Mrs F disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Lloyds should have done more to prevent Mrs Fs loss. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts.
Having thought very carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Mrs F was a victim of a sophisticated scam 
and paid money in good faith and received nothing in return. And I can see that it was a 
greatly disturbing and an upsetting time for Mrs F. But, in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should reimburse her or 
that its level of service fell below what I would expect to an extent where I would direct it to 
pay Mrs F compensation. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Mrs Fs benefit why the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the CRM Code) isnt applicable in 
this case. 
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud. But 
the CRM Code is explicit in that it only covers a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer and those transfer of funds are between 
GBP-denominated UK-domiciled accounts, by any channel of push payment available to the 
Customer, such as in branch, on the phone, or online. 
As the transfer Mrs F made was an international transfer unfortunately it cant be considered 
under the provisions of the CRM Code.
The relevant law and regulations in place at the time
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs F authorised the transfer in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Mrs F is responsible for the transfer. That remains the 
case even though Mrs F was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Lloyds have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Mrs F?
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs F when she made the transfer, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the transfer or the amount that ought to have alerted Lloyds to the 
possibility Mrs F was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests.
Im also mindful that there were enough funds in Mrs Fs account and the payment wasnt 
clearing or emptying Mrs Fs account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. It was also 
a one-off payment / transfer which isnt uncommon and there wasnt a series of payments in 
quick succession which can also be a sign that someone could be at risk of financial harm. 
So I dont think there were grounds for Lloyds to be suspicious Mrs F may be a victim of 
fraud when she made the payment. All things considered, I think the fact that Lloyds didnt 
flag the payment as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Could Lloyds have done more when Mrs F called initially asking for help to make the 
transfer?
I appreciate Mrs F spoke to an adviser at Lloyds on 24 August 2020 prior to making the 
transfer the next day. However the adviser was assisting Mrs F through the process of 
making an international transfer online through the desktop site. Upon Mrs F entering the 
details, as the destination country had been input as one country but the IBAN and SWIFT 
code for the beneficiary bank was based in another country, Mrs F was advised to double 
check the payee details and destinations were all correct. I dont think, based on the 
interaction, that the adviser needed to do anything more than this and what was 
recommended was proportionate in the circumstances. Im also mindful that Mrs F was 
making a transfer for a deposit for a rental property for a family member. And Mrs F had 
explained to the adviser that they had put a deposit down on a different rental property but 
had now cancelled that one in favour of a better one. So I cant fairly say that the adviser at 
that time would have been on notice that Mrs F was potentially falling victim to a scam.
Lloyds attempt at recovering the funds
I have also gone on to look at whether Lloyds acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. I appreciate Mrs Fs 
frustration in not being able to contact Lloyds international team on 30 August 2020. She 
was trying to act as quickly as possible and report the matter to her bank. However the 
transfer had already been made and debited Mrs Fs account on 25 August 2020. With 
international transfers / payments  once they have been routed / processed, all a Bank can 
subsequently do (when it is notified that the transfer is as a result of a scam) is reach out to 
the beneficiary bank in question and try to recall the payment / recover the funds. Mrs F 
wasnt to know this process at the time, and as Ive said I can see why she would have been 
frustrated at the process.
When Mrs F reported the matter on 1 September 2020, I can see that Lloyds contacted the 
beneficiary bank in a timely manner, and it then proactively chased for responses. Lloyds 
isnt responsible for the beneficiary bank not responding, but importantly Lloyds attempted to 
recover Mrs Fs funds  and proactively chased for a response, so it had met its obligations. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank did ultimately respond saying that it cannot return the 
funds. This is an indicator that the funds had most likely been moved on, and on the balance 
of probabilities, had probably been moved on within hours of being received. So there was 
nothing further Lloyds could do to help Mrs F further. Lloyds upon receipt of the information 
from the beneficiary bank informed Mrs F on 20 January 2021.
The level of service Mrs F received
Mrs F feels strongly that Lloyds service could have been better. I can understand why she 
feels like this. She was the victim of a scam, which is distressing enough  especially in light 
of the fact that a family member was abroad, and the deposit was for their accommodation.  
She then tried to act quickly to report the matter and had to wait two days to do so. And 
Mrs F also remained proactive in chasing Lloyds for an update. And all this was in amongst 
other things such as contacting Action Fraud (of which I note Action Fraud were 
experiencing technical difficulties online) and obtaining a police report from the country 
where her family member was residing. However I am mindful that some of the distress and impact on Mrs F follows directly from the 
actions of the fraudster and being the victim of a scam. And I have also considered that 
when Mrs F reported the matter on 1 September 2020, she was advised that Lloyds would 
send a message to the beneficiary bank to attempt to recall the payment. But Lloyds added 
that this was done on a best endeavours basis and there was no guarantee of return as 
fraudsters typically withdraw the funds promptly. Mrs F was also advised that she couldnt be 
given an exact timescale for a response. Lloyds told her that this was because it was down 
to the beneficiary bank to respond, and that if the beneficiary bank did respond and asked 
for any further information it would contact her. Mrs F was advised also that it can take 
weeks for the beneficiary bank to respond.
So I think Lloyds appropriately managed Mrs Fs expectations from the outset. Mrs F was 
aware that the recall was done on a best endeavours basis and that there was no guarantee 
of the funds being recovered. And Mrs F was aware that it could take some time for the 
process and a response to be received. That said, I do acknowledge that it took some 
considerable time for the beneficiary bank to respond  which would have been frustrating 
for Mrs F especially as she had been so proactive in the matter. But as mentioned earlier the 
beneficiary bank responding was outside of Lloyds control. 
I do appreciate Mrs F was proactive in chasing Lloyds for a response  and I can understand 
why she would want to chase for an update. But Lloyds did provide her with the latest update 
available to it when she called, and Im satisfied that Lloyds, in the background, were 
chasing for a response from the beneficiary bank. Had Lloyds received any form of 
response, Im persuaded that it would have most likely updated Mrs F accordingly. As it 
stood, it didnt have an update, and when Mrs F called in, Lloyds updated her accordingly. I 
dont think Lloyds needed to update Mrs F every time it sent a message to the beneficiary 
bank chasing a response to the recovery attempt.
So I dont think Lloyds level of service was unreasonable overall. And I dont award any 
compensation to Mrs F for the level of service she received.
Summary
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs F. She sent her money in good faith and did not 
receive anything in return for it. But overall, while I appreciate Mrs Fs been the unfortunate 
victim of a scam, I think Lloyds decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because it followed Mrs Fs instructions to make the payment and I havent seen 
any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, it wasnt able to recover the 
funds or do anything to help Mrs F further.
While Mrs F considered the level of service from Lloyds wasnt satisfactory, Im satisfied that 
it managed her expectations appropriately at the outset - in terms of recovery of the funds 
and that it had no way of knowing when the beneficiary bank would respond. It was also 
proactive in chasing the beneficiary bank for a response and also updated Mrs F accordingly 
when she called in.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman