DRN-3016001
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has wrongly handled a claim in connection with 
a car accident he had.
What happened
Mr S reversed his car into a stationary vehicle which he says was illegally parked. He says 
Aviva told him his claim would be treated as a no fault matter. Under the policy, this meant 
Aviva would pay lawyers costs to help Mr S claim his financial losses (like his excess) from 
the other party.
But when Mr S provided more information about the circumstances of the accident, Aviva 
decided it wasnt a no fault matter. Its appointed solicitors said there were no reasonable 
prospects of success and Aviva relied on this to decide it wasnt willing to pay for Mr S to 
pursue a claim against the other driver after all. 
Aviva accepted it shouldnt have told Mr S it would treat his claim as no fault, and paid £75 
for the inconvenience caused. Mr S accepted the payment but he wasnt happy with Avivas 
response. He said he wasnt at fault, and he considered it unfair that Aviva had wrongly 
categorised his accident. This affected his no claims discount, and meant he didnt have 
legal protection to reclaim the excess hed paid. Mr S referred the matter to this service for 
further consideration.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In light of the 
circumstances of the accident, he didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that 
it wasnt a no fault matter, and not to fund a claim against the other party. 
He also found it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on its lawyers assessment that the claim 
had no reasonable prospects of success. Overall, the investigator was satisfied that Avivas 
decision not to fund a claim against the other party was fair and reasonable, and was taken 
in line with the policys terms and conditions.
The investigator also considered the compensation paid by Aviva was fair.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He maintained that he hadnt caused 
the accident, and so the matter shouldnt have been treated on the basis that it was his fault. 
Mr S asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the matter has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened, in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Section 9 of Mr Ss Aviva policy says:
If there is an accident and/or incident involving your car which is not your fault, we will 
provide you with legal protection to pay lawyers costs to help claim against the person(s) 
who is responsible.
As part of your claim we will pay to recover your financial losses (such as your excess and 
travel expenses)
Aviva said its understanding of the accident was that Mr S hit a parked and unattended 
vehicle. It said that as Mr S was the only person manoeuvring a car at the time, a court 
would likely find him to be the only negligent party. For that reason, Aviva said it couldnt 
progress the matter further as a no fault case as it wouldnt be able to reclaim its outlay 
from the other party.
Mr S disagreed with Aviva, because he said the car hed hit was illegally parked. As such, he 
didnt consider hed caused the accident, and said it was unfair for Aviva to say it was his 
fault. Ive noted everything Mr S has said about the circumstances of what happened, and I 
understand why he doesnt consider he was to blame.
But its beyond the remit of this service to decide whether Mr S was at fault. Only a court can 
do that. 
We can take a view on whether Avivas response to Mr Ss claim was reasonable. When I 
take account of the information made available to Aviva, on balance I dont consider the 
insurers assessment that Mr S was at fault was unreasonable.  This means that in line with 
the policy terms, as set out above, Mr Ss claim for the cost of pursuing a claim for his 
excess against the third party wasnt covered.
Its also a requirement of the policy that the claim must have reasonable prospects of 
success. And while Aviva would have needed further reasoning on this had it treated the 
claim as non-fault, the initial opinion of the solicitors Aviva appointed for Mr S was that the 
claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success.
So I dont consider it was unreasonable for Aviva not to fund Mr Ss claim for the excess. 
I appreciate Aviva raised Mr Ss expectations by indicating it would treat the matter as non-
fault, but Im satisfied the £75 compensation its paid for that is reasonable. And Im not 
persuaded it needs to do anything else.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman