DRN-2475442
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Amtrust Europe Limited gave poor service in connection with a home 
emergency insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, 
but we dont identify any other party.
We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authority dispute resolution rules (DISP). One of 
those rules is that a consumer must complain to the firm and wait for a final response or for 
eight weeks (whichever is the sooner) before bringing a complaint to us.
On 9 December 2019, Mrs N bought boiler insurance cover under which Amtrust was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Amtrust, I include engineers and others 
insofar as I hold Amtrust responsible for their actions.
On Friday 5 June 2020, Mrs Ns boiler wasnt working so she called Amtrust for help. By an 
email dated 13 June, Mrs N complained to Amtrust. She said that after several days without 
central heating and hot water, she had engaged her own engineer to install a new boiler at a 
cost of about £2,300.00.
In a final response letter dated 19 June 2020, Amtrust accepted the complaint and said it 
was sending Mrs N £250.00. But it didnt send a cheque for that amount until 28 July 2020, 
when Mrs N brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
there had been a breakdown of communication and this led to Mr and Mrs N being without 
hot water and heating for longer than they needed to be. This had caused stress while they 
werent informed of what was happening. However, the investigator thought that the 
compensation offered was fair to reflect the impact this had had.  
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The gas safety engineer came on 30 December 2019 to check the boiler. He had a 
strong smell of alcohol on him and was too hung-over to drive. He never once asked 
how old the boiler was. 
The £250.00 compensation is nothing. She didnt use the policy for about 6 months 
of the year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a welcome letter, I see that Mrs N entered into two agreements on 9 December 2019. 
One was an insurance policy under which Amtrust was responsible for dealing with claims. 
The cost of that policy was £157.20. The other was an agreement under which a home 
services company was responsible for inspection and servicing. The cost of that was £88.20.
The first inspection took place on 30 December 2019. I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that Mrs N complained about that to the home services company or Amtrust before 
complaining to us in mid-December 2020. So I cant comment further on that complaint.
The policy covered most repairs. It contained provisions for replacement of a boiler that was 
less than seven years old. The policy also contained a term as follows:
If spare parts are available but, in our opinion, your System is considered to be 
Beyond Economic Repair then we will offer you a contribution, at our discretion, 
towards a new boiler. This offer is only valid for 30 days from the date of our 
Engineer visit. We will either provide you with a discount in advance, or a contribution 
once you have provided proof (i.e. receipt/invoice) of a new boiler being installed 
within 60 days from when your System was deemed Beyond Economic Repair by our 
Engineer. We will let you know which one will be applicable at our Engineer visit. We 
must approve any contribution in advance of work being undertaken.
That term didnt specify the amount of any contribution. And It used the words at our 
discretion. So I dont consider that it promised any specified contribution. Also, the term 
provided that Amtrust had to approve any contribution before work was done to install a new 
boiler.
I find it likely that Mrs N wouldve told us if her boiler was under seven years old. So I find 
that it wasnt.
Mrs N already had a problem when she contacted Amtrust  thats why she contacted 
Amtrust. Depending on what was wrong with the boiler, it was always going to take some 
time to obtain parts to repair the boiler or to take a decision to get a new one installed. And 
in the meantime Mr and Mrs N were going to be without a working boiler.
I keep in mind that it was summer time. I also keep in mind that there was a lockdown that 
wasnt eased until early July 2020.
In response to the call on Friday 5 June Amtrust visited that day. On the following Monday 8 
June 2020, Amtrust arranged for the manufacturer of the boiler to visit on its behalf. The 
manufacturer identified a list of replacement parts the boiler needed. I havent seen enough 
evidence to show that the manufacturer communicated that to Mrs N or to Amtrust.
So Mr and Mrs N were left without central heating ad hot water for longer than necessary  
and lockdown prevented them from leaving home. They were also left wondering what 
Amtrust was doing.
So I can quite see why Mr and Mrs N decided to involve their own engineer. From the fact 
that it was replaced, I find that their engineer mustve considered that the boiler was beyond 
repair  or at least that Mr and Mrs N needed a new one. 
Mr and Mrs N had already had the boiler replaced when she complained on 13 June 2020. 
She later told us that shed been without hot water for five days. So the new boiler mustve 
been installed on about 10 June 2020.I havent seen an invoice for this  or any evidence that Amtrust approved any contribution 
before the work was undertaken. From what it has said, Amtrust belatedly said the old boiler 
had been beyond economic repair. Keeping in mind what Ive said about the policy term 
quoted above, I dont consider that Amtrust was obliged to make any contribution towards 
the cost of the new boiler. 
I hold Amtrust responsible for causing some unnecessary delay and uncertainty. I dont 
doubt that this caused Mrs N extra inconvenience and distress at an already difficult time.
Amtrust paid Mrs N £250.00 and Ive thought about what I wouldve awarded if Amtrust 
hadnt made that payment. Overall, I consider that £250.00 was at least as much as I would 
otherwise have found fair and reasonable for the impact on Mrs N. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Amtrust to pay Mrs N any more or to do anything further in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Amtrust Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman