DRN-1436284
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs R complain they were mis-sold a reviewable whole of life (WOL) policy, which 
included Critical Illness Cover (CIC) by Barclays Bank UK Plc as they were not made aware 
at the time of sale that the sum assured would be reduced on review.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage that was part interest only  protected by 
endowment policies  and part capital repayment. They were advised to take out the WOL 
policy as protection for the capital repayment part of the mortgage.
The policy was reviewed in 2003 and 2008 and passed both reviews with no changes 
needed. The policy failed the review carried out in 2013 and as result the sum assured was 
reduced from £48,000 to £25,866.
The policy was reviewed again in 2018 and again failed its review which resulted in another 
drop in the sum assured to £12,156. It was this reduction in the benefit under the policy that 
led Mr and Mrs R to complain.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint and said the policy was suitable for their circumstances. 
It said that normally it would recommend a term assurance policy as cover for a mortgage 
but there were limited options. It said it had checked with the provider who was unable to 
provide a comparison term assurance quote as it doesnt have rates for CIC from 1993 and 
that this suggests this wasnt available at the time. 
Barclays said it was also satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were made aware that the policy was 
reviewable and that the cover could reduce on review.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that we would normally expect that a term assurance policy was recommended that 
matched the term of the mortgage. But that at the time of sale in 1993 there were limited 
options and the provider didnt offer a term assurance policy with CIC. She said that is why a 
whole of life policy with CIC was recommended instead.
The investigator wasnt satisfied Mr and Mrs R wouldve found a term assurance policy that 
provided both life and CIC if they had been advised to shop around. She said the adviser 
could have considered separate life cover and CIC policies but that the cost of this was likely 
to be higher than the premium of £20.41 for the WOL policy. She also pointed out that a term 
assurance policy taken out for the mortgage term wouldve ended in 2018.
The investigator thought that Mr and Mrs R were made aware the policy would be reviewed 
after the 10 year review as the letters sent to them on the first review in 2003 and 
subsequent reviews in 2008 and 2013 made reference to when the next review would take 
place.Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs R said that they didnt dispute the 
advice about having life cover as they were happy to have the protection for their mortgage. 
But she said they still disputed that they were given the full facts about the reviewable nature 
of the policy and said they were misled about this. She said the information given to them at 
the time they took out the policy didnt indicate that there could be a possible reduction in the 
guaranteed sum assured of £48,000 and they now find themselves with only £12,156 of 
cover and no prospect of arranging affordable alternative cover because of their ages and 
medical history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have sympathy with the position Mr and Mrs R find themselves in. I acknowledge they may 
have difficulty finding affordable alternative life cover given they have indicated there are 
medical conditions that will affect there ability to get such cover. But I have to make my 
findings and decision on a balance of probability  what is more likely, than not. And having 
looked at the evidence Im not satisfied that it is more likely than not Barclays has done 
anything wrong.
Mr and Mr R complaint has arisen out of their unhappiness that the sum assured under the 
policy has gone down from the initial sum assured rather than because they think the policy 
was unsuitable as mortgage cover. Given their concern is that they are going to be unable to 
get replacement cover it seems clear they are not arguing that the policy shouldve been a 
term assurance policy that was for the same term as their mortgage.
But I have considered whether the policy was suitable for their needs at the time it was 
recommended anyway, as a WOL policy isnt generally considered suitable as cover for a 
capital repayment mortgage - as noted by both Barclays and the investigator. Normally I 
wouldve expected a decreasing term assurance (DTA) to be recommended, so the cover 
went down in line with the mortgage.
But Mr and Mrs R didnt just want life cover, they also wanted CIC.  And although CIC had 
been introduced into the UK some years before, it wasnt widely available as is the case 
now, and it certainly wasnt readily available as part of a policy that also provided life cover.
I am not saying that it might not have been possible for Mr and Mrs R to have found a 
provider who couldve provided such a policy but I am not satisfied it is more likely than not 
they wouldve done so and I have no evidence this wouldve been cheaper anyway. Im also 
mindful this was a staff mortgage so they are likely to have wanted Barclays to deal with the 
life cover and CIC they wanted rather than go elsewhere for advice. 
It is also possible they couldve had two separate policies for the life cover and CIC. But 
again there is no evidence to show this wouldve been any cheaper than the £20.41 they 
have paid for their WOL policy. So, Im not satisfied any loss arises even if they couldve had 
two separate policies.
Turning to the main issue that Mr and Mrs R have complained about  namely the reviews 
and decrease in the sum assured  I am satisfied that they were given the information they 
needed to understand that the policy was reviewable and the sum assured could go down on 
review.Mr and Mrs R have said they relied upon what was set out in the illustration they received 
which referred to Guaranteed Benefit of £48,000 and lifetime benefit and this led them to 
believe they would get this amount on death or diagnosis of a critical illness. They have said 
they didnt expect the sum assured to reduce because the illustration said it was guaranteed 
and the note about the 10 year review didnt say cover could reduce. 
But they have also said they did discuss the reviewable nature of the policy with the adviser 
after the policy had been taken out and were told it wouldnt be significant. 
Mr and Mrs R are recalling events from over 25 years ago and their memories from so long 
ago are very unlikely to be accurate or complete. But even on their own evidence they were 
aware, shortly after taking out the policy, that there would be a review and the sum assured 
could change - even if they thought this wouldnt be significant. 
In the circumstances I think they were aware in 1993 that the sum assured wasnt 
guaranteed, and if they had been misled by the illustration and wanted a guaranteed policy 
they couldve cancelled at the time. Instead they decided to continue the policy knowing the 
sum assured wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr and Mrs R have also said they werent aware there would be reviews after the first review 
at 10 years. But the review letter dated 5 September 2003 states, in the first paragraph:
At regular times we review your plan to see if the value of your plan is enough to support 
the level of guaranteed benefit in your plan. The cost of this benefit usually increases with 
age.
The letter also states that:
At each review date we work out how much your plan might be worth at the next review 
date.
And then includes an illustration showing the anticipated value in 2008 and warning the 
policy had only been reviewed up to August 2008.  
So it was made very clear that there would be further reviews and if Mr and Mrs R were 
unaware of this previously I wouldve expected them to have raised this in 2003.  As they 
didnt Im not persuaded they werent aware there would be ongoing reviews. 
I note that the next review in 2008 also repeated that there would be regular reviews and 
again Mr and Mrs R didnt question this with Barclays at the time - which reinforces my view 
that Mr and Mrs R were aware the policy wasnt going to be reviewed just once.
The policy passed both the 2003 and 2008 reviews so no changes were needed. But it failed 
the next two reviews in 2013 and 2018 and the sum assured was reduced each time.
Mr and Mrs R argue that the information in the illustration about the 10 year review and the 
information provided in the review letters for the first two reviews didnt indicate the cover 
could reduce. I acknowledge there isnt specific reference to the sum assured reducing on 
review. But the illustration stated:
The Guaranteed Lifetime benefit shown is guaranteed for 10 years. At the end of this period 
there will be a Plan Review at which time contributions may increase if this level of cover is 
to be continued.Mr and Mrs R have complained they werent aware the cover could go down. But they were 
made aware that on review the amount they paid for the cover may need to increase to keep 
the same level of cover. I think it is reasonably clear from this that the level of cover wont be 
maintained if the level of contributions needs to go up and this doesnt happen. They 
couldve chosen to increase the premium on the failed reviews but didnt do so.
I think it is also worth pointing out that the policy was taken out to cover their capital 
repayment mortgage of 25 years which would have taken them up to the review in 2018. The 
policy has actually provided the cover they needed for the mortgage they had at the time of 
advice. If they want to keep the policy going that is a matter for them but it has already 
fulfilled the purpose for which it was sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman