DRN-4229834
The complaint
Mr H and Ms I complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost when they 
were the victims of a scam.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr H received a text message from a number hed never been contacted 
by before. It appeared to be wrong number and intended for someone else, but the person 
sending the messages then started a conversation with Mr H. And this conversation 
continued over the next few days and weeks, to the point where Mr H thought he and the 
person sending the messages were friends.
The person sending the messages told Mr H that they had been able to make a lot of money 
trading foreign currency, and that their aunt had helped them learn how to do it. They 
suggested Mr H could learn how to trade too, showed him how to download the trading 
platform they used and introduced him to her aunt and an analyst and account manager they 
said worked for her.
Mr H and Ms I then made a number of payments from their joint account with HSBC to the 
account details the account manager gave Mr H, in order to add money to the trading 
platform and make trades as the analyst recommended. Mr H was given log-in details for an 
account with the trading platform ,which showed him making a significant profit on the trades 
he was making. So Mr H and Ms I continued making payments to the account details they 
were given. Ive set out the payments Mr H and Ms I made below:
Date Details Amount
8 January 2022 To individual 1 £5,000
12 January 2022 To individual 2 £10,000
13 January 2022 To individual 3 £17,000
17 January 2022 To individual 3 £18,000
20 January 2022 To individual 4 £28,000
27 January 2022 To company 1 £10,000
27 January 2022 To company 1 £10,000
27 January 2022 To company 1 £4,000
11 February 2022 To individual 5 £50,000
14 February 2022 To individual 5 £50,000
15 February 2022 To individual 5 £50,000
4 March 2022 To company 1 £25,000
8 March 2022 To company 1 £24,890
9 March 2022 To company 1 £24,900
14 March 2022 To company 1 £24,500
Unfortunately we now know the person sending the messages, the aunt, the account 
manager and the analyst were all scammers.
The scam was uncovered after Mr H received a message saying the trading account had 
been frozen as there were concerns about the source of the money that had been paid in. 
He was told he had to pay in 25% of the balance in the trading account in order to un-freeze 
it. But Mr H didnt think this sounded right, so reported the payments to HSBC as fraud.
HSBC investigated but said it had provided sufficient warnings and guidance before Mr H 
and Ms I made the payments. It also said it thought Mr H and Ms I could have done more to 
prevent the scam, such as checking who they were speaking to and paying. And it said it 
had been unable to recover the money from the banks it was sent to. So it didnt agree to 
refund the money Mr H and Ms I had lost. Mr H and Ms I werent satisfied with HSBCs 
response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Ms H and Ms I had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. But they also didnt think the 
warnings HSBC had provided were effective or that HSBC had done enough to protect their 
account. So they though HSBC should refund 50% of the money Mr H and Ms I lost, and pay 
£200 compensation. HSBC didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Are the payments covered by the CRM code?
Ive first considered whether the CRM code applies to all the payments Mr H and Ms I made 
as a result of this scam.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) is a 
voluntary code HSBC has signed up to. It sets out a number of circumstances in which firms 
are required to reimburse customers who have been the victims of certain types of scam. 
But it doesnt cover international payments.
In this case, the payments Mr H and Ms I made between 13  20 January 2022, and then 
between 11  15 February 2022 were international payments. And so I dont think these 
payments are covered by the CRM code. Ive highlighted these payments in bold in the table 
above.
The rest of the payments Mr H and Ms I made were to UK accounts. And they meet the 
other requirements needed to be covered by the CRM code. So I think these payments are 
covered by the CRM code.
The payments covered by the CRM code
The CRM code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr H and Ms I fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr H and Ms I have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
HSBC has argued that Mr H and Ms I didnt act reasonably and should have done more to 
check who they were speaking to and paying. And I appreciate that this was a sophisticated 
scam, where Mr H and Ms I were manipulated through social media before making the 
payments, and were given log-in details to a trading platform which showed the trades and 
profit they were making. But there were also a number of things about what was happening 
and what they were told that I think should have caused them significant concern.
The first contact Mr H received was a text message from a number hed never been 
contacted by before, and that appeared to be a wrong number and intended for someone 
else. So I think it should have caused him significant concern when the person who sent the 
message then started a conversation with him, and particularly when they then asked for 
personal details about him and encouraged him to invest and trade in an area he had no 
experience or expertise in.
Mr H and Ms I make the first payment of £5,000 two weeks after that first message. But the 
person Mr H was speaking to doesnt appear to have offered any evidence of who they were 
or that they had experience of the trading they were suggesting Mr H get involved in. And 
Mr H doesnt appear to have taken any steps to confirm the identity or employment of the 
person he was speaking to, their aunt, the account manager or the analyst. And I think it 
would be reasonable to expect some checks into these things before sending such a large 
payment.
Mr H and Ms I were also told they had to send payments to an intermediary company, 
because the trading platform didnt have a bank account. And they were then told to make 
the first payment to the personal account of an individual they didnt know and hadnt spoken 
to. But they dont appear to have been given any information showing who this individual 
was or how they were connected to the intermediary company they were supposed to be 
paying. So I think this explanation of how they should make payments should have caused 
them concern.
Mr H and Ms I also dont appear to have been sent any paperwork or documentation relating 
to the investment or trading they were doing, which I would expect when such large amounts 
are involved. And Mr H was told the person who initially messaged him had put $250,000 
into his trading account to help him get started. But I think this should have been highly 
suspicious, as they had only been speaking for two weeks and had never met in person.
So I think HSBC has established that Mr H and Ms I made the first payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine. And I think the circumstances for the later 
payments only became more suspicious, as Mr H and Ms I were asked to pay more 
individuals they didnt know and Mr H was told he was making profits that I think were too 
good to be true. So I dont think Mr H and Ms I had a reasonable basis for belief when 
making any of the payments, and so HSBC doesnt have to refund all of the money they lost 
as a result of these payments.
Did HSBC meet its requirements under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think they had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
Mr H and Ms I may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money they lost if HSBC didnt meet its requirements under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings 
when it identifies a scam risk.
The first payment Mr H and Ms I made as a result of this scam was for £5,000, which I 
consider to be a significant amount of money. And it was made to a new payee they hadnt 
sent money to before. So I think HSBC should have identified a scam risk here, and so 
provided Mr H and Ms I with an effective warning.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us screenshots of the warning Mr H and Ms I were shown before making the 
first payment of £5,000, as well as before a number of the other payments they made, which 
said:
This could be a scam
Fraudsters can offer you what appears to be a genuine opportunity with high returns. They 
can pressure you to invest your savings or transfer your current pension to a new scheme.
Take time to talk to someone you trust who is not involved with the investment
You must independently research who youre sending money to
Check the company is genuine and authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority
Company names can be cloned. Its vital you contact the company on an 
independently verified number
Visit our Fraud Centre to find out more
By choosing to continue, you agree youve read our warning and are happy to proceed. You 
accept we may not be able to recover your money if its been sent to a fraudsters account.
This warning explains that fraudsters can offer investments with high returns and that HSBC 
may not be able to recover money once its been sent to a fraudster. It also sets out steps a 
customer can take to address the risk. So I think it does a good job of alerting customers to 
potential risks and how to address them.
But the warning mentions transferring a pension and cloned companies, which werent 
relevant to Mr H and Ms Is circumstances. Mr H and Ms I had been contacted and 
manipulated through social media, which this warning doesnt mention at all. And theyd 
been led to believe they were making trades through a fake trading platform, which the 
warning also doesnt mention. So I dont think this warning was specific enough to be 
effective in Mr H and Ms Is circumstances.
And so I dont think HSBC met its requirements under the CRM code to provide effective 
warnings. And so I think HSBC should refund 50% of the money Mr H and Ms I lost as a 
result of these payments.
HSBC has argued that it wouldnt have made a difference even if it had provided an effective 
warning, as it thinks Mr H and Ms I would have continued to make the payments either way  as they did when later interventions were made. But I dont agree. I think the warning 
HSBC gave would have been more impactful and more likely to influence Mr H and Ms I if it 
had been more specifically related to the type of friendship and fake trading scam they had 
fallen victim to. And as the warning would have been shown before they had made their first 
payment, I think Mr H and Ms I would have been less invested in the scam at that point and 
so more likely to be persuaded it wasnt genuine. So I dont agree an effective warning 
wouldnt have made a difference here.
I therefore think HSBC should refund 50% of the payments Mr H and Ms I made that are 
covered by the CRM code.
The payments not covered by the CRM code
As I explained above, the six international payments Mr H and Ms I made arent covered by 
the CRM code. And Mr H accepts that he made these payments himself. So while I 
recognise that he didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, he did authorise these 
payments. And so the starting position is that Mr H and Ms I are liable for them and HSBC 
doesnt have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether HSBC should have identified that Mr H and Ms I were 
potentially at risk of fraud as a result of these payments, or otherwise done more to protect 
them.
Did HSBC do enough to protect Mr H and Ms I?
The first international payment Mr H and Ms I made was for £17,000, which I consider to be 
a significant amount of money. And it was significantly larger than any other payment made 
out of Mr H and Ms Is account in the previous months, and was made to a new payee they 
hadnt sent money to before. So I think HSBC should have identified that Mr H and Ms I 
were potentially at risk of financial harm as a result of it, and carried out additional checks 
before allowing it to go through.
HSBC has shown that Mr H and Ms I were shown a warning, like the one shown for the 
CRM payments above, when they made this payment. But I dont think this was sufficient to 
address the risk HSBC should have identified, and I think HSBC should have blocked the 
payment and contacted Mr H and Ms I to carry out additional checks before allowing it to go 
through.HSBC did block a later payment Mr H made and called him to ask questions about it. So Ive 
considered whether it did enough in this call and whether it would have made a difference if 
it had called about the first international payment.
When it spoke to Mr H, HSBC explained that it was concerned because he had said he was 
sending money to a foreign exchange company but the bank details he had given were for 
an individuals personal account. It explained this kind of payment matched scam trends and 
that an investment platform would never ask you to transfer money to a personal account. 
And so I think HSBC did a reasonable job of explaining its concerns about the payment to 
Mr H.
But Mr H mentions in the call that he is dealing with an account manager and has been 
given log-in details for a trading platform, which are both features of well-known scams. He 
also says that, whenever he wants to add money to his account, his account manager gives 
him bank details to send money to and that he has sent money to a variety of different 
details  which I think should have caused HSBC significant concern. And Mr H mentions he 
has borrowed money from friends to make this investment and doesnt have any 
documentation for it, which I think should also have caused HSBC concern.
So I think HSBC should have asked more probing questions, based on the information it 
received from Mr H. And I dont think HSBC asked probing enough questions about where 
Mr H had found out about the investment opportunity or if hed been able to make any 
withdrawals from the trading platform.
If HSBC had asked more probing questions, I think it would have found out that Mr H had 
been recommended the trading platform by someone he had recently met online but never 
met in person. And that he hadnt made any withdrawals from the trading platform. And 
given this information, I think HSBC should have had serious concerns and explained to 
Mr H that he was likely the victim of a scam.
So if HSBC had carried out additional checks before allowing the payment of £17,000, as I 
think it should have done, I think the scam would have been uncovered.
HSBC has argued that Mr H and Ms I would have continued to make payments towards the 
scam in any event, and that there was nothing it could have done to prevent their loss. But, 
as above, I disagree. If HSBC had found out that Mr H had been recommended the trading 
platform by someone he had recently met online and had never met in person, it could have 
explained that this matches trends for investment scams. It could have explained that 
scammers will often provide log-in details for fake trading platforms which show that victims 
are making significant profits. It could have explained that the way Mr H had been asked to 
send money to the investment platform wasnt how a legitimate company would work. And it 
could have given Mr H a number of checks he could carry out into the people he had been 
speaking to, such as finding out who the aunt, account manager and analyst worked for and 
doing more checks into the companies he was paying.
As HSBC is the expert in financial matters in this situation, I think a warning like this would 
have carried significant weight with Mr H and Ms I. And as the first international payment 
was only the third payment Mr H and Ms I made towards the scam, I think they would have 
bene less invested in it and less convinced it was real at that point, and so more likely to 
follow the advice HSBC gave.
So I think its likely that, if HSBC had carried out additional checks and given more specific 
advice to Mr H before the £17,000 payment, that Mr H and Ms I wouldnt have made any 
further payments and so wouldnt have lost the money from the international payments.Should Mr H and Ms I bear some responsibility for their loss?
Ive also thought about whether it would be fair for Mr H and Ms I to bear some responsibility 
for the loss they suffered. And, for similar reasons to why I dont think they had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments, I think it would be fair for them to do so. I think 
there were a number of things about what was happening that should have caused them 
significant concern, including how Mr H was first contacted, how they were asked to make 
the payments and the lack of information they were given about who they were speaking to 
and sending money to.
HSBC has argued that Mr H and Ms I should bear most, if not all, of the responsibility for 
their loss. But while I appreciate that Mr H and Ms I should bear some responsibility, I also 
think there were significant failings by HSBC here  as Ive explained above. So I dont think 
it would be fair for Mr H and Ms I to bear sole responsibility for the loss, and I think it would 
be fair for both sides here to bear equal responsibility.
So I think HSBC should refund 50% of the international payments Mr H and Ms I made as a 
result of this scam.
Summary
Overall then, I think HSBC should refund 50% of the payments covered by the CRM code, 
as I dont think Mr H and Ms I had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments 
but HSBC also failed to meet its requirement under the code.
And I think HSBC should refund 50% of the payments that arent covered by the CRM code, 
as I think it should have done more to protect Mr H and Ms I but that it would be fair for them 
to bear some responsibility too.
Recovery
We expect businesses to take reasonable steps to help customers recover any money they 
have lost as a result of a scam. So Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough to try to 
recover the money Mr H and Ms I lost.
But HSBC has sent us evidence that it contacted the banks the payments were sent to within 
a reasonable amount of time, to ask if the money could be returned. Those banks replied to 
say there were no funds left to return. And, as all of the payments had been made several 
weeks before the scam was reported, I think its unlikely anything HSBC could reasonably 
have been expected to do would have been able to recover the money Mr H and Ms I lost.
Customer service
Our investigator recommended that HSBC should pay £200 as compensation for its failings 
surrounding the scam. But while I agree there were failings by HSBC here, Ive also 
explained why I think Mr H and Ms I should bear some responsibility too. And I dont think it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to make the arguments it did, or that there were significant 
delays in its response to this claim.
So I dont think it would be fair to require HSBC to pay any compensation here.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:Refund Mr H and Ms I 50% of the payments they made as a result of this scam, that 
are covered by the CRM code  for a total of £69,145
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it responded to Mr H and Ms Is 
claim, until the date of settlement
Refund Mr H and Ms I 50% of the payments they made as a result of this scam, that 
are not covered by the CRM code  for a total of £106,500
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payments until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms I to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman