DRN-3568335
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have reduced his credit 
limit from £3,430 to £100.
What happened
Mr J had his credit limit reduced from £3,430 to £100 on his Barclaycard credit card. He says 
he has been a customer of Barclaycard for over 30 years and he has never missed a 
payment to them. He says that his credit score is showing as excellent. Mr J made a 
complaint to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard did not uphold Mr Js complaint. They said they review their customers 
accounts regularly to see if the credit limit was appropriate for them and they decided to act 
in line with their terms and conditions and reduce Mr Js credit limit. Barclaycard said they 
may be able to increase his credit limit in the future if he keeps his account in good health. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Js complaint. She said that Barclaycards decision was 
based on affordability and risk. Our investigator said that Barclaycard acted in line with their 
terms and conditions when they reduced the credit limit and their terms state that they do not 
have to give notice to reduce a customers credit limit. She explained that as this was a 
commercial decision, that it was not in this services role to interfere with commercial 
decisions. Mr J asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that a £100 credit 
limit was virtually unusable. He requested a £500-£1,000 credit limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr J has said about his credit limit being reduced. Hes been a long 
standing customer of Barclaycard and he says hes never missed a payment to them. So I 
can understand why it may come as a shock when his credit limit was reduced to £100. Ive 
read everything that Mr J has said about this, so Im aware of the strength of his feelings 
about the matter. But in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to see that Barclaycard had 
acted outside of their terms and conditions when they reduced Mr Js credit limit. Im not 
persuaded that they have. Ill explain why below.
The terms and conditions of the account state If we reduce your credit limit based on an 
assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we have the right to not give you any notice 
beforehand. Here, Barclaycard have said that due to an assessment of risk, when they 
reviewed Mr Js credit limit, they took the decision to reduce his credit limit to £100. So Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard have acted within their terms and conditions by reducing Mr Js 
credit limit, even though he says that the £100 limit is virtually unusable.
As the decision to set a credit limit is a commercial decision, it is outside of my remit to 
instruct Barclaycard to increase Mr Js credit limit by any amount, so I cant ask them to 
increase his credit limit to £500-£1000 as Mr J requested. I know that Mr J will be strongly 
disappointed by this. But it follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to take any further 
action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman