DRN-2730529
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc has kept an exclusion on her pet insurance policy and 
declined a claim she made.
What happened
Ms S rehomed a rescue dog which came with a month free pet insurance with Allianz. 
Before this was due to end, Ms S took out a new pet insurance policy with Allianz to continue 
from then. 
During the sales call Ms S made Allianz aware that her dog had been treated for kennel 
cough and flea allergies after he was rescued. Allianz put exclusions in place on the policy 
which said he wouldnt be covered for kennel cough, flea allergies or skin disorders.
Ms S dog was later taken to the vets due to his itching, and the vet carried out some tests. 
The results showed he had a number of allergies, but wasnt specifically allergic to fleas. 
Ms S claimed for the cost of the allergy test and ongoing medication.
After reviewing the test results, Allianz removed the specific flea and kennel cough 
exclusions, but kept in place the skin disorders exclusion due to the allergies. And due to this 
exclusion, they declined Ms S claim for skin allergies.
Ms S was unhappy with this so raised a complaint with Allianz.
Allianz said that the exclusions were placed on the policy when the insurance was taken out, 
based on the information Ms S had provided during the sale. And they said that the 
exclusion for skin disorders would remain due to the allergies.
As Ms S remained unhappy, she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said hed listened 
to the sales phone call and Allianz had explained the exclusions to Ms S after she notified 
them of the pre-existing conditions. He didnt think these had been applied unfairly at that 
time based on the information Ms S had given and the underwriting criteria. 
He said that when Ms S provided further information around the allergies, Allianz removed 
the flea allergy and kennel cough exclusions, but kept the skin disorders exclusion. He said 
Allianz had acted fairly when relying on the exclusion as it remained on the policy in line with 
the underwriting criteria.
Ms S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms S dog was rescued and she rehomed him. During the call when Ms S 
purchased her pet insurance policy, Allianz asked about any pre-existing conditions and 
Ms S explained that her dog had suffered from kennel cough and flea allergies before they 
rehomed him, based on the information shed been given from the rescue centre. 
Allianzs sales agent checked this with the underwriters as pre-existing conditions arent 
covered (which isnt unusual in pet insurance policies) and added exclusions from the start 
of the policy. The allergies resulted in Allianz adding exclusions for both skin disorders and 
separately and more specifically flea bite allergy and/or flea allergy dermatitis. An exclusion 
was also added for kennel cough.
Ive seen a copy of the underwriting criteria, and Im satisfied these exclusions were fairly 
added based on the information Ms S gave during the sales call. The sales agent also told 
Ms S about these exclusions during the call. They explained the kennel cough exclusion 
could be reviewed. They also said the skin disorders exclusion could also be reviewed if her 
dog had no special diet and no other allergies, aside from flea bite allergies, within 24 
months. And the policy documents also outlined these exclusions. So I dont think Allianz 
acted unfairly here or didnt make Ms S aware of the exclusions being added.
Ms S dog was later seen by the vets for itching, and comprehensive allergy tests were 
carried out. These concluded he suffers from a number of allergies including grass, several 
food types, mould, certain insects and environmental related allergies, but not fleas 
specifically. A claim was submitted to Allianz for skin allergies, for the cost of the tests and 
medication. 
Allianz considered the allergy test results and medical history and removed the exclusions 
specifically for the flea related allergies and kennel cough. But the skin disorders exclusion 
remained in place due to the allergies and medical history.
Ive seen Allianzs underwriting criteria which shows this has correctly remained in place as 
Ms S dog suffers from a number of allergies. So I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by leaving 
this on the policy. And Allianz has removed the specific flea related allergy part of the 
exclusion based on the test results and I think thats fair in the circumstances.
The policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions, and its not unfair for Allianz to apply 
exclusions in line with its underwriting criteria, based on what its been told and a pets 
medical history. And Im satisfied this is what its done here. And theyve also removed the 
exclusions no longer relevant. So as the exclusion was fairly added, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Allianz to decline the claim on this basis.
Ms S has also asked for a list of what exactly that exclusion would exclude, in case claims 
for other things arise in the future. Allianz said initially it would try to obtain this information, 
but Im unaware if it has done so. But given the many different scenarios that could arise 
with the health of her dog, regardless of this, Ms S would need to present each claim that 
arose for consideration by Allianz to see if it was covered under her policy.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman