DRN-4013790
The complaint
Mrs H complained that Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited (Legal & General) 
had paid her insufficient redress in respect of its admitted errors and felt she was still owed a 
further payment in respect of interest.
To put things right, Mrs H wanted Legal & General to pay her an amount that reflected 
missing interest payments over the 14 years when Legal & General sent her dividend 
payments to a closed account.
What happened
Mrs H was entitled to receive income distributions from an investment she held with Legal & 
General. In summer 2021, Mrs H became aware that bank details on paperwork sent to her 
by Legal & General were incorrect and that it had failed to send her dividend distribution 
payments she was entitled to receive between 2007-2021.
Legal & General had been relying on out of date account details provided when Mrs H set up 
the investment in 2006 and sending the payments to an account that had closed in 2007. 
The payments to the closed account had bounced back but Legal & General hadnt 
informed Mrs H when this happened. And Mrs H hadnt realised that she wasnt receiving the 
quarterly dividend payments.
After she complained to Legal & General about what happened, there was an exchange of 
correspondence between the parties. Ultimately, Legal & General agreed it should have 
informed Mrs H that dividend payments it had sent to the bank account it held details for had 
been rejected and returned. Legal & General agreed to refund the last six years distributions 
and pay Mrs H an amount to reflect the full value of the older distributions, which had by then 
been reinvested in the fund and made a payment to Mrs H of £12,822.79 to reflect the total 
amount of all the missed distributions. Legal & General also made payments to Mrs H of 
£100 in recognition of the poor service she had received and £150 to reflect the additional 
worry and anxiety she had been caused. 
Mrs H also wanted Legal & General to pay interest on top of this. But Legal & General said 
Mrs H hadnt updated her bank account details as she ought to have done and as required 
by its terms and conditions. So it suggested there was responsibility on both sides for what 
had happened. Legal & General felt that overall the steps it had taken to put things right 
were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs H didn't feel Legal & Generals response to her complaint went far enough to resolve 
things. In particular, she was unhappy that Legal & General hadnt agreed to add interest to 
the amount paid in respect of the rejected dividend payments. So she brought her complaint 
to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator was sympathetic to Mrs Hs position and recognised her strength of feeling 
about what happened. But he felt that, overall, the financial redress paid by Legal & General 
and the payments it made to reflect the impact on Mrs H of the shortcomings in its service 
were a fair way to settle the complaint. He didnt think Legal & General had been solely 
responsible for the payments being returned so he didnt think Legal & General needed to do 
anything further.
Mrs H disagreed with our investigator. She mainly said (in brief summary):
the investigators conclusions that she shared responsibility for the payments going 
to the wrong account were clearly at odds with Legal & Generals admission that it 
was at fault for not informing her at any time that the dividend payments were being 
remitted back
she had received letters every quarter from Legal & General assuring her that her 
dividend distributions had been credited automatically into her bank account 
interest should be paid on the missing payments because across the whole of the 
financial world it is now common practice and often a legal requirement to pay 
interest on unpaid bills and withheld monies
she is not seeking any punitive interest payment - just the amount that she would 
have received had she invested the missing payments into a savings bank account 
for the years in question
she wants the issue of payment of interest to be referred to the Ombudsman.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Legal & General agreed that it was wrong not to have alerted Mrs H to the problems it 
encountered paying the dividends into her nominated bank account and upheld Mrs Hs 
complaint. The focus of Mrs Hs complaint is now solely the question of interest. Mrs H puts 
it this way: I am satisfied with the amount that L&G have now paid me it is the lack of 
interest I would have earned during the 15 year period when they were under an obligation 
to inform me about my unclaimed monies and failed to do so. I would like the Ombudsman to 
adjudicate on just that specific point.
So I dont need to make any findings about whats already been agreed. In my provisional 
decision I will explain why I find that Legal & General was largely responsible for the fact 
that Mrs H didnt receive the dividends when they were initially paid to her  and what I think 
Legal & General should fairly and reasonably do to put things right in these circumstances.
I've taken into account all the reasons why Mrs H says she had no particular reason to think 
she couldnt continue to rely on the arrangements she had set up to receive dividend 
payments  which I think are persuasive. 
Mrs H told us, in response to the investigators view, that originally all her investments were 
with a third party financial business I will refer to as B. Whilst B kept hold of some of those 
investments, part of her holding (the subject of this complaint) was transferred to Legal & 
General. Mrs H says that for all the holdings that remained with B, dividend payments 
continued to be paid without the need to change bank accounts. Given that she had a 
number of other investments paying dividends, I think its understandable that she wouldnt 
have necessarily realised that she wasnt receiving the dividends from this Legal & General 
holding.
Its not clear to me why payments into or out of Mrs Hs original bank account were no longer 
taking place  I dont believe it necessarily follows that a business takeover must inevitably 
mean that payments previously being paid into an existing account were no longer able to be received. So, I can understand why Mrs H wouldnt have had any particular reason to think 
that she needed to do something to ensure she would continue to receive her dividends. 
Also, I think it's fair to say that as Legal & General continued to send Mrs H tax vouchers 
that said payment had been credited automatically, that would reasonably have led Mrs H 
to believe that everything was happening as she expected and given her no cause to think 
she might not be receiving the dividend payments.
Ive kept in mind that Legal & General has accepted that it should have told Mrs H it was 
holding these unclaimed dividends for her. This seems to me to be a clear acknowledgement 
that it has been at fault here.
I have also noted that in section 20 of the account terms and conditions it says that 
unclaimed distributions will be held in the Client Money Account, and that Legal & General 
will send an annual statement showing any cash balances in that account (unless the 
customer has access to the online system showing this balance). So, arguably, Legal & 
General was under an obligation to let Mrs H know that unclaimed dividends were being held 
in a separate account (prior to them being tipped back after 6 years). I cant see any 
evidence that this happened. 
For all these reasons, to my mind it is understandable why Mrs H didnt realise she wasnt 
getting the dividends.
In terms of what Legal & General should do to put things right, I understand that the 
dividends she didnt receive were tipped back into the fund  in other words, that sum of 
money was added back into the fund for the benefit of all policyholders. Its my understanding that these tipped back dividends totalled just over £8,000. So, when 
these were added to boost the value of the fund that Mrs H was invested in, she will have 
had some small financial benefit as a result. But I dont think its likely this would have been 
significant  given that she was effectively sharing the value of her dividend with everyone 
else invested in the fund. Certainly, Mrs H would have been much better off in money terms 
as far as I can see if shed received her dividends, as she was reasonably entitled to expect. 
So I find its fair that Legal & General should be required to pay interest (at the usual 8% 
rate) on all the missed dividends, reflecting that it deprived Mrs H of her money.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs H said she was pleased with this outcome, she queried the way redress will be 
calculated and made an observation about how Legal & General could avoid the issue 
happening. 
Legal & General said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Ive set out below the steps Legal & General needs to take to put things right. This explains 
how redress should be worked out and Legal & General should provide Mrs H with details of 
its calculation so she can see how it has worked out the award.
I would also just mention briefly that how businesses choose to operate and the services 
they offer are matters that come under the oversight of the regulator - the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). 
So it would be beyond my remit to include in my decision any recommendations that Legal & 
General should change its business processes. Putting things right
Legal & General should take the following steps:
Legal & General has already calculated the total amount of the dividends Mrs H 
didnt receive from 2007 to 2021, and paid to her compensation that is equal to those 
unpaid dividends, so
it should now also pay Mrs H 8% simple interest per year on those dividend 
payments calculated from the date each payment was originally sent to Mrs H to the 
date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on this interest. If Legal & General deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. It should also 
give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax on this interest from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
set out its calculation in a clear and simple format and send this to Mrs H. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited should take 
the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman