DRN-2004489
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited wont allow him to cancel his annuity.
What happened
Mr S received documentation from Scottish Widows setting out his options with regards to 
taking his pension benefits.
At first Mr S wished to take his tax-free cash and leave the rest invested and access it at a 
later date. A call was arranged with Scottish Widows in September 2019 to go through his 
options and set this up for him. However, during the call Mr S then changed his mind and 
wanted to purchase an annuity and receive income straight away. 
Mr S was informed in the call that he had a number of options. It was explained he could:
Take the whole value as a lump sum payment with 25% being tax-free and the 
remainder taxed.
Take a 25% tax-free lump sum and keep the rest invested and access at a later date
Take the 25% tax-free lump sum and purchase an annuity which is an income that would 
be guaranteed for life
The call was over an hour and a half long and the Scottish Widows call handler went over 
the options a number of times. It was explained that the annuity options Mr S had selected 
would mean the initial annuity income would be low. And the call handler was very careful to 
try and make sure Mr S understood his options. She also signposted Mr S to the government 
pension service, Pension Wise, so that Mr S could get more help to understand his options. 
But Mr S declined to do so and was clear that he wished to have a guaranteed monthly 
income for life. And that he wanted it to be paid to his wife on his death.
The call handler referred to the literature sent to Mr S regarding his options during the call. 
And Mr S confirmed on a number of occasions that he wanted an annuity. It was explained 
that once an annuity was purchased it couldnt be changed and will be paid for life. And she 
made Ms S aware on a number of occasions that he could take the whole pension as a lump 
sum instead. She also said that Mr S might want to rearrange the call and come back with 
someone else as well to make sure he fully understood his options. But Mr S declined to do 
so. 
Mr S was then sent a quotation setting out the tax-free cash and annuity he would likely 
receive. It showed the initial annuity amount would only be approximately £100 a year and 
paid monthly. Mr S also completed the annuity acceptance form where he confirmed hed 
selected a 100% spouses pension and an annuity increasing at 8.5% a year. 
The accompanying documentation explained if Mr S decided to take an annuity it would 
have no cash in value at any time. And that the payment would proceed unless Mr S told 
them he wasnt happy to go ahead.
Mr S then received confirmation that his annuity had been setup in mid October. It wasnt 
until January the next year, that Mr S raised a complaint about this. Mr S complained that he 
couldnt take more money from his pension than he already had. But Scottish Widows didnt 
uphold the complaint as it said it had provided him with all the information required and hed 
chose to take out an annuity for life. And he was being paid on the basis agreed.
Mr S then brought his complaint to this service. He said hed made a mistake and was 
struggling financially. And that he now wanted a lump sum from the annuity. Mr S said that 
his wife was having to cover all the bills and outgoings. We asked whether Mr S could 
provide evidence regarding his and his wifes financial situation, so we could take this all into 
account. But Mr S said he didnt feel comfortable doing this.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Scottish Widows had done 
anything wrong. She explained it had done all it was required of it to make sure Mr S 
understood his options. And that it was paying Mr S what hed asked for and agreed to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S is struggling financially. But it must be understood that we can 
only uphold a complaint if we think a business has done something wrong. 
Mr S hasnt argued that Scottish Widows did anything wrong. It appears he is just unhappy 
with the amount he is receiving now and the choices he made. Hes told us hes made a 
mistake and Scottish Widows should give him a chance to change his mind.
But Im afraid, as Scottish Widows explained at the time he made his choices, once an 
annuity is setup it cannot usually be changed. Scottish Widows were clear on this matter 
with Mr S both in the call with him and in its documentation. It provided warnings that this 
decision was irreversible, but Mr S still chose to go ahead. So I cant say that Scottish 
Widows has done anything wrong here.
Whilst I appreciate the annuity Mr S has chosen is small in value. This was set out to him at 
the time and this was the choice he made. As Mr S selected to have it increasing at 8.5%, 
the annuity value started at a low amount. But each year it will increase, and Mr S will be 
receiving more money which I hope will help him financially in the future.
The investigator did ask if Scottish Widows would consider as a gesture of goodwill, cashing 
in the annuity for Mr S and paying a lump-sum. But it explained that it was now too late to 
unwind the annuity and this wasnt something it offered to other customers. Having 
considered the complaint, I can see no grounds to say that Scottish Widows has done 
anything wrong, so I cant fairly say that it should do something differently to help Mr S.
Mr S has told us hes in financial difficulty. But Mr S refused to provide any evidence of his 
financial situation, he said he didnt feel comfortable doing so. Whilst this is his right, it hasnt 
helped his position and our ability to consider whether financial difficulty means that a 
business shouldve done more.
I dont think Scottish Widows have been unfair or unreasonable in its stance that it will not 
cancel the annuity. It is paying the annuity that Mr S asked for and he agreed to. It explained 
it couldnt be cancelled and it made every effort to make sure Mr S understood what he was 
choosing. Mr S was clear that this is what he wanted at the time.There is legislation that allows annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in at the 
pension providers choice. Scottish Widows has told us that it doesnt offer this to its 
customers. But even if it did agree, Mr S annuity is worth more than £10,000 so this isnt an 
option that is available to him in any event. The fund used to buy Mr S annuity was worth 
over £13,000 and this was only a year or so ago, so it will still cost over £10,000 to provide 
this annuity today.
In conclusion, Im sorry to hear that Mr S and his family are struggling financially but I dont 
think Scottish Widows is at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman