DRN-3965194
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) unfairly provided him with 
unaffordable loans. 
Background
Zopa provided Mr S with a first loan in July 2020. The loan was for £2,000.00 and was 
initially due to be repaid in 12 months. Mr S settled this loan early before he ended up 
applying for a second loan for £7,500.00, which Zopa provided in November 2020. Loan two 
had a repayment term of 36 months.
Zopa provided a third loan for £8,500.00 in May 2021. Loan 3 had a repayment term of 36 
months. Finally, Zopa provided Mr S with a fourth loan in December 2021, which was for 
£2,000 and had a 60-month term.
Mr S complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought that proportionate 
checks would have shown Zopa that it shouldnt have provided any of these loans. So she 
upheld Mr S complaint. 
Zopa accepted that it shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Mr S. But it disagreed with our 
investigators findings on loan 1 to 3 and as a result the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
As the parties are in agreement that loan 4 shouldnt have been provided to Mr S, this 
decision is only looking at whether Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when providing loans 1 
to 3 to Mr S.
  
My provisional decision of 3 February 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 3 February 2023 - setting out why I intended to partially 
uphold Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary 
of my findings. 
I started out by saying that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide Mr S 
complaint.
 
Having carefully thought about everything, I thought that there were three overarching 
questions that I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr S complaint. 
These three overarching questions were:
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a 
point where Zopa ought reasonably to have realised Mr S indebtedness was 
being increased in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so it 
shouldnt have provided further loans?
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I started out by considering the first of these questions.
Did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? 
I explained that the rules, regulations and good industry practice in place when Zopa lent to 
Mr S required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay his loans in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to 
as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Zopa had to think about whether repaying the 
loans sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr S. In practice this 
meant that Zopa had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to 
simply think about the likelihood of Mr S making payments, it had to consider the impact of 
loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the application. In 
general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Finally I then explained that there could also be other factors which could influence how 
detailed a proportionate check shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future 
circumstances. 
I then thought about all of the relevant factors in Mr S case.
Were Zopas checks reasonable and proportionate?
Zopa said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr S before 
providing all of these loans. It said that it considered it did enough to establish that all of 
these loans were affordable. I went on to consider what it did for each loan and the position 
at the respective times, individually.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for £2,000.00, had an APR of 33.5% and was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
repayments of around £195.
From what I could see Mr S was asked about details of annual income which he confirmed 
as £28,000.00 and what he paid towards his rent or mortgage. It looked like Zopa also 
carried out a credit check which shows that he had a loan with a small outstanding balance 
and a credit card and overdraft which werent being used. 
So I thought that it was fair to say that the credit search carried out on Mr S showed that his 
existing credit commitments were well managed. It was also my understanding that the 
purpose of this loan was recorded as car purchase. I noted that our investigator stated that 
Zopa ought to have carried out further checks simply because the amount advanced wasnt 
that much more than the monthly disposable income arrived at and it wasnt sensible to take 
out a loan for this amount and purpose in these circumstances. But I wasnt persuaded by 
this argument given this was a first loan that Mr S was taking with Zopa. 
I accepted that Zopa may not have asked Mr S for further information about his other 
household bills and expenditure. However, given what was left over from his monthly income 
once his mortgage payments and payments to existing credit commitments were deducted, I 
was satisfied that a detailed breakdown of Mr S non-credit related expenditure wasnt 
necessary here.  
Bearing in mind Zopa obtained a reasonable amount of information on Mr S circumstances 
and there wasnt anything inconsistent in what was gathered, I was satisfied that it did carry 
out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing loan 1 to Mr S. And given that 
these checks showed Mr S had sufficient disposable income to make the required payments, 
I was also satisfied that Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 1 to Mr S.  
Loan 2
Loan 2 was for £7,500.00, had an APR of 23.9% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
repayments of just under £285. Its also important to note that Mr S had already fully settled 
the outstanding balance on loan 1 before he applied for loan 2. 
From what I could see Zopa carried out similar checks to what it had done for loan 1. Mr S 
once again confirmed he had an annual salary of £28,000.00 and this time he confirmed that 
he was a homeowner with mortgage payments of £280 a month. Zopas credit check also 
showed that Mr S had a credit card, with a small outstanding balance and a catalogue 
shopping account which wasnt being used. So I thought that the credit search carried out on Mr S showed that his existing credit 
commitments were still being well-managed and his overall indebtedness was still very low. 
However, I did think that there was a warning sign  Mr S returning for a second loan so 
quickly  which Zopa ought to have noted. Nonetheless, given loan 1 was settled in full prior 
to loan 2 being taken, I would only have expected Zopa to have kept the warning sign I 
highlighted in mind should Mr S have returned for further lending, rather than declined Mr S 
loan application for this reason. 
Once again, it appeared as though Zopa didnt ask Mr S for further information about his 
other household bills and expenditure. However, given what was left over from his monthly 
income once his mortgage payments and payments to existing credit commitments were 
deducted, I remained satisfied that a detailed breakdown of Mr S non-credit related 
expenditure wasnt necessary  especially as the monthly payments werent that much more 
than for loan 1- albeit he had to maintain payments for a longer period of time.  
So bearing in mind Zopa obtained a reasonable amount of information on Mr S 
circumstances and while there was a matter to note and monitor going forwards, I was 
satisfied that it did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before providing loan 2 to  
Mr S. And given that these checks showed Mr S had sufficient disposable income to make 
the required payments, I was satisfied that Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when providing 
loan 2 to Mr S.  
Loan 3
Loan 3 was for £8,500.00, had an APR of 9.7% and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
repayments of just over £270. I had seen that Zopa had referred to a lump sum payment 
being made on loan 2, which had the effect of reducing the outstanding balance and 
lowering the monthly repayments going forwards. 
However, from what I could see this lump-sum payment wasnt made until after Mr S had 
been provided with loan 3. And there was nothing in the documentation provided which 
suggested that some of the proceeds of loan 3 were going to be used to reduce the 
outstanding amount on loan 2 in this way. So I was satisfied that Zopa needed to be mindful 
that, at the time at least, there was the expectation that Mr S would make the full initial 
monthly payment to loan 2 as well as the monthly payment loan 3 going forward. 
Loan 3 was also only taken out only a few months after loan 2. And Zopa still only carried 
out similar checks to what it had done for loans 1 and 2. Mr S once again confirmed he had 
an annual salary of £28,000.00 and that he was a homeowner with mortgage payments of 
£280 a month. Zopas credit check also showed that Mr S was close to his limit on his credit 
card and also now had an outstanding balance on his catalogue shopping account too. 
While I was satisfied that Mr S quickly returning for loan 2 was a warning sign to have been 
monitored going forward, I thought that Mr S returning for loan 3 so quickly after loan 2 was 
now a cause for concern. And in these circumstances, I was satisfied that it was no longer 
fair and reasonable for Zopa to assume Mr S had enough left over to meet his non-credit 
related living costs. 
It was my view that Mr S increasing indebtedness and apparent need for a third loan in such 
quick succession ought to have prompted Zopa to have asked further questions about his 
living costs and regular non-credit related expenditure. Given the circumstances, I thought 
that Zopa needed to get a better understanding of why Mr S wanted or needed this much in 
funds so quickly and when his debts elsewhere were mounting up. As there was no evidence that Zopa did find out more about Mr S circumstances, or that it 
asked Mr S to provide anything more than he had done for loans 1 and 2 despite him now 
applying for funds for a third time in just over a year, I was minded to conclude that it didnt 
complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing loan 3 to 
Mr S.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Zopa that Mr S would have 
been unable to repay loan 3?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before loan 3 was provided, 
I couldnt say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I needed to decide whether it was more 
likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Zopa that Mr S wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr S had provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied for 
loan 3. I accepted that different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Mr S had provided, it didnt mean it wouldve shown 
up in any checks Zopa mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Zopa showing what this information would have 
shown, I thought it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on what this information said as an indication of what Mr S financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I thought that it was also important to note that Zopa was required to establish whether Mr S 
could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I said this as Zopa had said 
that the loan was affordable because Mr S did make his payments and he managed to repay 
his loan early.
I explained that the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis 
might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their 
repayments in circumstances where it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Having considered the information available in light of all of this, it was clear that Mr S was 
struggling to manage his finances. It didnt take too much probing and digging to see that the 
reason for Mr S further loans and increasing indebtedness was because he was gambling 
unsustainable sums of money. And his ability to repay loan 3 would in large part be 
dependent on his success as a gambler, which I didnt think was a reasonable basis for 
concluding that Mr S could repay his loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to loan 3 (as well as loan 4 as Zopa had already agreed) without borrowing 
further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in these circumstances, I concluded that 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have alerted Zopa to the 
fact that Mr S would not be able to sustainably make the repayments to loan 3. 
Did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?I didnt see anything during the course of considering Mr S complaint that led me to 
conclude Zopa acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.  
So it was not my intention to find that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S 
in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out earlier in 
my provisional decision, I was left intending to issue a final decision which found that Zopa:
did complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself that he 
was able to repay loans 1 and 2 and that it made fair and reasonable decisions to 
provide these loans; 
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself that he 
was able to repay loans 3 and that such checks would have shown he was unlikely to 
be able to repay this loan without suffering adverse consequences or borrowing 
further;
didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way.
The above findings left me intending to conclude that Zopa unfairly and unreasonably 
provided loan 3 to Mr S in May 2021 (as well as loan 4 which Zopa has already agreed it 
shouldnt have provided) and that it needed put things right.
I then set out a method of putting things right for Mr S which I thought addressed Zopas 
shortcomings and Mr S resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zopa confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He thought that Zopa shouldnt have provided 
him with loan 2 (as well as loans 3 and 4) because during the 27-day period between loan 1 
being repaid and loan 2 being provided he took out two other loans with other providers.    
Mr S believed that these loans would have been picked up fairly easily if Zopa did a little 
more digging. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. 
Ive considered Mr S further points.  
Mr S says that the 27-day period between loan 1 being repaid and loan 2 being provided 
necessitated further checks as he supposedly had little in the way of existing debt yet 
needed £7,500.00 for debt consolidation purposes. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that Mr S returning for a second loan so quickly was a warning sign. And that this was 
something that Zopa ought to have noted  certainly should Mr S return for further loans.
 However, I didnt think that this in itself meant that Zopa shouldnt have lent, as its credit 
check showed that Mr S had a credit card, with a small outstanding balance and a catalogue 
shopping account which wasnt being used. This information showed that Mr S existing 
credit commitments were still being well-managed. And as they didnt show on the credit 
searches carried out, I dont think that Zopa can be expected to have known about Mr S 
other loans. Equally, I dont think that it was unreasonable to believe that at least some of 
the proceeds of loan 2 could be used for consolidation purposes as the interest rate on loan 
2 is likely to have been lower than that on Mr S revolving credit accounts.
Mr S says that it wouldnt have taken too much digging into his circumstances to have found 
out about his other loans. Im not necessarily persuaded this is the case, given they didnt 
show on the credit file and Mr S is unlikely to have made any scheduled repayments to those 
loans in the 27 days between loan 1 being repaid and loan 2 being taken. But, in any event, I 
think that the rest of the information Zopa already had was plausible and consistent and 
didnt necessitate further checks into Mr S circumstances.
I also think that its worth noting that Mr S was the only party in full knowledge of his true 
financial position. And he chose not to declare the other loans or other payments he was 
making. I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to ignore Mr S role in this 
matter, in circumstances where Zopa carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and 
was entitled to rely on what it had gathered.  
Overall and having considered Mr S further points, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
conclusions on loan 2 and I remain satisfied that Zopa acted fairly and reasonably when 
providing this loan to Mr S. 
As this is the case, I also remain satisfied that Zopa unfairly and unreasonably provided loan 
3 to Mr S in May 2021 (as well as loan 4 which Zopa has already agreed it shouldnt have 
provided). So Im still partially upholding Mr S complaint and Zopa now needs put things 
right.
Fair compensation  what Zopa needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having considered everything, I think that Zopa should put things right for Mr S in the 
following way:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loans 3 and 4 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balances  the £8,500.00 
and £2,000.00 originally lent. Zopa should treat any payments made should the new 
starting balances be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr S. 
if no outstanding balance remains on loan 3 and/or loan 4 after all adjustments have 
been made any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of the 
respective loan should be removed.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If after all of the above adjustments have been made an outstanding balance remains on 
either or both of Mr S loans, Zopa should set up an affordable payment plan for Mr S. Id 
also remind Zopa of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it intends 
to collect on any outstanding balances, should any remain after all adjustments have been 
made to the accounts, and its the case that Mr S is experiencing financial difficulty.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 3 February 2023, Im 
partially upholding Mr S complaint. Zopa Bank Limited should put things right for Mr S in the 
way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman