DRN-4005279
The complaint
Mr S has complained that two bonds he invested in were mis-sold to him by Gallium Fund 
Solutions Limited. He said he was incorrectly informed the bonds would be covered by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and given reassurances that the 
investments were secure. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
In late February 2017, Mr S invested £10,000 in a five-year Fixed Monthly Income Bond. 
And in April 2017 he invested £20,000 in a three-year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond. 
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged 
applications for investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising/marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call 
BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium 
from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ss investment in the bond
Mr S became aware of the investments through an an advertisment he saw 
online.  
Mr S said he invested all of his savings with BG Ltd. He said he approached BG 
Ltd because they are advertising high interest rates. He was also led to believe 
the investments were secure and protected by the government through the 
FSCS.  Mr S had invested funds with BG Ltd in the year before he took out these 
bonds, but has also complained about the sale of his ealier investments. 
Mr S recalls speaking to BG Limted when applying. We asked for copies of any 
call recordings BG Ltd held. We were provided with copies of call recordings from 
before he applied and after the investment in the bonds was made. But we 
havent been provided any calls in relation to when Mr S was actually making 
applications to invest in the two bonds subject to this complaint. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of 
BG Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the 
fact that nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short 
term and pay day lender. Following action by the FCA, the lender went into 
administration in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. 
As a result, Mr S has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence relating to Mr Ss application to invest in the 
Febrary 2017 bond. I have been provided with a copy of the records BG Ltd held on its 
system but this doesnt confirm the application history for this bond. I have a copy of the 
bond certificate showing an application date of 27 February 2017.   
There is some evdience to support that Mr S  applied for the April 2017 IFISA Bond  
online. For example, Ive seen an email confirmation from April 2017 that thanks Mr S 
for his online application. The system records also show that Mr S tagged as an 
everyday investor on the 31 March 2017. This is in line with what Gallium has told us 
about the application process being online. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show 
the application journey that Mr S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to 
meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on how to test 
whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr S was categorised as an everyday investor (as mentioned 
above). The second was the appropriateness test. 
We have asked Mr S about his investment experience and assets. He told us, in summary: 
Before investing with B&G all of his savings had been accumulating by saving money 
through the banking system.
He invested all his savings in B&G.
He was led to believe that it was good and secure to invest in B&G, and led to 
believe that his investments were backed by securities/properties.
Galliums response to Mr Ss complaint
In April 2020, Mr S complained to Gallium about the sale of his bonds.
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said Mr S had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ss 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr S as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
S for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: Regardless of label, Mr S was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr S giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
I issued a Provisional Decision in February 2023. This is what I said:
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of these two bonds. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I 
have taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory 
system (PRIN 1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 
(Communications with clients) are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules 
restricting who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was 
appropriate for the potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 
10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have 
considered these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator. However, my findings on application process for 
the Febraury 2017 bond differ slightly. 
The investigator considered the complaint on the basis that Mr S applied for both bonds 
online following the application process that was detailed by Gallium in the submissions it 
made to this service. As previously mentioned, there is limited evdience to indicate how the 
February 2017 bond was applied for. But whether this was online or through another 
process, I havent found that BG Ltd met its obligations  so Im minded to reach the same 
conclision for both sales.  
In summary:BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr S into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr S fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr S, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr S.
If Mr S applied for his investments in a different way, I havent seen evidence to 
support that Gallium met its obligations in respect of certification and appropriateness 
test as required.
Mr S didnt provide any further submissions. And I didnt receive any further evidence or 
arguments from Gallium by the deadline set for responses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S or Gallium has made more comments or arguments for me to consider, Ive 
got no reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find Mr S would either not 
have proceeded to make the investments or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr S for his loss and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr S 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestFive-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
Bond - 
February 
2017 saleStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Three-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond 
- April 2017 
sale Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investments at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible to take ownership, then it 
may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any amount he may receive 
from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman