DRN-3849163
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wouldnt replace his cars windscreen with 
a manufacturers original after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim for a windscreen replacement and he expected a like for like 
replacement from his understanding of the policys terms and conditions. But UKI said it 
wasnt its policy to fit manufacturers original glass and referred Mr G to the policys terms 
and conditions. But Mr G was unhappy with this.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
policy explained that UKI could replace the windscreen with a replacement of a similar 
standard to the original. But he thought UKIs policy term stating that it would pay up to the 
market value for repairs or replacement of a windscreen was unclear. And he thought UKI 
should pay Mr G £50 compensation for the confusion this caused.  
UKI replied that it was Mr Gs assumption that had caused the confusion and it didnt think 
compensation was warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI said its policy made it clear that it didnt provide manufacturers glass for replacement 
windscreens. It relied on the following policy term and condition on page 7 of the policy 
booklet to justify this:
Replacing parts in your car
We may decide to repair your car with parts that havent been made by your cars 
manufacturer, but that are of a similar standard.
So I think its clear that UKI doesnt have to replace the windscreen with a manufacturers 
glass, but with one of a similar standard. I dont think this is an unusual policy term. And so I 
think UKI is correct in not upholding this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
But on pages 9 and 10 of the policy booklet, UKI set out in a table the policy limits for the 
various aspects covered. This includes windscreen damage. It states that If you use an 
approved windscreen supplier, UKI will pay up to the market value. This is repeated on 
page 17. 
But market value is only defined in the policy in relation to the value of the car. Mr G 
obtained an estimate from UKIs approved supplier to replace his windscreen with 
manufacturers glass as he thought this was in keeping with the market value. 
UKI, in its response to Mr Gs complaint, explained, 
This is the market value of the windscreen we are replacing it with, not the windscreen you 
already have or the market value of your car.
I agree that this policy limit is unclear and that UKI could have better explained it to avoid 
any confusion. The fact that UKI had to explain it confirms this. I think UKI has caused Mr G 
trouble and upset by not explaining this policy limit better. I agree with the Investigator that it 
should compensate him for this. And I think £50 compensation is in keeping with our 
published guidance for the impact this error had. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr G £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman