DRN-3336578
The complaint
M, a company, complains on behalf of Ms A about the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited
trading as Legal and General dealt with her home insurance claim for flooding.
What happened
In early February 2020 Ms A suffered flooding at her home. When the flood happened, she
instructed M to carry out mitigation works and it installed temporary piping and a pumping
system. There was a further flood in late February. Ms A reported the damage online on 27
February, and then M on her behalf reported the claim to Fairmead in early March. From that
point M made it clear that it was acting on Ms As behalf, and that any correspondence had
to be by email, as Ms A suffered from verbal impairment and wasnt able to discuss matters
over the telephone.
Fairmead appointed loss adjusters who made a site visit on 11 March in the presence of a
representative from M. It was noted that substantial strip out and flood mitigation work had
already been carried out by M, for which it presented costs of over £19,000. The loss
adjuster noted that it was caused by a blocked culvert and that the internal damage affected
three rooms on the ground floor. He reported back to Fairmead and indicated that he had
spoken to Ms representative who had told him that Ms A didnt at the time require alternative
accommodation (AA) as she preferred to stay in the property. This was later denied by M.
The loss adjuster also reported that the property looked as if it was built in the late 1800s but
the build date on the insurance schedule was 1950. Fairmead corresponded with M about
this but Ms A had communicated with Fairmead prior to her renewal in 2017 and advised 
that she was unaware of the exact date the property was built. Fairmead had continued to 
renew the policy.
M complained about the delay and about the demands made on Ms A by the loss adjusters
emails. It also pointed out that Ms A hadnt been offered AA and that Fairmead hadnt
accepted liability or paid her costs. Fairmead responded in early May 2020 and said it would
pay Ms A compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. In respect
of the work already carried out, it sent through its contractors assessment and said it
wouldnt pay for preventative work, and the damage to the electric gates wasnt covered
under the policy. With regard to AA it said it would consider that once liability was accepted 
but in the meantime asked for details of any costs incurred.
Fairmead became concerned that it was receiving communications purporting to be from
Ms A but drafted in the confrontational style used by M. It also said that Ms As email
address wasnt registered on its database. It also was concerned that M was running the
claim but didnt appear to be in touch with Ms A. It sought legal advice from its solicitors who
advised that an ID check needed to be carried out to ensure that Ms A was aware of the
claim and of the actions of M. It appointed a firm, C, who carried out private investigations, to
do this but Ms A didnt want to meet anyone from that firm. Eventually it was agreed that a
meeting would take place at her property and she would then present ID documents to
Fairmeads representatives. This meeting took place in early September (having been
postponed from a few days before). After this meeting Fairmead was satisfied that liability
could be accepted.
M initially complained to this service in September 2020.
Having established that Ms A wanted to use her own contractors Fairmead set about
reviewing the matter so as to provide a cash settlement. After a site visit took place in late 
September, Fairmeads surveyor assessed the claim to be worth around £22,900 plus VAT. 
However it wasnt satisfied that M had provided the necessary information concerning the 
loss or damage to the contents, so put forward an offer of around £15,500 which was 
rejected. Through its solicitors Fairmead asked for further documentary evidence of Ms 
costs. For the most part M declined to provide this, asserting it was an unreasonable 
request. Fairmead reconsidered the matter and decided to accept the claim for a new boiler. 
In May 2021 it made a final offer of £32,374 which included VAT, the cost of a new boiler, a 
replacement stair carpet, and a disturbance allowance of £840. The latter figure was based 
on the number of days it considered that it would take for the building work to be completed, 
at a rate of £10 per day. M estimated the damages to be around £200,000 but nevertheless 
appointed a surveyor as a result of which it claimed costs of £98,665. M rejected the 
settlement offer on Ms As behalf but nevertheless Fairmead paid this directly into Ms As 
account in early June 2021.
Fairmead sent a further final response letter in November 2020. It didnt offer any further
compensation.
M reported that further flooding took place in November and December 2020, and again in
January 2021 which Ill deal with in this decision. I understand that M raised a further
complaint about the January 2021 flood which it has dealt with separately. I understand that
further flooding occurred after that which will need to be the subject of separate claims.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Fairmead should pay a further £500
compensation for the delays it had caused. She further said that it should pay 8% interest on
the settlement from the date of its original offer in December 2020 until its payment in June
2021. But that wasnt agreed and the complaint came to me.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I largely agreed with the investigators view, but I thought 
that interest should be paid on the whole amount of the eventual payment, and for a longer 
period.
Fairmead accepted my provisional findings.
Ms A didnt accept, Ill set out her views, as expressed on her behalf by M, in my findings 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to Ms comments on the background of my provisional decision, I have largely 
used it again above. Ive set out the facts of the matter presented to me from the documents 
provided by both parties. Ive altered a couple of points to make the position clearer. But my 
comments on Ms response will be confined to the findings, and Ill deal with those below. M 
has sent in a detailed response. And although I appreciate Ms As desire to raise every 
point, I confirm that Ive considered every point M has raised in response but in this decision 
I will just highlight the points I think need a reply, again in accordance with our approach to 
complaints.scope of this decision
In my provisional findings I said:
I should set out what my position is here. This service offers an alternative dispute 
resolution service. Our function is to try to resolve informally complaints between businesses 
and customers. This means that we will take a holistic approach, we dont forensically 
examine each and every detail of the complaints. And I wont go through every piece of 
evidence or every letter of complaint in this decision, although I can assure Ms A Ive 
considered them.
I should also add that how a business handles its complaints is not a regulated activity. So I
have no jurisdiction to consider Fairmeads complaints handling procedure. This includes
any allegation that Fairmead didnt answer each and every complaint or that its CEO didnt
get involved in the complaints process. I should emphasise that this just concerns the
complaint handling process. Ill deal with the allegations that Fairmead failed to respond to
emails concerning the claim in my findings below.
Any complaints that Fairmead or its agents breached the Data Protection Act dont fall within
my remit. Those should be referred to the Information Commissioner.
In connection with each of its points of complaint M says that Ms A was treated unfavourably
because of her race and her sex. M hasnt particularly raised the issue of disability but if I
understand it right Ms A suffered from a verbal impairment which may be a disability.
These are protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010, and I shall set out my view
in respect of each complaint and where relevant as to whether I think Fairmead breached
that Act, either in respect of the service it provided or in failing to make reasonable
adjustments. This is in addition to the overall consideration as to what was fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
M says that when Fairmead raised questions, Ms A responded to each and every question it 
raised. Yet it refused to answer each and every point M raised in its emails with Fairmead  
it considers this to be a one sided approach.
I think this is a question of degree, I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect 
Fairmead to answer each and every point made in Ms emails. And I dont think a failure to 
do this stopped the claim from progressing. Ive set out below what I considered reasonable 
to ask of Ms A or her representatives.
M says Ms A was suffering a disability, due to her impairments and Covid self-isolation. 
Ill accept that and Ive taken it into account.
communication issues
In my provisional findings I said:
When Fairmead first attended the property its adjuster was met by a representative of M,
and told that Ms A had a verbal impairment. The adjuster recorded that he was unable to
meet with or speak to Ms A, but M had sent her written authority for it to act on her behalf. M
advised that she was able to communicate by email and it required all communications to be
by email.
There was some confusion over who was able to make decisions about the claim. Ms A was
given the impression that the loss adjuster who visited was able to make those decisionswhen he was not in fact able to do so in view of the size of the claim. She was also
contacted by telephone on one occasion when M had said this wasnt to happen.
I can understand why Ms A was confused at first. M had already carried out substantial
stripping out and flood prevention works for which it had billed over £19,000 and she was
understandably anxious to have that paid.
I do think though that Fairmead clarified the position to Ms A. And its adjuster apologised
for attempting to speak to her over the telephone. I think they were reasonable responses.
Thereafter Ms A was contacted by email, and it was made clear to her the liability for the
claim couldnt yet be agreed. Firstly Fairmead required to do a financial check on Ms A, then
following the visit to the property it raised the issue of the age of the property (which Ill deal
with in more detail below). Over this period M sent through a substantial amount of emails,
raising a number of points. M complained on Ms As behalf that a number of its points
werent replied to. It also alleged that the emails sent to Ms A by the loss adjuster were
controlling and threatening.
In respect of the telephone call, I agree that this shouldnt have happened. However the loss
adjuster apologised for this and I cant see that there was any deliberate failure here. There
were no further calls so Im satisfied that Fairmead made reasonable adjustments for Ms A. 
As to the content of the emails, I have looked at them objectively and taken into account
what would be fair and reasonable to expect the insurer to do in this case. The loss adjuster
was attempting to progress the case but he had to do so in the context of what Fairmead
required to establish its liability for the claim. On that basis having considered the emails I
dont find them to be controlling or threatening. I think Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably
and I dont think there was any breach of the Equality Act.
As for the failure to answer every point in the emails from M or Ms A I think Fairmead had to
act proportionately and deal with the points that were needed to progress the claim.
M says that Ms A gave consent for the loss adjuster to enter her home or it would be 
regarded as trespass. And that the said loss adjuster said he was disappointed with 
Fairmeads conduct of the claim and left his employment with Fairmead within a year. It also 
says there were more telephone calls from Fairmeads sub-contractors. It continues to assert 
that Ms A found the emails to be controlling and threatening.
I have set out what this particular loss adjuster said in his report. As I wasnt there I cant say 
whether Ms A personally met with him. Theres no indication in the papers that the loss 
adjuster was disappointed with Fairmeads response, although I accept that he wanted to get 
on with dealing with the claim. If there were further telephone calls I dont know the context 
of those. But I think its clear that reasonably quickly Fairmead accepted that all 
correspondence had to be by email and through M. So I wont take this point any further. 
On the subject of the emails, I understand that Ms A felt they were threatening to her. But as 
I say an objective reading of them doesnt raise that in my mind and I think they were the 
sort of emails that would likely occur in any regular insurance claim.
work done before the claim was raised
In my provisional findings I said:
Ms A says she logged the claim online on 27 February 2020. Fairmead recorded it as 
having been made on 5 March 2020. I havent seen the online record of when the claim was 
made, but it is clear that Ms A contacted M first about the loss and that M immediately 
carried out various strip out and flood prevention work, before the claim was made. As far as 
I can see M isnt a claims management company or loss assessor. It is a building contractor who took on dealing with the claim for Ms A. However I would have expected M to know that 
normally the insurer should be contacted first to get its authority to carry out such extensive 
work. The relevant part of the policy is:
We may refuse to agree costs that are incurred by you before our agreed consent is given
or for damaged items that are disposed of before inspection.
A similar term appears in most home insurance policies.
I appreciate that some work may have needed to be done in an emergency but in
circumstances as here where that work was done without authority, Fairmead then had to
gather evidence in order to assess what would be fair and reasonable to pay out in respect
of those works. And the policy covers damage caused by the flood, not preventative work.
So although I appreciate that M carried out some work to prevent future flood damage that
wouldnt be covered by the policy.
I think Fairmead acted fairly and reasonably in its questioning over the initial repairs. This
would be a reasonable thing to do in any claim, and I dont find that Ms A was singled out
because of her race or sex. And again I bear in mind that she was represented on a
professional basis.
I understand that Ms A disagrees with this. However I cant see that M has raised any 
additional points in this that I need to answer. 
property build value
In my provisional findings I said:
When the loss adjuster first visited the property, he advised that the property was likely bult
in the late 1800s. Yet the policy schedule stated that it was built in 1950. Fairmead said it
needed to establish when the property was built as this could have affected the claim, and
the premium for the policy.
Ms A had in fact raised this with Fairmead, in 2017. She had emailed it at renewal then to
say she wasnt sure when the property was built. Fairmead said it couldnt discuss the issue
by email. And there was no indication given by Ms A then that she would have had any
difficulty discussing over the telephone. But the matter was just left, and Fairmead continued
to renew the policy.
I think it was fair for Fairmead to query the build date of the property. But It knew when it was
raised in 2020 that there was no question of Ms A having misrepresented the build date as
she had said she didnt know, and Fairmead had continued to renew the policy.
Fairmead continued to try and find evidence of the build date, including obtaining a copy of
the land register. It said that it wasnt able to proceed with the claim until it obtained this
information. I dont think this was reasonable. It wouldnt have affected the claim, because
Fairmead had accepted and continued to provide cover knowing the build date was 
unknown. So though Fairmead may have wished to continue finding out about the build date,
it shouldnt have held up the claim to do so. It first raised this matter with Ms A in early April
2020, and in the course of obtaining advice from its solicitors in early June 2020, it decided
not to pursue that point any further.
So I think there was a two month delay here. However even though Ive found that Fairmead
didnt act reasonably here, I dont think its actions had anything to do with Ms As race or
sex. I think it likely that any consumer with such a query on its policy would have been askedfor that information (and had Fairmead pursued the issue in the same way as it did here, it
would still have been wrong to do so, for the same reasons). I bear in mind that it is the
policyholders responsibility to ensure that their policy details are accurate.
M says this was a deliberate act on the part of Fairmead to delay the claim, and avoid paying 
the claim. It points out that it didnt receive a response to its email sent in May 2020 until 
September 2020.
M has its opinion on this. I dont think this was a deliberate attempt to delay the claim by 
Fairmead. I stand by my findings here. I dont think that Fairmead acted fairly here in 
pursuing the issue of the build date, although it had valid reasons for initially querying it.
verifying Ms As identity and checking her welfare
In my provisional findings I said:
As Ive said, when the loss adjuster first visited the property he recorded that he wasnt able
to speak to Ms A, and M made it clear that no telephone contact was to be made. Fairmead
became concerned about the claim and decided to appoint C to assure itself of the bona
fides of the claim. It became concerned for the following reasons:
Emails were sent purportedly in Ms As name though written in Ms confrontational style,
raising suspicions that they were written by M.
M had billed over £19,000 of work it had carried out or instructed contractors to do so,
and then dealt with the claim in the aforesaid confrontational style in such a way that
raised concerns of a conflict of interest.
Ms As email address wasnt verified or linked to her account.
M indicated that Ms A wasnt contactable but continued to correspond on her behalf.
I should make it clear that if an insurer becomes concerned about the bona fides of a claim
or of a consumers representative, its entitled to take such action as it deems necessary.
This may include instructing an independent investigator. But this would be frustrating to the
consumer, as Fairmead, to ensure the validity of any outcome, couldnt reasonably disclose
the nature of its investigations.
Fairmead decided, after taking legal advice that it needed to verify Ms As identity. Ms A
opted (reluctantly) to do this through a personal visit, but wanted Fairmead to appoint a
female employee to do this.
I think that Fairmeads decision to verify Ms As identity was reasonable, but in my view it
should have done this after the first visit on 11 March 2020. I say that as in my view there
were already sufficient concerns at that stage. It had been corresponding via the unverified
email address so I can understand why Ms A was distressed that two months into the claim
Fairmead needed to verify her ID. The ID check itself took three months to carry out, but that
was partly because of Ms As refusal to meet with anyone from C, and the availability of
Fairmeads and Cs employees. There was a visit scheduled for late August 2020 but that
had to be postponed. I should make it clear that I think the postponement of that visit was
reasonable (because the employees were tied up after a particular storm struck).
In July 2020 Fairmead contacted the police as it was concerned for Ms As welfare. A police
officer visited the property. M has said this was unnecessary and caused great distress toMs A. Whilst I can understand Ms As point of view, I cant say that Fairmead acted
unreasonably. The police officer satisfied himself as to her welfare but that doesnt mean the
visit wasnt a reasonable action to take. Fairmead, in my view, had a duty of care to Ms A,
and it discharged that duty reasonably, on this occasion, by involving the police.
I also dont think the requirement for an ID check or asking the police officer to visit were
breaches of the Equality Act. I think Fairmead had genuine reasons for its actions which
werent linked to Ms As race or sex.
M believes this was part of a vendetta on the part of Fairmead to prevent it from acting as 
Ms As representative. It reiterates that the loss adjuster was met at the property by Ms M, 
and if he was dissatisfied should have chased it up. It says that without a forensic report on 
the content of Ms As emails any evidence on this point is inadmissible. It points out that 
Ms A registered her email through Fairmeads secure portal (after Fairmead raised the 
question of her identity) and that the issues of her identity could have been sorted out in 
2017. Finally it points out that C raised concerns that Ms A was being kidnapped or 
cuckooed by a drugs criminal syndicate which was used as a pretext for getting the police 
involved.
I have to assess the evidence objectively and determine in that context what is most likely to 
have happened. I accept that Fairmead had concerns about M and that M viewed those 
concerns as unreasonable. But, just because those concerns may not have been borne out, 
doesnt mean they werent genuine concerns. The need to verify Ms As identity came about 
through Fairmead taking legal advice, and that meant getting up to date verification of her 
identity. I dont have access to police records or to their view of the matter so I cant answer 
the point about the reason given to the police for their involvement. I understand that it was a 
female police officer who attended, and Im happy to correct that.
alternative accommodation (AA)
In my provisional findings I said:
M asserted that Ms A needed AA, and that Fairmead failed to provide it for over seven
months. When the loss adjuster visited in March he recorded that he was told by Ms
representative that Ms A didnt need AA. However M then did say that Ms A needed AA and
criticised Fairmead on number of occasions for not providing it. Later, as part of the
settlement Fairmead paid £840 (84 days at £10 per day) as a disturbance allowance (DA)
which is sometimes paid by an insurer in lieu of a policyholder moving into AA.
I think Fairmead summed up the position concerning AA in its first final response letter of 12
May 2020:
It was more than happy to fund this element of the claim if liability was accepted.
During the period the home was made uninhabitable by the flood it was happy to fund
the cost of AA. Alternatively it could pay a daily DA.
It asked for details of any AA paid for to date, which M didnt provide until some time later.
And Fairmeads solicitors made it clear that only the cost actually incurred would be paid.
That is normal  if the consumer stays in their home an insurer wont pay for AA they didnt
use. Im unclear about whether Ms A actually stayed in AA during the initial months before
liability was accepted. I also havent seen evidence that the property was uninhabitable i.e.
without washing and/or cooking facilities, such that might require AA or a DA to be provided
(where the home continues to be lived in) during this time. M said Ms A was without heating
or hot water, the notes on the claim indicated that the heating was only partially out of action.
In its second final response letter of 5 November 2020 Fairmead said:In order to ensure any accommodation arranged on behalf of our mutual client is
comparable, we are entitled to request details of the property and you will need to provide
this information to [loss adjuster] for his consideration. You will also need to demonstrate
that the insured property was uninhabitable during this time.
M presented an invoice, on its headed paper for the cost of AA. Fairmead requested details
of the property, or at least the area, together with an invoice from a landlord or agent. I think
that was reasonable. M didnt own the AA, and despite its reluctance to disclose the address
I dont think that its invoice was satisfactory evidence that the AA had been paid for. It is
normal, in any insurance claim to expect consumers to produce documentary evidence of
any cost actually incurred. If M can produce evidence that Ms A (or M on her behalf) actually
paid for AA it should produce that to Fairmead. It was accepted by Fairmead that during the
works, AA would be paid for (if taken up), but if Ms A had opted to stay, DA was provided for
in the settlement.
I think Fairmead acted reasonably here. And I dont think it unfairly singled out Ms A
because of her race or sex.
M says I have overlooked the fact that Fairmead has saved itself thousands by not paying 
for AA. It says it has provided us and Fairmead with numerous documented emails that the 
house was uninhabitable, and still is. Ms A currently has no cooking facilities and Fairmead 
refuse to resolve the matter. In respect of property invoices, it says the onus is on Fairmead 
to provide evidence that any said invoices provided to it are incorrect or false, and it has not. 
Therefore, Fairmead should still be liable for a property since the claim started, and if I do 
not agree the courts will, as this is a basic contractual agreement and Fairmeads obligation.
While M has asserted and continues to assert that the property was uninhabitable, Im not 
satisfied that it was. In particular M arranged to carry out work to repair the property, as Ms A 
had opted to use her own contractors.  I accept that during a reasonable period for the 
repairs to take place Ms A would have been entitled to AA or DA, which is what was 
provided
I disagree however that Ms invoice for AA was satisfactory evidence. On the basis that any 
reasonable home insurance claim for AA would involve evidence from the landlord or a 
letting agent that such costs were incurred, the onus is on the policyholder to produce 
evidence of loss. I dont accept either that Fairmead would be liable for the likely costs of 
such AA even if Ms A didnt use it. On the point that the house is still uninhabitable, Ms A 
has had her repair settlement which should have been used to ensure the property was 
habitable.
amount of settlement
In my provisional findings I said:
Claims are dealt with according to the terms of the policy. The relevant term is:
We may offer repair or replacement through our approved suppliers. If you prefer to use
your own tradesman, or receive a cash settlement for replacement goods instead, we
will need to agree this with you beforehand. Any payment will generally not exceed the
discounted amount we would have paid to our chosen supplier.
I think that Ms A made it clear through M that she didnt want Fairmeads contractors to carry 
out the work. And as she had already contracted M before the claim I think it was reasonable 
for Fairmead to cost the work and pay a settlement according to what it would have paid its 
own chosen supplier.Firstly Fairmead said it wouldnt pay for any preventative work. This included putting in
temporary piping and pumps to clear the water away. It also wouldnt pay for the
replacement of the back door with a flood proof door, nor for the moving of the air bricks. As
Ive said generally the insurer will pay for any damage caused by the flood but not any work
required to prevent future flooding. Thats generally regarded as property maintenance. To
take the simple example of a leaking pipe  the policyholder has to pay for the replacement
or repair of the pipe and the insurer will pay for the damage caused by the leak. So it applies
to the preventative work here  Ms A would be required to pay for that herself and it wouldnt
be covered under the terms of the policy.
Fairmead also wouldnt pay for the following work:
Replacement of boiler housing  it said M had provided no evidence as to how this came
to be damaged in the flood.
Damage to the electric gates  these are an exclusion under the policy.
Renewal of the electrical installation.
Renewal of the jacuzzi bath.
Renewal of the CCTV installation.
With regard to the last three items, M produced a report from an electrical contractor dated
some six months after the claim. Fairmead noted that these werent the contractors who had
invoiced for the work. They didnt explain how the armoured cable supplying the electrics
could have been damaged by flood water, nor did they specify how junction boxes were
damaged. Fairmead pointed out that in light of the date of the report M couldnt have relied
on it to justify carrying out the repairs. Im not satisfied that M has produced sufficient
evidence to justify the repairs to those items.
As to the rest of the work, Fairmead reviewed Ms costs according to reasonable
contractors rates. It was also allowed as per the policy term Ive referred to, to factor in any
discount it would have received from its supplier. This resulted in its assessing of a
substantially lower payment than claimed by M (£21,774 against £98,665 claimed). It offered
around £15,500 in December 2020. But through its solicitors it asked for more information
regarding the boiler and the cost of the work. Specifically this was:
Purchase orders for materials confirming who purchased the materials utilised for the
reinstatement works, including quantities and specifications.
Serial numbers for any building items/equipment purchased from 
suppliers/manufacturers.
Certificates of completion for any works directly from the subcontractors utilised.
Documentary evidence of the damage sustained to items not included in the claim
settlement payment.
Documentary evidence that the above damage was caused by the ingress of flood
waters.
M said it couldnt supply the information saying it was an unreasonable request and thatcontractors shouldnt be required to provide personal data. My view is that the request
relates to actual works carried out and items bought for which Ms A was billed. I wouldnt
expect this to include any personal data, so equipment owned and used by contractors
would not come within this. That said, given the vast difference between the costs claimed
and those assessed by Fairmead I think it was reasonable for it to ask for further
documentary evidence and I dont think it was too onerous to expect contractors to supply
documentary evidence of what they had expended on the items claimed.
The only further evidence supplied by M was the specification of the model the boiler and
Fairmead assessed that it was possible that this particular boiler was close enough to the
floor to have been affected by the floods.
Fairmead offered £32,374 which included VAT, the cost of a new boiler, a replacement stair
carpet, and a disturbance allowance of £840 in May 2021. It subsequently paid this to Ms As
account. M then produced a report by a surveyor setting out costs of £71,149. The report
itself didnt say who was the author of the report. However Fairmead in conjunction with its
solicitors assessed that it involved little to no validation of the work required, lacked the detail
it would expect to see in a proper quantity survey (QS) report and included elements which
fell outside the policy. In particular the exclusion of costs for repairs to the gate had been
explained right from the start, as had the reasons as to why it would not pay for the flood
door or moving the air bricks. There was no explanation as to the groundworks costs, and
the claim for a replacement boiler had been wrapped up in other costs and increased. The
preliminaries, profits and overheads appeared to have been counted once at £12,954 and
then again at £18,499.
M has also supplied bills for its correspondence with Fairmead. I should clarify that Ms A
was free to appoint whoever she wanted to deal with her claim. But the administrative costs
of such a representative arent covered under the policy. Again this is something which is
universally applied in insurance claims. And this service doesnt usually require an insurer to
reimburse such costs.
Having assessed Fairmeads contractors review of the work carried out, the appropriate
rates to charge and the evidence asked for but not supplied by M, I think that Fairmead
made a reasonable payment for the building works. I dont think it was unreasonable to ask
for further evidence, and bearing in mind that Ms A had professional representation I dont
think she was singled out unfairly. This is the sort of information frequently asked for in
insurance claims where a consumer uses their own contractor. So I dont think there was
any breach of the Equality Act in Fairmead requiring the evidence before it could consider
increasing the pay-out.
M continues to assert that these were excessive demands, and that the sub-contractors 
couldnt be expected to produce personal information about each and every tool and item of 
equipment they used. Also the sub-contractors werent prepared to supply evidence of the 
discounts they got from their suppliers.
In respect of the surveyors report, it points out that the report had a heading in the name of 
the surveyors firm, and was drawn up by a chartered surveyor. It says the figures in the 
report clearly add up.
In respect of the information asked for by Fairmeads solicitors, I dont think this was asking 
for personal details of the contractors own tools and equipment, and I accept that M asked 
its contractors if they would be prepared to supply the other information. M having instructed 
contractors to carry out the work and then presented to Fairmead costs for payment, 
Fairmead would be expected to pay a reasonable amount, but in doing so is entitled to calculate what that is . And I accept that M has set out why it believes that the items that 
were rejected should be paid.
I gain refer to the term in the policy concerning this. As these costs werent agreed before 
carrying out the work, the onus was on Ms A to show that she had incurred those costs and 
that they were reasonable. And, whilst accepting that the evidence was hard to produce 
some time after the event I go back to what would be expected of a policyholder, in terms of 
proving their claim. I note M refers again to the electrical report which it says Fairmead 
asked for, but then rejected. In respect of the gates it says these were damaged because the 
internal electrics were damaged in the flood and mentions the rise in groundwater as well as 
the flooding from the overflowing culvert. I note its points, but I dont think that Fairmead was 
unreasonable in rejecting payment for these. I would observe that a rise in groundwater is 
excluded under the policy. 
As regards the surveyors report M obtained, I set out Fairmeads response to this, and its 
reasons for standing by its own calculations of the costs of repair. I would observe that the 
report, as would normally be the case, isnt personally signed by a surveyor. From 
Fairmeads solicitors research I accept that the firm is run by a chartered surveyor. Having 
looked at the report again, I dont think that Fairmead made a valid point about preliminaries, 
profits and overheads having two different figures but I stand by my view that Fairmead has 
justified its own assessment of the costs and has paid a reasonable sum in that respect.
contents
In my provisional findings I said:
In respect of the contents, Fairmead hasnt to date made a pay-out. Ms A made a claim for
£12,400. She was asked to supply a schedule of the items damaged with evidence of their
replacement costs. It said that the photos supplied didnt show any damage. Fairmead also
asked for schedules estimating the total value of the contents. M said that Ms A didnt ned to
supply this. Fairmead was also refused permission to view the contents as a whole including
the undamaged contents. And M refused to allow it to inspect the contents in storage. Ive
also noted that in the early days of the claim, despite liability not yet being accepted
Fairmead said it would appoint its disaster recovery specialists. However Ms A didnt want
those specialists as they contacted her without her permission. They could have recovered
and assessed the damaged contents, though I appreciate that M did a lot of recovery of
contents.
I go back to what would normally happen in a claim involving damage to contents. Where
there is a large claim, as here, it would be normal for the loss adjusters to assess the value
at risk (VAR). This would be so that they could assess whether the value of the contents
insured is sufficient. If its not then the value of the claim could be reduced. This wasnt
something Ms A was singled out for  its generally what happens in large claims.
Similarly it is for the policyholder to show that they have a claim. So it was reasonable to ask
Ms A for further details of her losses. If she is prepared to provide the further evidence asked
for then Fairmead should consider it.
Again as this is something any policyholder in Ms As position would be asked for then I
dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably nor that they singled Ms A out.
I understand that Ms A is unhappy with the approach taken, but I cant add anything to what 
Ive said. Its still open to Ms A to produce an itemised list of her contents and the costs 
claimed. The policy clearly covers contents and it does appear likely that some were 
damaged in the flood. M refers to another visit to the property when it says the loss adjuster was abusive and 
inappropriately attempted to take photos of Ms A, which was reported to the police. I assume 
this was the visit in August 2021  Ive seen the report, and it refers to Ms representative 
being aggressive when asked questions. The report includes photos of some contents and 
parts of the building. However I cant comment on the allegations by either side but if the 
matters been reported to the police, I think it should be left up to the police to decide want 
action to take. 
further floods
In my provisional findings I said:
I understand that there were further floods. M asserted that these caused further damage to
the property. Fairmeads solicitors assessment of those further floods was:
15/11/20 No photographs of ingress of water to the property, but photographs provided 
of the grounds to the property.
27/12/20 Photographs provided showing water underneath the floor of the ground floor
office.
14/01/21 Photographs provided showing water underneath the floor of the ground floor
office.
16/01/21 No evidence of ingress of water provided; photographs showing standing water 
in the neighbouring area.
So it said that Ms A hadnt supplied enough evidence to show any such further damage. It
also pointed out that the photos showed water coming up from below the floor and that there
was an exclusion in the policy for Loss or damage caused by underground water. As the
floods didnt appear to be caused by the same overflowing culvert as in the first claim, I think
it was reasonable for Fairmead to apply the exclusion and/or say there was no evidence of
the inside of the property being affected. Again if M or Ms A are able to supply further
evidence to show there is damage and that its covered by the policy, then I would expect
Fairmead to consider it.
M believes it has supplied irrefutable evidence of loss. It invited Fairmead to attend the 
property with Ms As surveyor with ground radar, but it has declined to do so. Again I dont 
think that its for Fairmead to show that an exclusion doesnt apply, that is something the 
policyholder has to do. Again this is something that applies to all insurance claims.
legal proceedings
In my provisional findings I said:
M has questioned why, if Fairmead appointed solicitors to pursue the local authority, it didnt
follow this through and take proceedings against the local authority requiring it to carry out
flood prevention work.
Fairmead appointed solicitors to establish whether the local authority may have had some
liability to contribute towards Ms As claim. Again that is a normal part of a claim like this. But
its a matter for the insurer whether it pursues this and if it assesses there is no prospect of
success it can decide not to pursue the matter further. And again similar to my other
reflections on this point this isnt singling Ms A out  its what happens in any case like thiswhere theres a possibility of pursuing a third party. It isnt a part of the policy to require the
local authority to carry out flood prevention work. Ive noted that Ms A is now pursuing such
a claim through her legal expenses insurance which I think is the right approach to take.
M has advised that it has been agreed by Ms As legal team that there is a valid claim which 
is currently being pursued. But it says that as Fairmead owed a duty of care to Ms A, it 
should have pursued this against the local authority.
Fairmead has to comply with the terms of the policy, and in dealing with the claim, has a 
duty of care. But it doesnt have to carry out work which is outside the terms of the policy, 
especially where its covered by the legal expenses part of the policy. Again thats something 
that applies to any policyholder  Ms A isnt being singled out.
compensation
In my provisional findings I said:
I think Ms A should be paid compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her
by the delays in agreeing liability. I do have to take into account that this claim started just
about the time that Covid lockdown started which caused difficulties both for Ms A and for
Fairmead and its contractors. Whilst I dont think Fairmead was responsible for the delays in
getting the ID check carried out, I think that Ms A would have been distressed to find out
that the claim was to be delayed further when Fairmead had been corresponding with her for
a couple of months on the unregistered email address. I also think Ms A would have been
distressed at the delay in paying the cash settlement to her.
Taking those matters into account, I think that the right award of compensation to make is
£500  this is in addition to the £100 already paid.
Additionally I think that Fairmead had all the information it needed to make a pay-out to Ms A
in December 2020. I understand that it continued to correspond with M about the evidence it
needed but I think the amount it finally paid to Ms A in June 2021 should have been paid in
December 2021. But I also have to take into account the delays in accepting liability due to
the issue of the build date. I think this added a further two months to the claim. Ive further
noted that, to stop interest running Fairmead could have made an interim payment to Ms A
in December 2020. So Fairmead should pay 8% simple interest on the whole settlement, of
£32,374.42 from a date two months before it put the proposed settlement to Ms A in
December 2020, until the date it made the final payment.
I understand that M, and Ms A disagree, and say that the compensation award should be far 
greater, and include an amount for inflation.
I have made an award following my detailed assessment of the claim, it is in line with other 
awards made by this service, and Im satisfied that the award of compensation is 
appropriate. The award of interest does take account of inflation.
in conclusion
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive also taken account of the fact that Ms A may have had a 
disability in terms of her verbal impairment and having to self-isolate, but I dont think that 
Fairmead breached the Equality Act and that it took appropriate account of that disability.
Generally, apart from where Ive said otherwise, Im satisfied by my provisional findings, and 
those findings are now final and form part of this final decisionPutting things right
Fairmead should pay a further £500 compensation.
It should pay 8% simple interest* on the whole settlement, of £32,374.42 from a date two
months before it put the proposed settlement to Ms A in December 2020 until the date it
made the final payment.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Fairmead to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
to provide the remedy set out under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman