DRN-4021307
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim on their caravan 
insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy about the time it took Ageas to respond to their 
complaint.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs D were holidaying in their caravan. Unfortunately, after a day 
out, they returned to the caravan to find the windscreen cracked. In September 2022, Mr D 
contacted Ageas to claim on his policy. Mr D said the damage mightve been caused by a 
stone from a grass cutter. 
Ageas declined the claim, as Mr and Mrs Ds policy didnt include cover for accidental 
damage, unless towing. Mr D responded, saying he was guessing at the cause of damage  
as hed not witnessed the event. He said it couldve been done whilst towing or done 
maliciously.
Ageas maintained its position, saying that its decision was based on Mr Ds information and 
that accidental damage, in the circumstances initially described, wasnt covered under the 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs D came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked into things 
for them, but didnt uphold their complaint. He said Ageas hadnt acted unfairly in declining 
the claim, as Mr and Mrs D hadnt been able to confirm how the damage occurred. Our 
investigator also explained that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so he wasnt 
able to look at that aspect of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy, so their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this wont be the answer Mr and 
Mrs D were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the cover it provides. Accidental damage is defined 
as an unintentional, one off incident that causes unexpected and non-deliberate damage. 
The policy covers accidental damage during towing as standard. But other accidental 
damage to the awning, caravan, contents and equipment is an additional cover available 
under the policy. Mr and Mrs D did not have this additional extended accidental damage 
cover on their policy. 
Ive looked at the email Mr D sent Ageas to notify them of his desire to claim on the policy. 
He said:
I recently been on holiday & when I returned from a day out I have noticed a crack in 
the front window of my caravan. I can only assume it was done by a stone from a 
grass cutter as it wasnt there previously before I went out that day and returned to 
the site.
When making an insurance claim, the onus is on the policy holder to show that the damage 
sustained is as a result of an event covered under the policy. From Mr Ds initial description, 
the damage couldnt have been caused whilst towing, leading to Ageas declining the claim. I 
appreciate Mr D went on to say he didnt know whatd happened and there were other 
potential causes. But ultimately, Mr and Mrs D were unable to confirm how and when the 
damage occurred. For Ageas to pay out on the claim, it would need to be satisfied the event 
claimed for was covered under the policy. And that wasnt the case here. So I dont think 
Ageas treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly in declining their claim.
Finally, Im aware Mr and Mrs D are also unhappy about Ageas response to their complaint. 
From the correspondence, I can see that Ageas response wasnt within the timescales set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. Where a business doesnt meet the timescales, a 
consumer is able to bring their complaint straight to the Financial Ombudsman Service, as 
indeed Mr and Mrs D did. But as our investigator explained, how a business handles a 
complaint isnt an activity we can consider. So this isnt something I can comment on any 
further.
I appreciate this is unwelcome news for Mr and Mrs D. But I havent identified any unfairness 
in the way Ageas has dealt with their claim. So I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman