DRN-1812134
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited settled his car insurance claim following 
an accident.
What happened
Mr A was involved in an accident. He was turning right at a four-way junction with 
temporary lights. He proceeded on a green light, but the lights werent working in their usual 
sequence and the cars on the road he was turning into also had a green light. He collided 
with a motorbike and both vehicles were damaged.
Mr A logged a claim with esure and provided video evidence of the incorrect light 
sequence. esure settled the claim on the basis Mr A was 100% liable for the accident. Mr A 
didnt think this was fair. He felt the blame lay with the company responsible for the faulty 
lights and thought esure should pursue that company for costs - particularly given hed paid 
extra for motor legal protection cover. So, he complained, but esure didnt uphold this.
esure said that under the policy terms it was allowed to settle the claim how it 
wanted providing this was based on the evidence. It said it had sought advice from in-house 
lawyers who said that they were unlikely to be able to successfully defend the claim.
esure later told Mr A that it accepted liability because he was turning right and had a 
greater duty of care. It said Mr A had a responsibility to make sure it was safe to proceed 
regardless of whether the light was green. esure also said motor legal protection couldnt be 
used for disputing liability.
So, Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He told us esure had given him 
conflicting information about his claim. He said he was originally told he wasn't at fault, but 
this later changed. He also said esure told him it had relied on the highway code when 
settling his claim but changed this when he asked what section.
Our investigator partially upheld his complaint. They found esure had acted reasonably 
in settling his claim but suggested it pay Mr A £100 compensation for giving him 
conflicting information. Both esure and Mr A disagreed, so the matters been passed to me 
to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than 
the investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with esure and Mr A so both had 
the opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional 
findings were:
What I provisionally decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A feels the company responsible for the faulty lights is to 
blame here. But my job isnt to decide whos at fault, but to look at whether esure has acted reasonably in relation to this claim. And although this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr A, I think esure has  Ill explain why.
According to the policy summary, esure had the right to settle the claim. But I would expect 
it to reach a decision based on the relevant facts and evidence.
I can see esure originally told Mr A it would settle the claim without having reviewed 
the evidence he provided. And this clearly isn't fair. But I've noted that when he brought this 
to its attention, esure apologised and reviewed the decision in light of this. So, I'm satisfied 
it took account of the relevant evidence.
Mr A has told us the faulty lights are ultimately responsible. But esure has made the 
point that Mr A still had a duty of care here regardless of whether the light was green. And I 
think this is a fair point to make, as all drivers have a responsibility to take reasonable care.
But the key reason that esure settled the claim is because it felt Mr A had a greater duty 
of care because he was turning right. I can see that in reaching this decision, esure 
sought advice from its internal legal team and asked about the possibility of a partial 
settlement. But it was advised it had little chance of success in defending this claim. And I've 
seen no evidence to suggest otherwise here.
Given this, I'm satisfied esure took appropriate steps to consider the options available 
and this evidence suggests the settlement was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A felt esure should have pursued the business responsible for the lights, 
particularly given he'd paid for legal protection cover. But having reviewed Mr A's legal 
expenses cover, I'm satisfied this doesn't apply in these particular circumstances. Whilst 
there are a number of different things that are insured, the one most appropriate to Mr A's 
circumstances relates to recovering losses not covered by the car insurance policy. But this 
can only be done when another party is partially or wholly at fault. But Mr A was found to be 
entirely at fault here. And for the reasons I've given above, I don't think this was 
unreasonable. So, I'm satisfied esure's decision not to pursue the business responsible for 
the lights was reasonable.
Ive then looked at Mr As concerns about conflicting information. Mr A said esure initially 
told him he was not at fault. But then esure said he was at fault because of the highway 
code. Mr A was also concerned that when he asked what part of the highway code, esure 
emailed and changed what it told him - saying he was at fault because he had a greater duty 
of care.
esure said that when Mr A first reported the incident, it advised him that based on 
the information given, it wasn't placing anyone at fault until it had investigated. But when Mr 
A provided further detail about the incident in a later call, it then said it would likely be a 
fault claim. This is largely in line with what Mr A said happened, but Mr A thought esure had 
been more definite. I think its unlikely an insurer would have provided a definite decision on 
a claim in the early stages without the relevant evidence. Given this, I think esure gave Mr 
A probable outcomes based on the information available at the time. And whilst I appreciate 
its assessment changed, I dont think this is unreasonable as it was based on 
further information. So, I dont think esure did anything wrong here.
esure has also agreed it made reference to the highway code when trying to explain 
its decision to Mr A. The person who spoke with Mr A said theyd explained theres still a 
duty to proceed with caution even if the light is green. The highway code notes GREEN 
means you may go on if the way is clear. Take special care if you intend to turn left or right 
and give way to pedestrians who are crossing. Im satisfied this is relevant to Mr As claim and so it was appropriate for esure to refer to this. And having reviewed esures later email 
to Mr A where it refers to a greater duty of care, I dont think it changed its reasoning as Mr A 
has suggested. The email states not every circumstance can be covered under the 
highway code, but as you were turning right you have a higher duty of care to make sure 
your path is clear. This is a clear reference to the same rationale and the highway code but 
noting that the code doesn't cover the exact circumstances Mr A was faced with. So, 
although it will come as a disappointment to Mr A, I dont think esure provided conflicting 
information here and I dont think it did anything wrong.
Response to my provisional findings
esure didnt have anything else to add. Mr A told our investigator he disagreed. Mr A said he 
did look when he turned right but by the time he did, it was too late - the motorcycle came 
out of nowhere. Mr A noted the highway code doesnt make him liable for the accident. 
So, Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also re-considered my provisional 
findings.
I acknowledge that Mr A says he did look when turning right. And as Ive said above, I fully 
appreciate why he doesnt think he was at fault here. But as outlined in my provisional 
findings, its not my job to decide whos at fault. And Im satisfied esure didnt base their 
decision on whether Mr A looked when turning right, but on the greater duty of care he had 
because he was turning right. 
Its clear the highway code doesnt cover the specific scenario Mr A unfortunately found 
himself in. But the highway code does place responsibility on any driver turning right to take 
special care. And so, I dont think its unreasonable for esure to take this into consideration 
when considering the claim. As explained above, Im satisfied esure sought legal advice and 
considered other options. Mr A hasnt provided any evidence which persuades me that esure 
did have a reasonable chance of defending his claim. Given this, Im not persuaded esure 
have done anything wrong here. 
Overall, Ive not seen any further evidence that leads me to change my findings.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman