DRN-3860322
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy TSB Bank plc didnt leave enough funds in their bank account to 
cover a payment for fuel, during the process of switching to another bank.  
What happened
In May 2022 Mr and Mrs L initiated a switch to a new bank. TSB was contacted on 25 May 
2022 by their new bank to start the process of switching over their payments and transferring 
the funds to their new account. The switch completed on 6 June 2022, with TSB allocating 
an amount to cover the pending transactions showing, with the remaining balance sent to 
the new bank.
Around the time the switch completed, either Mr or Mrs L paid for fuel at a self-service petrol 
pump using one of their TSB debit cards. The pay at pump service at that point worked by 
taking a pre-authorisation for £1 from a customers account, to confirm their card was valid, 
before they began to fill up. The exact cost of the fuel would then appear on the customer's 
account typically a day or two after the transaction. This particular petrol transaction didnt 
debit Mr and Mrs Ls account until after the switch had completed. As there werent any 
funds to cover it, the account went overdrawn and didnt close. 
Mr and Mrs L tried to make a payment to cover the overdrawn balance from their new 
account, but the redirect in place meant those attempts bounced back. The new bank told  
Mr and Mrs L the best way to clear the amount would be by card, but they didnt think they 
should have to call TSB  as the Current Account Switch Guarantee was meant to ensure 
the process was hassle free. Eventually the balance was settled using a faster payment, 
without incurring any charges on their TSB account, and a complaint was raised about the 
inconvenience caused. 
In its final response TSB said it didnt think it had made a mistake, as the retailer had only 
pre-authorised £1 prior to the switch  so thats the amount it held back to cover the 
transaction. It also pointed to the terms of the switch, which stated any payments using the 
old card made around the date of the switch would need to be covered separately if they 
werent included. Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy with TSBs answer, so the complaint was 
referred to our service for review. 
An investigator here didnt think TSB were at fault. In his view, TSB couldnt have known the 
amount the retailer would debit before it was taken  by which time the switch had already 
completed. Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment, and I can understand their frustration  as the Current Account Switch 
Guarantee does advertise that changing banks using the service should be hassle free. But 
Ive had to decide whether TSB was at fault for what happened  and I dont consider it was. 
While Ive used information from Mr and Mrs Ls new bank to help piece together the 
timeline, this decision solely concerns TSBs responsibility in the matter. 
The terms of the Switch Guarantee set out that TSB would retain enough funds to cover 
transactions made before the switch date which were still in the process of clearing, as well 
as any transactions already authorised but not yet paid. If something went wrong then 
according to the Guarantee primary responsibility for sorting it lay with the new bank (as far 
as it was possible for the new bank to correct). The terms also stated the customer would be 
liable for any outstanding debt (with the old bank) remaining after the switch date.
The transaction in question, which caused the account to go overdrawn and prevented it 
from closing, was made on or just before the switch date  but debited after. Due to how pay 
at pump transactions worked at the time, only £1 was pre-authorised by the retailer  so 
thats the amount TSB held back to cover it. The transaction wasnt in the process of clearing 
on the switch date, it debited the following day. TSB also wasnt aware of the total amount, 
or that there would be a further amount on top of what was pre-authorised, until it debited. It 
could only reserve what it had been asked to by the retailer  and had to honour the 
payment once received, as the fuel had been taken. So, I dont think TSB fell short on any of 
its responsibilities under the Switch Guarantee terms. 
It will be of little comfort to Mr and Mrs L, but the way this type of fuel transaction works has 
now changed (or will shortly) at most petrol stations. Thats in part due to the issues caused 
by the old process, including what happened here. Now when you insert or tap your card at 
a self-service pump, your bank will temporarily reserve an amount (up to £120) from your 
available balance while you fill up. If your account balance is below £120, for example 
theres £50 left, this would be communicated back to the fuel pump by your bank  enabling 
a maximum of that amount of fuel to be dispensed. Once youve finished filling up, the total 
is then meant to be updated with your bank in real time  who charge the actual amount 
spent, usually pretty instantaneously. The remainder of any reserved funds are then also 
released back to your available balance.
Unfortunately, thats not what happened in this case  and the timing of the transaction 
meant the surplus funds had already been transferred to the new bank by the time it hit the 
account. As a result, TSB notified Mr and Mrs L of the outstanding amount, in line with the 
Switch Guarantee terms. It also acted promptly to close the account once payment was 
received. So, overall, Im not persuaded TSB could have done anything to avoid what 
happened here  or that it ought to have acted differently once the transaction was debited. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman