DRN-4162477
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Skrill Limited allowed him to make multiple gambling transactions 
and that it failed to identify him as a vulnerable person with a gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr O opened his Skrill account in March 2011 and began making regular payments to online 
gambling sites. He says he later found out that online gambling was illegal in Germany, 
where he lives. As such, Skrill shouldnt have allowed the transactions to go ahead. So, he 
would like Skrill to reimburse him €79,736.44 for the transactions he carried out between 
2012 to 2016, plus 8% interest. 
Skrill didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that, as a payment processor, it was not obliged 
to monitor its customers activities to detect gambling vulnerability. It also said that it 
complied with the laws of the countries it operated in and that the terms of the account made 
it clear that it was up to its customers to ensure they comply with the laws in their country of 
residence.
Skrill said that it only became aware of Mr Os gambling problems when he made the 
complaint in 2022. In response, it said it had taken steps to block him from opening a new 
account using his email address.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Firstly, she said that only a court, and 
preferably a German court, could rule on whether what Skrill was doing was illegal. 
Secondly, she said that Skrill had acted to close Mr Os account when it found out about his 
gambling addiction, which was reasonable. Mr O disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Ombudsman was established to be a quick and informal service. This doesnt mean we 
apply any less rigour or care in reaching our decisions. However, it does mean that we might 
not address each and every point in the way that Mr O might wish. 
Mr O has provided a great deal of information in support of his complaint. Although I may not 
refer directly to it, I can assure Mr O that I have read and considered everything that he has 
sent in.
Mr O has explained that online gambling was prohibited in Germany. So he thinks that Skrill 
should have declined the payments because its systems should have recognised that he 
lived in Germany and that he was making payments to betting sites, which was an illegal 
activity. So, even if Skrill wasnt obliged to monitor accounts to identify gambling addition, it 
should still have been automatically stopping illegal transactions. And because it didnt, it 
has colluded in illegal actions and fraud.
Mr O has set out why he thinks Skrill has contravened both English and German law. It is not 
for this service to make a finding on whether its activities were illegal or not, only a court can 
do that. So, although I know it will be very disappointing for Mr O, I am unable to consider 
this part of his complaint any further.
But I have looked at whether Skrill should have identified that Mr O was using his account to 
gamble in a country where gambling was heavily restricted.
Skrill has said that its the responsibility of the consumer to ensure theyre accessing Skrills 
services for legitimate and legal purposes in their countries of residence and that its 
customers agree to this as part of the terms and conditions when opening an account. It 
therefore admits no liability for the fact that Mr O was able to access and pay for online 
gambling via his Skrill account.
A large proportion of Skrills customers engage in gambling and it could be argued that it 
should therefore do more to monitor and prevent online betting in territories where it is 
restricted. But, whilst Skrill probably could do more, Im unable to conclude that Skrill had to 
do that. And as mentioned above, Im unable to make a finding that, by not doing so, it was 
breaking the law.
Mr O thinks the transactions he made are akin to authorised push payments, where you are 
tricked into making a payment to a scammer. But in those situations the scammer is 
impersonating a legitimate merchant and the consumer doesnt receive the goods or 
services they have paid for.
The gambling sites Mr O was making payments to were legitimate merchants, its just that 
Germany restricted their use by its residents. And Mr O did receive the services he paid for 
as he was able to gamble and place the bets he wanted to. 
Mr O says that merchants who knowingly take bets from consumers in jurisdictions where 
they are not licensed are facilitating illegal betting. But in this decision I am only looking at 
the actions of Skrill and not the merchants.
On balance, Im not persuaded that there was anything about the transactions that meant 
Skrills detection systems should have flagged them up or blocked the payments as 
potentially fraudulent.
Mr O has acknowledged that Skrill was not legally obliged to monitor accounts to prevent 
losses due to addition. But he says it should have been clear from the pattern of his 
payments that he was likely to be suffering financial hardship as the result of a gambling 
problem, particularly when he started to make larger individual transactions. 
Our investigator has said that Skrill closed Mr Os account after finding out about his 
problems, which is incorrect. It was Mr O who closed the account himself.
The question I need to consider is whether or not Skrill did enough to try to stop consumers, 
and in particular vulnerable people with gambling addictions, from using its services. This is 
particularly important as Skrill has previously confirmed that the majority of its consumers 
use its services to access online gambling and so I would expect Skrill to have considered 
that some of its customers would be compulsive gamblers and try to take steps to mitigate 
any harm they might experience using its services.
Looking at Mr Os statements it is very clear that he was using his Skrill account to gamble. 
The transactions are easily identifiable as the gambling merchant is clearly named as the acquirer receiving the funds from Mr Os account. Likewise, any payments in, as the result of 
bets won, are also easily identifiable as coming from gambling merchants. 
But I also need to consider whether there was any reason why Skrill should have reviewed 
Mr Os transactions. Its systems werent automatically flagging gambling merchants. So, 
something would have needed to happen to prompt Skrill to manually review the account, 
such as something that might pose it a financial risk, like disputed transactions or potentially 
fraudulent transactions. Also, it could have been prompted by anything that Mr O told it 
directly about how the gambling was affecting him.
Although Mr O was clearly gambling, Skrill didnt have any information to suggest that he 
was experiencing financial problems as a result. There was nothing that happened that 
might have alerted it to the issue. Theres no evidence that Mr O told them about having a 
gambling addiction. He didnt give this as a reason when he closed the account. So overall, 
Im unable to conclude that Skrill ought to have been aware that Mr O was vulnerable or that 
it is at fault for failing to identify that he might be experiencing financial difficulties as a result 
of his gambling.
I do appreciate that Mr O has gone through a very difficult time. Id like to thank him for the 
open and honest way he has provided his personal information to us, which cant have been 
easy. However, whilst I know it will be disappointing for him, I am unable to uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman