DRN-3279831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the decision Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited has made in respect of a claim made under their pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have explained that their dog, who Ill call D, had an accident whilst out for a 
walk in the park. Ds leg was unfortunately broken during this accident, and his regular vet 
referred him to a referal vet for treatment.
D was operated on, on 30 May 2021. Mr and Mrs H have explained that the operation went 
well, and D was kept at the vetinary surgery for around 48 hours post operation, to make 
sure he was ok following the procedure. On 1 June 2021, it was possible for D to be 
discharged. 
However, Mr and Mrs H asked for the referal vet to keep D with it for a while. This wasnt for 
any health reason  but instead because they were going away, and didnt feel it would be 
fair to leave family members to look after D in the meantime. So, D was kept in at the vets, 
but just for non-health related boarding.
Around three days into D boarding Mr and Mrs H have explained that D choked on some 
food whilst wearing a collar post operation. And then was diagnosed with aspiration 
pneumonia -which needed treatment.
After the above, Mr and Mrs H made a claim for vet fees  both for the leg operation and for 
treating the aspiration pnuemonia. They said these were separate, unlinked incidents. 
Red Sands agreed to provide settlement to Mr and Mrs H for the surgery, up to the policy 
limit. But it said it wasnt able to provide any settlement for the vet fees in relation to the 
pnuemonia. Red Sands felt the pneumonia was linked to the surgery D had before. And so 
both problems were due to the same condition. It said there was a limit on the policy for 
each condition  which was £1,000  and this had already been exhausted.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said that vet fees for the leg surgery, and the vet fees for 
the aspiration pnemonia were two separate condition and claims. And because they were 
separate conditions, the limits on their policy had not been exhaused. So, they raised a 
complaint about Red Sands position.
Red Sands reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and confimed that its position hadnt 
changed. So. Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
considered that Red Sands had acted in line with the policy in dealing with the fees for the 
surgey and the pneumonia in one. He said it was reasonable that the insurer had linked the 
two  given the information provided didnt evidence Mr and Mrs Hs position that the two 
things werent linked.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. In summary they said;
D was fine after his surgery, and it was possible for him to be discharged. He was 
only at the vets for non-health related boarding services since 1 June 2021
That if D had been taken home, and then the second issue had happened, they 
wouldnt be in this position now. Mr and Mrs H felt that the matter would then be dealt 
with as a second condition, and therefore received a further settlement under the 
policy
The information in the referal vets notes, dated 24 June 2021, were misleading and 
inaccurate
They felt it was reasonable to assume the two problems (the surgery and the 
pneumonia) werent linked, unless there was firm evidence of this being the case.
The referal vet hadnt been able to say in writing that the two things werent linked  
as they couldnt say this 100%. But that didnt mean they werent separate issues.
Because Mr and Mrs H disagreed, this complaint has been refered to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr and Mrs H 
feel strongly about the matter  and are likely to be dissapointed with this outcome. And I 
understand why. However, Im satisfied that Red Sands has acted reasonably in dealing with 
the matter as one condition. Ive explained why below.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr and Mrs H feel Red Sands hasnt acted in line with 
this. So, Ive considered their concerns. And based on what Ive seen I dont think Red 
Sands has done anything wrong in declining to cover the vet fees relating to the aspiration 
pneumonia.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim, or element of it, was declined fairly and 
reasonably is the terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both 
parties agreed to when the cover was purchased.
From reviewing Mr and Mrs Hs policy Im aware it provides cover for vet fees, up to the 
benefit amount specified in the policy schedule. And Mr and Mrs Hs policy schedule shows 
that the policy had an annual condition limit of £1,000.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy also defines what a condition is. It says;
Condition means any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any 
manifestation of an illness having the same diagnositic classification or resulting from the 
same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of your pets body 
affected.Given the above, Im aware that if Ds surgey and aspiration pnuemonia were part of the 
same condition, as per the above definition, the maximum limit under the policy would be 
£1,000. And Red Sands wouldnt need to pay above the condition limit in respect of the 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs H has said the two situation werent related, and so shouldnt be considered as 
one condition, but two. So, Ive carefully considered this.
To do so, Ive considered the vetrinary notes at the time, as well as commuications between 
Mr and Mrs H and the vet following the incidents. And having done so, Im satisfied Red 
Sands has acted fairly by noting that the two incidents are linked, and would be considered 
as the same condition. The information provided by both parties suggests a clear link 
between the two issues  and therefore that the injury here is as a result of the same 
disease process, as per the definition contained within the policy.
I say this because the evidence suggests that its most likely the problem with reguritation, 
and aspiration pnuemonia occurred as a result of post surgery complications  this being the 
increased risk of regurgitiation after surgery, wearing of the collar, the drugs D was taking, 
and the risks being higher in his particular breed. 
The referal vet provided a report to Ds usual vet, on 24 June 2021. And this explained that 
D recovered well from surgery, but developed an accute onset of lethargy, pyrexia and 
dyspnoea following an episode of regurgitation. 
It also noted, in an email dated 5 August 2021 to Mr and Mrs H, that it had advised them that 
D did regurgitate during the night and advised there was a possibility that he had developed 
aspiration pnuemonia.
And in another email dated 16 July 2021, the referal vetinary practice did explain to Mr and 
Mrs H that it could not write a letter to Red Sands noting the two incidents are not linked 
because it is likely that it is all linked. The reason for this being as follows:
Any animal after a GA is at higher risk of regurg as a result of the surgery and the drugs that 
D was on also pose an increased risk of regurg. The fact that D is a French Bulldog means 
that because of his breed, he is also at a higher risk of regurg due to being a brachycephalic 
breed.
As above, because Im satisfied Red Sands has acted fairly, on the above evidence, that the 
incidents were due to the one condition I dont think its acted unreasonably in noting the 
condition limit applies in this instance, and therefore declining to settle the claim for more 
than this. So, Im not requriring it to do anything more here.
Mr and Mrs H have noted that the description by the vet is misleading, and inaccurate. And I 
understand they are unhappy with this. But this service is considering whether Red Sands 
has done anything wrong, not the vets. And, it is factual that D had surgery, and five days 
after it suffered regurgitation and aspiration pneumonia. So considering that Red Sands has 
relied on factual information gathered from those who treated D, as well as expert opinion 
from those that treated D that say the two problems were linked, I dont think it acted 
unreasonably in making the decision it did.
Mr and Mrs H have raised on a number of occassions that D was only at the vets after 1 
June 2021, because they were away. Otherwise, D could have been discharged. I should 
highlight that Im not disputing that Mr and Mrs H could have taken D home on 1 June 2021, 
before D became poorly. But, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Hs comment that if D had been taken home, rather than been in boarding, the matter would have been considered as two 
conditions.
It doesnt matter whether the second incident happened whilst D was boarding. Or if it had 
instead happened at home. Im satisfied the above information evidences that the two 
incidents were linked, and fall under the definition of condition under the policy. So, either 
way, Red Sands decision that the incidents were one condition, and the benefit limit was 
applicable in this case is fair. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman