DRN-2823391
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund to him the £221.40 that he had to pay for a 
repair to his car and the £414 that he paid for a warranty. 
What happened
Mr K used his Lloyds Bank credit card in June 2018 to make two payments of £2,000 
towards the cost of a used car (he paid the balance of the cost by other means). He also 
used his Lloyds Bank credit card to pay for a warranty which he says cost him £414.
The car was serviced in March 2020 and Mr K paid £292.81 for the service and for a fuel 
tank gauge to be replaced. He says that £221.40 of that was for the fuel tank gauge and he 
claimed that amount under the warranty.
His warranty claim was declined because hed had the car serviced privately and not at a 
manufacturers appointed service centre as required by the warranty. Mr K then claimed a 
refund of the £221.40 that hed to pay for the repair and the £414 that hed paid for the 
warranty from Lloyds Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said that 
the supplier hadnt breached its contractual agreement with Mr K by not paying out on his 
claim because he had invalidated the warranty. Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr K 
hadnt complied with the terms of the warranty so he couldnt say that the supplier was unfair 
to invalidate the warranty. He said that he couldnt reasonably say that there had been a 
breach of contract or mis-representation by the supplier or that Lloyds Bank had done 
anything wrong in how it reviewed the claim under section 75.
Mr K has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that the dealer that repaired the car has made an expert statement about the fuel gauge not 
being a serviceable part and that it shouldnt have failed so it is a manufacturing defect. He 
says that he was not given the terms and conditions of the warranty and would have had the 
car serviced by a manufacturers appointed service centre if hed known that that was what 
was required. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr K used his Lloyds Bank credit card to pay for the warranty on his car;
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint about Lloyds Bank, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the warranty 
and that Lloyds Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ks claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
the supplier of the warranty says that the terms and conditions of the warranty 
require that the car be serviced by a manufacturers appointed service centre  
within 30 days or 2,000 miles (whichever occurs first) of each service interval 
specified by the manufacturer and say: If You wish to make a claim under this 
Warranty, please take the Protected Vehicle (if it is drivable) and [Evidence of the 
servicing history of the Protected Vehicle] to a service centre;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car was serviced privately and not by a 
manufacturers appointed service centre as required by the terms and conditions of 
the warranty;
Mr K says that he didnt receive those terms and conditions when he took out the 
warranty so didnt know about the servicing requirements  but I consider that he 
ought reasonably to have known that the warranty would include terms and 
conditions and that, if he didnt receive the relevant documentation when he took out 
the warranty, it would be reasonable to expect him to have asked the supplier of the 
warranty to provide him with that documentation;
Ive seen no evidence to show that he contacted the supplier of the warranty to ask it 
for that documentation;
Mr K says that the fuel tank gauge wasnt a serviceable part and shouldnt have 
failed so the warranty should apply even though he didnt have the car serviced in the 
way required by the warranty  but I consider that it was a requirement of the 
warranty that, to make a claim under the warranty, he had to be able to provide 
evidence showing that the car had been serviced in accordance with the 
requirements of the warranty;
Mr K wasnt able to do that and I consider that the supplier of the warranty acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions when it said that Mr K had invalidated his 
warranty so the repair wasnt covered by the warranty  and whether or not the claim 
related to a serviceable part or a manufacturing defect, the claim under the warranty 
wouldnt be successful;
Im not persuaded that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the warranty and I consider that Lloyds Bank has responded to Mr Ks 
claim fairly and reasonably; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Lloyds Bank to reimburse Mr K for the cost of the repair, to refund him the cost of the 
warranty, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman