DRN-2333406
The complaint
Mr K complains that Experian Limited recorded two County Court Judgements (CCJs) that 
belong to someone else on his credit file. 
 
What happened
In 2015 Mr Ks father received two CCJs. Mr K and his father have similar names and live at 
the same address. Experian has said that in 2017 a systems issue occurred that meant the 
CCJs for Mr Ks father appeared on his credit instead. Experian has advised that the CCJs 
records didnt contain Mr Ks fathers date of birth when registered which is why the system 
added them to the wrong credit file. 
Last year, Mr K found the CCJs on his credit file. Mr K complained and said for over five 
years Experian had given incorrect information which had serious consequences. Mr K has 
explained that he was refused credit and forced to obtain car finance on unreasonably 
expensive terms because of the information Experian recorded. Mr K has also told us he 
was rejected for a job and has suffered with depression during this period.
Experian responded to Mr Ks complaint on 18 August 2020 and upheld it. Experian 
apologised and confirmed Mr Ks details had been confused with his fathers due to a 
technical issue. Experian apologised and offered Mr K £150. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
Mr Ks complaint and increased the award from £150 to £500. Experian accepted but Mr K 
asked to appeal. He said that the settlement didnt take into account the additional costs he 
had incurred after taking out expensive finance to buy a car. Mr K asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that Experian incorrectly linked Mr Ks fathers CCJs to his credit file. 
Experian has given a technical explanation of how the error occurred and I can see it was 
due to a systems issue. But its clear Mr K had CCJs on his credit file for an extended period 
that werent his. Im pleased that, after Mr K complained, Experian took steps to correct the 
error. Mr K has forwarded a more recent copy of his credit file and the CCJs have been 
removed. As all parties broadly agree about what happened, Ive focused on how I think 
Mr Ks complaint should be resolved. 
Mr K has told us that he was declined for credit during the period his credit file was wrong. 
Mr K took out finance to purchase a car and has told us that the costs increased by around 
£75 a month over a five year period as a result of the CCJs. 
The issue I have is that whilst I understand the CCJs may have impacted Mr Ks application, 
there is nothing to show that his original application was declined or that he could have 
obtained cheaper terms. I cant fairly award costs without some evidence to verify what 
weve been told about the loss. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but I havent been persuaded to 
increase the award to take the interest he is paying into account. 
Mr K has told us about the impact of the CCJs on his mental health. I can see how having 
CCJs for someone else on your credit file would cause significant upset and stress. Mr K has 
also told us he was rejected for a job because of bad credit. Again, I appreciate that Mr K 
has been impacted by Experians error and Ive taken that into account when deciding how 
to proceed. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr K as whilst I agree that Experian made a significant error, Im 
satisfied the £500 total award it has agreed to pay is a fair way to resolve his complaint. I 
dont doubt the strength of Mr Ks feelings on this matter and I can see he has been 
seriously upset by Experians mistake. But I think an increased to £500 total compensation 
takes the impact of Experians errors on Mr K into account and is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Experian Limited to pay Mr K a total of 
£500 (less any compensation already paid).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman