DRN-4473409
Complaint
Mr O complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said that the monthly payments to this agreement were 
unaffordable given his circumstances at the time. 
Background
In August 2022, SMF provided Mr O with finance for a used car. The purchase price of the 
vehicle was £10,000.00. Mr O didnt pay a deposit and took out a hire-purchase agreement 
with SMF for the entire £10,000.00. 
The loan had interest charges of £7,285.20 and a £10 option to purchase fee. This meant 
that the total amount to be repaid of £17,285.20 was due to be repaid in 59 monthly 
instalments of £287.92 and one final repayment, of £297.92, which included the £10 option 
to purchase fee.
Mr O complained that the agreement was unaffordable and so should never have been 
provided to him. SMF didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its checks confirmed that the 
finance was affordable and so it was reasonable to lend. 
I understand that since Mr Os complaint the vehicle that was financed has been returned 
and there is likely to be a remaining balance even when it is sold.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that SMF had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Os 
complaint should be upheld. Mr O disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Os complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
SMF needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that SMF needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr O before providing it. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Os complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
SMF says Mr O was unemployed at the time it agreed to this application. But this was after 
Mr O provided details of the benefits he received each month. It says it obtained bank 
statements in order to verify this. SMF also says that it carried out credit searches on Mr O 
which had shown Mr O had had historic difficulties with credit  in the form of two settled 
defaults which took place in 2019 - and some more minor arrears on a home collected credit 
loan which had been brought up to date by the time of this application. 
In SMFs view, when the amount owing plus a reasonable amount for Mr Os living expenses 
were deducted from his monthly income the monthly payments were still affordable. On the 
other hand, Mr O says his existing commitments meant that these payments were 
unaffordable and there was no way he was going to be able to maintain them.
Ive thought about what Mr O and SMF have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks SMF carried out did go far 
enough. I dont think it was reasonable to rely on modelled living costs for Mr O, given it had 
obtained copies of bank statements to validate the funds he received each month. 
As SMF didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think SMF is more 
likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr O. Bearing in mind, 
the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would have 
expected SMF to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Os regular living 
expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
The information Mr O provided at the time does appear to show that when his committed 
regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from what he 
received each month, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
Mr O has said that his partner had payday loans. But SMF carried out a credit search on him 
and there were no active payday loans in his name at the time. Furthermore, there isnt 
significant payday loan usage in the copies of the bank statements that Mr O provided to 
SMF. 
Additionally, what I need to think about here is what did SMF need to do in order to answer 
the questions its initial checks left unanswered  in other words, what were Mr Os actual 
regular living expenses (bearing in his credit commitments were already validated by the 
credit search and there appears to be an acceptance his income was correct)?  given this 
was a first agreement and Mr O was being provided with a car. And all it needed to do was 
take a look at Mr Os living expenses.
I accept Mr Os actual circumstances at the time might have been worse than he let on  
particularly as its clear he would have wanted the vehicle at the time. Im sorry to hear about 
what he has said. But the key thing here is that when Mr Os discretionary spend is removed 
from the expenditure in the bank statements provided, he did have enough to make the 
payments to this agreement. Indeed, even though Ive not taken this into account here, Im also mindful that this vehicle was a family asset and Mr Os partner was likely to contribute to 
payments too. 
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that SMF could possibly be expected to have 
realised that this agreement might have been unaffordable for Mr O having considered the 
information he provided to support his application. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that SMFs checks 
before entering into this hire-purchase agreement with Mr O did go far enough, Im satisfied 
that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have stopped SMF from 
providing these funds, or entering into this agreement. And Im satisfied that SMF didnt act 
unfairly towards Mr O when it agreed to provide the funds.
So while Ive considered everything that Mr O has said, I dont think that SMF acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards him. And Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will 
be disappointing for Mr O. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and at 
least consider that his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Os complaint, I would like to remind SMF of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in the event that an outstanding balance 
remains once it has sold the vehicle, now that it knows about Mr Os difficulty making 
payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman