DRN-4103805
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC declined to refund payments under the 
terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Mr B has explained that last year he found out they didnt need to pay for a TV license so he 
contacted Lloyds with the intention of raising a Direct Debit indemnity claim under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee. Lloyds didnt take the claim forward and Mr B complained. 
Lloyds issued a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake by declining to 
complete a Direct Debit indemnity claim. 
Mr B referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lloyds had dealt with Mr B and Miss Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr B asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr Bs told us that last year he found out he doesnt need a TV license so contacted Lloyds 
to cancel his direct debit instruction. Lloyds complied with that request but wouldnt raise a 
Direct Debit indemnity claim under the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee. Ive considered 
whether that was a reasonable response.
The Direct Debit Guarantee is set out in full online and provides details of the circumstances 
under which consumers can raise a claim. The information provided explains the guarantee 
comes into play when something goes wrong with a Direct Debit payment. The examples 
given are of the wrong amount being collected or the payment being taken on the wrong 
date. It says: 
In the rare event that an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit*, either by the 
organisation or your bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund 
from your bank or building society. 
*The Guarantee covers Direct Debit payments. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
I think its important to note that the guidance provided specifically explains that the 
guarantee cant be used to address contractual disputes with the billing organisation. Mr B 
isnt seeking a refund on the basis that the payments themselves were incorrectly 
administered in that the agreed amounts appear to have been taken on the intended dates. 
Mr B is seeking to receive refunds on the basis that he wasnt obliged to pay for a TV 
license. In my view, thats in line with a contractual dispute on the basis of whether the 
payment was legitimately due rather than whether a particular payment was processed 
correctly or not. I havent been persuaded the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee cover the 
request Mr B made. 
On the basis of the information provided in the Direct Debit Guarantee, I havent been 
persuaded that Lloyds treated Mr B unfairly when it declined Mr Bs Direct Debit indemnity 
claim. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman