DRN-3793730
The complaint
Ms B is acting on behalf of her father, Mr B, and complains that he was mis-sold a lifetime 
mortgage by Aviva Life Services UK Limited (Aviva) in 2007. She also complains that the 
interest rate for the mortgage and early repayment charge (ERC) paid upon redemption of 
the mortgage were excessive.
What happened
In November 2007, Aviva recommended a lifetime mortgage to Mr B having carried out a 
fact-find of his circumstances. The mortgage completed in January 2008 and Mr B initially 
borrowed £30,000 at a rate of 6.99% in January 2008 with a reserve fund of £31,600. Mr B 
withdrew £20,000 from the reserve fund in October 2008 at a rate of 6.99% and the 
remaining £11,600 in March 2009 at a rate of 6.84%.
Ms B complains that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold for a number of reasons: Mr B 
wanted the loan for holidays and property repair and could have sought a cheaper loan or 
alternative financial product; he could have downsized to a smaller property; he received a 
pension and financial support from Ms B so could have sought a bank loan; and sales tactics 
were used to apply undue influence to Mr B. She says that Mr B has become increasingly 
anxious and stressed in relation to the amount owed to Aviva. In order to release Mr B from 
the lifetime mortgage, Ms B has now had to borrow money to purchase his property in 
November 2021.
Ms B says that the initial borrowing amounted to £61,600, withdrawn between January 2008 
and March 2009. However, in November 2021, the final mortgage statement showed a 
redemption charge of over £166,000 and an early repayment charge (ERC) of £15,400. Ms 
B also complains about the extortionate interest charges and ERC attached to Mr Bs 
lifetime mortgage. 
Aviva says that when selling a lifetime mortgage, its adviser was required to establish the 
customers personal and financial circumstances before making an appropriate 
recommendation. Mr B had a meeting with Avivas advisor who went on to recommend the 
lifetime mortgage having regard to his circumstances. The advisor provided Mr B with a 
suitability report and personalised key facts illustration. Aviva says that these set out how 
much Mr B would owe over the years based on the interest rate and gave indications of how 
much the ERC could be (depending on changes in gilt yields) if he didnt want the lifetime 
mortgage anymore. 
Aviva says that Mr B accepted the recommendation by signing the application form in 
November 2007 and a solicitor was appointed. The offer documents were sent to Mr Bs 
solicitor and he was asked to make an appointment to discuss these. After everything was 
explained, he signed the loan agreement and the lifetime mortgage completed in January 
2008 with further withdrawals from the reserve fund in October 2008 and March 2009. In 
June 2010, Mr B asked if he could borrow more money but this was declined.
Overall, Aviva says that the recommendation to take a lifetime mortgage was suitable for Mr 
B in his circumstances and that alternative ways of raising the money were discussed. It also 
says that the documentation given to him and discussed with his solicitor clearly explained 
the terms and conditions of the loan, how compound interest was added to the amount 
borrowed and the potential charges if the loan was repaid early. Therefore, Aviva says that 
sufficient information was provided to Mr B before he entered into the agreement.
Our investigator looked into the case and was satisfied that Aviva had met its obligations to 
ensure that the lifetime mortgage was suitable for Mr B at the time of sale and that 
alternative options were explored but were unsuitable. In relation to the interest rates, the 
investigator found that it was not unreasonable of Aviva to charge the rate agreed at the time 
of sale provided this was made clear, which it had been in both the mortgage offer and 
annual statements. In relation to the ERC, the investigator found that Aviva was within its 
rights to charge this when the mortgage was redeemed and that there was no evidence that 
the conditions allowing for the ERC to be waved had been met.
Ms B on behalf of Mr B disagrees with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. 
She says that she disagrees with the figure given for her fathers monthly income and that he 
didnt want to move and says this is not true.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
When giving advice to a customer to take out an equity release mortgage, such as a lifetime 
mortgage, a business is required to take reasonable steps to ensure the product is suitable, 
having regard to whether it is appropriate to the needs and circumstances of that customer. 
It must base this on the facts disclosed by the customer and any other relevant facts about 
the customer of which it is or should be aware (MCOB 8.5A).
Ive looked at the notes of the fact-finding meeting between Aviva and Mr B on 16 November 
2007. I can see that Aviva obtained details regarding Mr Bs income and expenditure and 
what he wanted to release the equity in his property for, which was for holidays to visit his 
son abroad, to replace his car, general home improvements and an emergency fund. The 
fact-find shows that other options were considered for Mr B to generate the money he 
required; however he indicated that he did not wish to move to a smaller property and he 
had no existing savings or other assets at the time. It was indicated that Mr B was prepared 
to accept some risk of eroding the equity in the property for the benefit of having sufficient 
cash to utilise at the time, whilst aiming to retain some equity in the property. Mr B indicated 
that he had discussed equity release with those who would benefit from the property upon 
his death. 
Ive also looked at the recommendation letter which was sent to Mr B after the meeting on 
the same date. This reiterated the points set out above and Aviva recommended a lifetime 
mortgage. The letter included reference to Aviva recommending that a close friend or family 
member was present but Mr B stating this wouldnt be necessary as he was happy to attend 
the meeting alone, along with his confirmation that he had already discussed his intentions 
with his beneficiaries. The letter also referred to the fact that alternative options had been 
considered but these were discounted because Mr B had no savings or investments to 
utilise, did not wish to move to a smaller property and did not wish to consider a standard 
mortgage or loan which would involve him making a regular payment.   
Ive also looked at Mr Bs application form for the lifetime mortgage dated 14 November 
2007. This indicated that he had discussed his plans with family/ beneficiaries. Mr B also 
signed a document confirming that, although Aviva recommended that a relative or friend accompany him during the meeting with the advisor, he had decided not to as he had 
discussed the lifetime mortgage with his family and they did not feel the need to attend. 
I understand that Mr Bs recollection of the meeting between himself and the advisor differs 
from what is set out in the fact-find document. And the fact that Ms B says that Mr Bs 
income was greater than that which is set out in the fact-find and says that it was not true 
that he didnt want to move. However, I can only decide the case on the evidence available. 
The fact-find was contemporaneous with the time of sale and I also note that the letter sent 
to Mr B on the same day set out what he had said about his circumstances, and theres 
nothing to suggest that he disagreed with any of the information detailed at that time. By 
proceeding with the application, Mr B confirmed the information given about his personal 
circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. And I bear in mind 
that Mr Bs recollection is of events that happened 15 years ago, and memory can be 
unreliable especially over such a long period  which means I have to give weight to the 
documents from the time. 
Ive also considered the surrounding evidence and Mr Bs conduct since the sale. I can see 
that, after Mr B withdrew the initial amount of £30,000, he went on to ask for the remainder 
of the reserve fund in two separate transactions over the following 14 months. So it appears 
that Mr B did want the cash and went on to use this over the years. Ive also considered the 
fact that the fact-find indicates that Mr B didnt want to downsize, although Ms B disputes 
that this was the case. I note that Mr B has remained in the property since the equity was 
released and hasnt downsized despite his concerns about the increasing amount owed, and 
that Ms B has now purchased the property so that Mr B can remain there without the lifetime 
mortgage. So on balance I am satisfied that this supports the fact that the fact-find is an 
accurate reflection of what was discussed at the time and was the basis upon which Aviva 
made its recommendation.
I am satisfied that other ways of raising the money were discussed. Although Ms B now says 
that Mr B could have downsized or sought an alternative financial product, the fact find 
indicates that these options were all considered and rejected by Mr B at the time. Given that 
Mr B had no savings or investments, didnt want to sell his home in order to downsize and 
also didnt want to make regular payments, I dont think these alternatives would have been 
appropriate in the circumstances that he provided to Aviva. Mr B had a reasonable need to 
raise funds, and no other way of raising those funds that he wanted to take. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that an equity release was probably the only 
viable option for Mr B given his needs and circumstances recorded at the time. The lifetime 
mortgage Aviva recommended and then provided for Mr B raised the money hed asked for 
and met his needs and circumstances as they were recorded at the time.
There is also no evidence to support the presence of any undue influence upon Mr B to take 
out the mortgage. The documents show that Mr B went through a detailed questionnaire with 
Avivas adviser. There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mr B was suffering from 
any cognitive impairment, or that he was vulnerable, which prevented him from 
understanding what he was doing, or that he shouldnt have been allowed to make his own 
decisions about his own property. 
Mr B was given independent legal advice from a solicitor, which was a requirement at the 
time. Whilst I understand that Ms B says that the solicitor was chosen by Aviva, the solicitor 
was acting for Mr B and the advice should have been given with his best interests at heart. If 
Mr B feels that wasnt the case then hed need to raise that with the solicitor directly; Aviva 
isnt responsible for that. But the solicitor would not have given Mr B financial advice, or 
advised on whether the mortgage was suitable for him or in his best interests. The role of the solicitor is to make sure that Mr B understands the nature of the mortgage he is committing 
to and is doing so freely. 
In relation to the amount of interest payable, a lifetime mortgage is different to a standard 
residential mortgage as there are no monthly repayments. Its normal for interest to roll up on 
a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding 
basis. Whilst I understand that Ms B is saying other equity release products offer lower 
interest rates than Aviva, that in itself doesnt mean that Aviva has done anything wrong.
The rate charged on the initial amount borrowed was 6.99% fixed for the duration of the 
mortgage, and that is set out in the offer. The offer also provides a schedule of what would 
be owed after each year over a period of 15 years based on the initial amount borrowed at 
this interest rate (at the end of 15 years this was shown to be £82,954.99). Section 14 of the 
offer set out the additional borrowing which was available without further approval and that 
based on the interest rate of 6.99%, Mr B would owe £169,718.24 at the end of 15 years if 
he were to borrow the total amount of £61,600. Mr B did go on to borrow the additional 
amount and Im satisfied that the balance owed when the mortgage was redeemed in 2021 
wasnt out of line with what was set out in the mortgage offer. So Im satisfied the lifetime 
mortgage ran as had been illustrated  and Mr B agreed to  in 2007. So I dont think the 
mortgage was mis-sold on this basis.
Ms B has also complained that the ERC increased significantly between 2010 and 2012 and 
that this wasnt justified. 
The offer sets out what it describes as important information and states If you decide that 
you simply dont want the lifetime mortgage anymore, you can repay the amount you owe to 
the lender at any time, but the lender may make an early repayment charge if you do. 
Section 13 of this illustration will tell you if any early repayment charges apply to this 
mortgage. In the section titled Risks  important things you must consider it states If you 
leave your home but do not need long-term care you must repay this lifetime mortgage. You 
will have to pay an administration fee and you may also have to pay an early repayment 
charge. 
Section 13 of the offer set out how the ERC is calculated based on movement in gilt yields 
and examples of the ERC which would be payable based on the initial loan over certain 
periods of time depending on the movement in gilt yields, with a maximum ERC of £7,800. 
Section 14 set out the additional borrowing which was available without further approval and 
that the maximum ERC would be £15,700. I can see that Mr B was advised of the gilt 
redemption yield at the time of the initial loan and for both of the further advances.
Again, Im satisfied that the ERC owed when the mortgage was redeemed early in 2021 
wasnt out of line with what was set out in the mortgage offer. So Im satisfied this was 
applied fairly and in line with what had been illustrated  and Mr B agreed to  in 2007. 
Again, I dont consider the mortgage was mis-sold on this basis.
I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mr B studied the offer, or how much of the 
information it contained he assimilated; but the information was set out in a manner 
prescribed by the Financial Conduct Authority. Im satisfied the paperwork explained how the 
mortgage worked, all the relevant conditions that applied and the implications for Mr B of 
entering into this transaction. The recommendation letter gives some detail about Mr Bs 
circumstances, wishes and needs. I am also satisfied that it reflects what was recorded at 
the time by Aviva, based on the information provided by Mr B.
Mr B might now regret taking out the lifetime mortgage but that doesnt mean it was mis-sold 
to him in 2007. He had meetings with the adviser and was issued with various documents at the time which explained the contract he was entering into, and how the interest would 
accrue. Mr B received independent legal advice, and could have withdrawn from the 
transaction at any time. Aviva was entitled to rely on the information Mr B gave, and that 
showed that he had a need to borrow money as he didnt have sufficient savings or other 
means to meet his needs, and he didnt want to make monthly repayments to borrow money. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, from the evidence from the point of sale, that 
the advice and recommendation were suitable and that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold. I also 
think that the relevant information regarding the interest rate and ERCs was provided to Mr B 
at the time of sale and that these have been applied in line with the terms of the agreement. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B and Ms B, but I can't say that 
Aviva has done anything wrong and therefore I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require Aviva 
Life Services UK Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman