DRN-4071647
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has 
declined a terminal illness claim she made under her Level Life policy.
What happened
In summary Mrs P complained here when Royal London declined the claim she made under 
her level term life insurance policy. The policy ended in June 2022; terminal illness claims 
are not payable in the final year of cover.
Our investigator didnt recommend that it be upheld. She didnt find that the policy definition 
was met for the terminal illness claim to succeed. Mrs P appealed. As the background isnt in 
dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint and Ive left out some 
sensitive medical details. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I 
havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the complete file and 
considered the representations Mrs P made after our investigators investigation outcome. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I recognise that Mrs P will be very disappointed by my decision 
and Im sorry it doesnt bring more welcome news. But for these reasons I agree with the 
conclusion reached by the investigator:
In order for her claim to be admitted, Mrs P needs to show that she has met the 
policy definition of terminal illness. The definition in Mrs Ps policy is: An advanced 
or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending 
Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy of the person covered 
is no greater than 12 months. As cover under the policy ended in June 2022, the 
terminal illness definition needed to be satisfied by June 2021.
There is no dispute that Mrs P was unfortunately diagnosed with an advanced cancer 
in late 2020. In a letter to her GP at the time it was confirmed that the treatment plan 
was to have chemotherapy and if that resolved Mrs Ps lung disease surgery could 
be an option. The report stated it was difficult to predict before she had started her 
treatment. Nevertheless Mrs Ps evidence is that she was told by her oncologist (Dr 
H) at that time that she had two months to live. This was some 18 months before her 
policy came to an end. 
Dr H has left the country but Mrs Ps present treating physician wrote in September 
2022 I had a chat with (Dr H), by telephone, and she confirmed that this lady had a 
poor prognosis, at that time due to the fact she was diagnosed (with) and she 
required a pleural drain at that time. (Dr H) advised her that she had a poor prognosis 
and, today, she confirmed to me that her prognosis was less than 12 months. 75% of 
patients with the same diagnosis relapse if they responded to chemotherapy. 
Although this information has not come directly from Dr H, and is not 
contemporaneous, I am persuaded it is likely that Dr H, Mrs Ps treating consultant at 
the time, was of the opinion that her life expectancy was less than 12 months.
In a terminal illness questionnaire completed by her treating physician in August 
2022 he confirmed that Mrs P had been told that there was a high risk of disease 
recurrence or failed treatment. In response to the questions as to whether her life 
expectancy was less than 12 months he wrote at the moment, some response to 
treatment but needs close monitoring. Nevertheless I accept Mrs Ps point that the 
relevant date is the date of diagnosis. That she is thankfully doing well on her 
treatment regime doesnt in itself mean that the original opinion with regard to life 
expectancy was incorrect at the time. 
However the terminal illness definition requires the opinion of both an attending 
Consultant and the Chief Medical Officer to be that the life expectancy is less than 12 
months. Royal London sought the opinion of their oncology Chief Medical Officer. He 
explained why his opinion was that Mrs Ps prognosis wasnt less than 12 months in 
2020, or before June 2021. In summary he noted that Mrs P was well enough at the 
date of diagnosis to start standard care chemotherapy  she had active treatment 
options so wouldnt have been considered to have a terminal illness as at this stage. 
He noted too that between May and June 2021 there was no negative information to 
suggest a survival of 12 months or less and that there was no other information from 
2021 to support a terminal illness claim. He commented that the molecular evidence 
was associated with a better outcome  and from September 2022 there was no 
evidence of progression the disease. His view was that there was no clinical 
information to support the claim either at diagnosis or in October 2022, when he 
reported. His reasoned evidence is persuasive.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurer mustnt turn down claims 
unreasonably. In all the circumstances I cant find on the evidence before me that 
Royal London treated Mrs P unfair or unreasonably or contrary to her policy terms by 
concluding that she didnt meet the policy definition for her terminal illness claim to 
succeed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman