DRN-1854724
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) will not refund any commission it 
received from his loan payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for the policys he took 
out.  
What happened
Mr C contacted Lloyds to complain about the level of undisclosed commission (and profit 
share) received by the Lloyds on his PPI policys attached to loans he had with it. 
Lloyds explained to Mr C that it had already looked into the sale of his PPI in March 2012 
and had upheld Mr Cs complaint.
Lloyds explained that as it had already fully upheld his complaint it did not need to do 
anything further in relation to the amount of commission and profit share it received for the 
PPI policy. This was because when it offered compensation it had refunded everything Mr C 
had paid towards PPI, and this included all the commission and profit share it received.
Unhappy, Mr C brought his complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Cs complaint and thought Lloyds had acted fairly and didnt 
need to do anything further.
As the matter hasnt been resolved its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided guidance and rules on how businesses 
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer complains about the sale of PPI. It 
referred to a two-step approach. 
The first was that a business should look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether 
the consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy they did. 
And if the policy wasnt mis-sold, the second step was to look to see whether the level of 
undisclosed commission (and profit share) received by the business created an unfair 
relationship between the consumer and the business.
The rules say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission (and profit share) 
charged if it upheld the consumers complaint that PPI had been mis-sold (step 1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer wouldnt have bought the PPI they did and offers to 
put things right on that basis, it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about 
commission (step 2).So here, Im satisfied Mr C made a complaint about a mis-sale of PPI, which Lloyds 
investigated and upheld in March 2012. 
When Lloyds offered compensation to Mr C in March 2012 it refunded everything Mr C had 
paid towards PPI, and importantly this included all the commission and profit share it 
received.
As Lloyds had investigated the sale of the policy and upheld it in March 2012 with Mr C 
receiving full compensation, including all the commission and profit share it received, Lloyds 
didnt have to go on and consider whether the relationship was unfair. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about Mr Cs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Lloyds should do something different and I dont think there is. 
Lloyds has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. So I wont be telling Lloyds to do 
anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman