DRN-3515826
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Tavistock Partnership Limited (TTP) gave him unsuitable advice to 
switch from a Personal Pension Plan (PPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP), with 
a portfolio managed by a fund manager. Mr S argues that he suffered a loss in the value of 
his pension fund because of this unsuitable advice.
What happened
Mr S had a PPP that had been invested in a with-profits fund for a number of years. He was 
no longer making contributions. And was unlikely to make contributions in the future as he 
was unemployed and caring for an elderly relative.
Mr S explains that he was approached by an unregulated introducer in early 2016 who 
suggested a review of his pension arrangements. Mr S was put in touch with an adviser, who 
TTP explain were an Appointed Representative (AR) of the Tavistock Financial Network at 
the time. TTP accept responsibility for the advice given to Mr S in 2016 so for simplicity in 
this decision I will refer to the activities as having been done by TTP.
TTP completed a fact-find with Mr S and established that:
He was 56;
He had an income of £3,229 a year from a carers allowance. But was otherwise 
unemployed;
He had a PPP with a transfer value around £54,000 that was invested across two 
with-profits funds;
His income and expenditure indicated he had less than £50 a month surplus income;
He had no other pensions or investments and had £500 in his current account.
TTP recommended that Mr S switch his PPP to a SIPP and invest his funds in the Organic 
High Yield Portfolio that was managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM)  Organic 
Investment Management Ltd (OIM).
Mr S followed TTPs recommendation and in May 2016 his pension was switched. 
In July 2019 Mr S complained to TTP, via a claims management company, that hed been 
given unsuitable advice to switch pensions. He said that the investments werent appropriate 
for his attitude to risk and capacity for loss. And the investments werent easily realisable. He 
explained that hed suffered financial loss to his pension fund because of that advice. 
TTP responded in September 2019 rejecting Mr Ss complaint. In summary it said:
It wasnt responsible for investment losses as fund performance was outside of its 
control;
The investment term of the corporate bond investments werent unsuitable, as Mr S 
didnt intend to access his pension until the earliest age of 60, and then only the 
pension commencement lump sum (PCLS);
The existing PPP didnt have access to the recommended DFM;
The PPP didnt allow drawdown so a transfer would have been necessary at some 
point;
The investments in the Organic Bond Fund were suitable;
The risk assessment of 5 out of 10 (balanced) was agreed with Mr S.
Mr Ss complaint was referred to our service and an investigator considered what had 
happened. He concluded that TTP had given Mr S unsuitable advice to switch his pension. 
He thought that Mr Ss PPP already offered suitable fund choices, and that the 
recommendation offered a product with combined higher fees. Which he said wasnt 
justified. He didnt think that Mr S needed an investment managed in the way that TTP 
recommended and explained that the recommended investment wasnt suitable for Mr Ss 
attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
TTP offered to do a loss calculation, but calculated Mr Ss loss to 2017 when it said its 
liability for what happened ended. Which was contrary to the view given by our investigator. 
So this complaint has been referred for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties to explain my thoughts and provide them with 
the opportunity to respond. 
Both parties acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but had no further comment on 
the outcome Id reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any issues with the provisional decision I reached, so having 
considered all of the evidence, my final decision is the same as that provisional decision. I 
still think that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld for the following reasons.
Mr S was 56 at the point that TTP reviewed his pension arrangements. This meant that he 
was already able to access his pension benefits if he needed or wanted to. The fact-find that 
TTP undertook indicated that he had no immediate need to access his benefits. He was 
living in his family home so had no rent or mortgage commitments. His income was modest, 
but so too were his outgoings. So I think its likely that Mr S wasnt considering immediate 
access to his pension.
The fact-find indicated a retirement age of 66. Which was Mr Ss state pension age. But it 
recognised the potential that Mr S may wish to access a PCLS from his pension at age 60. 
Which I think TTP ought to have considered quite likely. TTP identified no other savings or 
investments for Mr S. Put simply, his PPP was his only access to funds for emergencies and 
to supplement his modest income until reaching state retirement age when his income would 
seemingly improve. 
Mr Ss capacity for loss on this pension, his only source of savings or future income, was 
actually very low. He was not working so appeared unlikely to be able to contribute further to 
a pension. Which TTPs fact-find identified. He had little surplus income and no identified 
assets. 
TTP assessed Mr S as having a balanced attitude to risk. It used a questionnaire which it 
says provided a score of 5 out of 10. But I dont think that was enough for TTP to consider 
that Mr S ought to have been invested in that way. As Ive said, I dont think that Mr S had 
the capacity to suffer much loss at all on this pension. Overall, I think that TTP ought to have prioritised ensuring easy access to his benefits and the security of his investment.
It is understandable that Mr S wanted investment growth, which would be an objective for 
most consumers. But it was the job of TTP to consider Mr Ss specific circumstances to 
determine if he ought really to take on a level of risk to achieve higher returns than he could 
already achieve in his PPP. I say this because TTP were aware that Mr Ss PPP had 
guaranteed investment returns.
The ceding pension scheme informed TTP that Mr Ss PPP had guarantees that the fund 
would grow by at least 4% a year, before charges. Which was highlighted by the ceding 
scheme as a valuable benefit. Which I think was fair. It was a policy benefit that was no 
longer available to new customers and the PPP no longer accepted contributions on those 
terms. It would be lost on transferring, which introduced the possibility that Mr Ss pension 
could instead achieve negative returns and lose money. The reasons for transferring at that 
point needed to be more persuasive in light of this lost guarantee.
TTPs suitability report recommended that Mr S transfer to a SIPP in order to be able to 
pursue its recommended investment strategy. It seems to be the only reason provided to 
justify the switch. And was the same reason that TTP discounted an alternative personal 
pension or a cheaper stakeholder pension. Ive seen no evidence that investing in the OIM 
High Yield fund was something Mr S wanted to do prior to TTPs advice. The investment 
recommendation was a key part of TTPs rationale. So Ive considered if TTPs investment 
recommendation warranted this switch.
TTP considered that Mr S would be better served by investing in one of the investment 
portfolios offered by OIM. TTP were aware that OIM offered a number of portfolios. These 
were listed in an independently conducted Risk Tolerance Score Mapping as:
Cautious/Defensive
Conservative/Moderate
Balanced
Ambitious/Progressive
Adventurous/Aggressive
High Yield
The score mapping showed these portfolios as having escalating levels of risk, with the High 
Yield as the highest risk portfolio. Against a risk score of 100 it was stated that it was a best 
fit for risk 63 to 77. 
TTP offered little explanation in its recommendation to explain why it considered this portfolio 
to best fit Mr Ss objectives. But I cant see that it was an appropriate recommendation for a 
balanced risk investor. And for the reasons Ive already given, I think Mr Ss capacity for loss 
meant he ought really to have been dealt with as a more defensive investor. So the 
investment choice that TTP recommended wasnt suitable for Mr S. 
The suitability report identified that the costs associated with switching to the SIPP may be 
greater than his existing PPP or other options. But the recommendation asserted that the 
potential for greater investment returns compensated for the increase in charges. 
TTP has shared the information that it received from OIM as part of its due diligence checks. 
This highlighted that OIM had only been incorporated since July 2014 and advising on 
investments since January 2015. TTPs questionnaire asked OIM for a benchmark based on 
peer group performance. And were told by OIM No, we dont have 12 months plus of profit 
and loss. TTP were therefore unable to assess the actual performance of OIM as a fund 
manager. Which I think made this recommendation even more speculative. And certainly made it unreasonable to confidently state that the expected future performance would be 
such that Mr S would improve his returns in spite of the increased charges he would face.
Given that TTPs recommendation to switch from his PPP was based entirely on being able 
to access this unsuitable investment fund, I dont think that the recommendation to switch 
was suitable either. TTP shouldnt have recommended that Mr S switch his pension in order 
to invest it in the way it did.
Ive considered whether Mr S would have switched his pension at that point anyway. But Im 
not persuaded that he would have. I think that the PPP he had, most likely met his 
objectives. He wasnt able to take a lot of investment risk with this pension. And the 
guaranteed returns he had with his existing funds meant it was probably not in his interests 
to transfer. 
I understand that TTP werent directly responsible for the way in which OIM went on to 
manage the Organic High Yield portfolio. If its recommendation to switch pensions and 
invest in that way had been suitable for Mr Ss circumstances, then its argument that it was 
not responsible for subsequent investment losses may have had merit. But Ive explained 
why I dont think TTPs recommendation was suitable. Mr S only ended up invested in the 
portfolio that he did as a result of TTPs advice. So TTP are directly responsible for the 
consequences of his pension being invested in that unsuitable portfolio. 
Ive considered TTPs argument that its liability ended when a new principal became 
responsible for the ongoing advice that the AR provided. But I dont think thats fair. A big 
issue that made TTPs recommendation unsuitable was that it caused him the irreversible 
loss of his guaranteed investment returns. Whilst a subsequent adviser may have been able 
to match Mr S to investments that were more appropriate to his attitude to risk, they couldnt 
have returned him to the PPP that he should have remained in. So I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to hold TTP responsible for the entirety of Mr Ss losses. If it considers 
that there is shared responsibility with another firm, its entitled to pursue the matter with that 
firm to recover its share of any redress.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for TTPs error. I think this would have meant Mr S remained in 
the with-profits funds in his ceding scheme.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from the ceding scheme on the basis that it remained invested as it was and 
subtracting the current value of the current SIPP from this notional value (account should be 
taken of any withdrawals Mr S has made from his SIPP). If the answer is negative, theres a 
gain and no redress is payable.
If there is a loss, that amount is the compensation figure. The compensation amount should 
if possible be paid into Mr Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum. Ive considered whether Mr S was likely to 
have paid income tax on future income from his pension. His income requirements have 
been modest, and after taking a tax free lump sum I think his remaining pension could have 
been taken in a way that would not have exceeded his personal allowance, even when in receipt of his state pension. So Im making no notional reduction, for future income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
TTP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that The Tavistock Partnership Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman