DRN-3199139
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy because Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt reimburse 
the money she lost after paying for an item she did not receive. 
What happened
Miss Vs son wanted to buy a Playstation 5 (PS 5). Ive seen an online market place 
exchange of messages between the scammer and Miss V/her son. These show:
- Miss Vs son was interested in buying a PS 5 through the online marketplace from a 
company Ill call T. The messages received were from the sales manager of the 
store. 
- Miss V/her son asked if there were any digital versions instore and the seller said 
there were and confirmed the cost was £400, delivery was available and would take 
place 12-24 hours after the sale. 
- The seller was asked what the shop was called and provided a different name to T 
(the company sending the messages). 
- Miss V/her son asked if the seller would have any PS5s on Thursday as that was pay 
day. 
- T asked for delivery and invoice details that were provided.
- On 21 April Miss V/her son said payment could be made that evening and asked for 
account details. 
- The seller sent a photograph of what would be sent and payment details. The 
account was in the name of an individual not a company.
- Miss V/her son asked for delivery details and asked why the picture was of a disk 
rather than digital version. 
- The seller confirmed tracking details would be sent immediately payment was made 
and a picture of a different PS 5. 
- Miss V/her son asked how much the disc version cost and was told £500. After some 
negotiation a price of £420 with an additional console and game was agreed. 
- Miss V/her son said, And how do I know this is not a scam and was told it was a 
registered store.
- Miss V/her son said, But I searched your store up and I cant find anything.
- The seller said the store was legitimate and a registered business and they wouldnt 
cheat anyone. 
- Miss V/her son asked how long it would be before she/he got a tracking reference 
and was told a few minutes. 
- The tracking reference didnt come through and Miss V/her son sent a number of 
messages about it and was told to be patient. Miss V/her son then said if they didnt 
get it in the next 20 minutes, theyd get a refund from the bank the funds were sent 
to. 
- Miss V/her son asked when delivery would be and was told the following day. 
- Miss V/her son asked for the address of the sellers shop.
- The seller provided an invoice from T showing an address in London. 
- There are further messages about the fact Miss V/her son didnt receive tracking 
information and the PS 5 wasnt delivered. 
After the scam Miss V has given different versions of events, so I have set out below what 
she told Halifax. 
Call on 22 April 2021 at 13.03
Mrs V called Halifax. The main points that were discussed were:
- Miss V didnt recognize, and hadnt made a payment for £420 to T. Shed researched 
T and found it was a company that sold SIM cards. Miss V contacted T and it said it 
wouldnt take her money.
- Halifax told Miss V the payment went to an individual not a company and asked if 
Miss V knew him. Miss V said she didnt know the individual the payment went to but 
had traced it back to T.
-  Miss V said no-one had access to her online banking or her password and her 
mobile (a Samsung) had been in her possession the whole time. 
- When told the payment had been made using her registered iPhone Miss V said 
shed traded it in the week before and left the banking app on it. 
- Halifax told Miss V that from the information it had the transaction wasnt made by 
someone who had fraudulently obtained the details. The payment was made using 
Miss Vs registered iPhone and even if it had been traded in her fingerprint and 
passwords would be needed. Given this, Halifax said it couldnt agree there was 
fraud. But if Miss V sent money and didnt receive goods it would be logged 
separately as a scam case.
Call on 22 April 2021 at 16.54
Miss V called Halifax back. Below is a summary of what was discussed:
- Miss V said she found out when she picked her son up from school that he had used 
her card to buy a PS 5 after saving up his birthday money. She hadnt known this 
when she made the previous call. 
- Miss V didnt end the call when the Halifax advisor left it and can be heard telling her 
son now this has been raised as a scam, shell get her money back. 
Miss V called Halifax back on 26 April 2021 and said the Playstation hadnt been received.
In a later call in May 2021 Miss V said her online banking details were on her sons phone. 
When asked why, when she initially called, shed said nobody else used her online banking 
Miss V said shed forgotten. Miss V was also asked how she knew about T in her very first 
call with Halifax when she said she didnt recognise the payment. Miss V denied she knew 
this information and said she didnt recognise the payment because it was to an individual. 
When the adviser said shed listened to the previous call Miss V terminated the call.
What Halifax sayHalifax say that it gave an effective warning at the time the payment was made (pay by card 
its a safe way to pay. If you cant pay by card, its probably a scam). It also said Miss V 
hadnt taken the required level of care when she made the payment and wasnt honest in her 
dealings with it. 
Halifax has told this service that the disputed £420 payment was made from the same IP 
address as the one used by Miss V, using her registered phone and after logging in using 
her fingerprint. She has provided a number of inconsistent versions of events making it hard 
to confirm the information she has provided. It believes she has acted dishonestly and 
obstructively in a material way and that, in the circumstances, it shouldnt reimburse her. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. He said he considered Miss 
V was involved in the payment process as in the initial call she said she didnt recognise a 
payment to T, but the payment was to an individual. The messages before the payment was 
made also refer to the fact the payment could only be made after Thursday, and this is the 
day Miss Vs benefits are paid in to her account.  
The investigator went on to say Miss V didnt take enough care before making the 
payment/allowing the payment to be made. In summary, this was because:
- Insufficient checks were made into T before payment was made. The scammer said 
T was a shop in Scotland. When Miss V/her son asked for the name of the shop 
she/he was given a different name of another company.  The messages exchanged 
with the scammer indicated Miss V/her son knew this before the payment was made. 
- Online marketplace messages were addressed to T but the scammer gave a totally 
different name for a store he said was in Scotland. Miss V/her son didnt ask any 
questions about this and the invoice showed an address in London.
- The price of the PS5 was too good to be true.
- Although Miss V thought she was buying from a company the payment was to an 
individual. 
- The messages exchanged with the scammer show Miss V had doubts but went 
ahead with the payment anyway. 
The investigator also didnt think the payments were unusual so that Halifax should have had 
any concerns. Finally, he said Halifax had acted reasonably in recovering Miss Vs funds.  
Miss V didnt agree with the investigators findings but didnt provide any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Halifax should have reimbursed Miss V under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Theres no dispute here that Miss V/her son was tricked into making the payment. But this 
isnt enough for Miss V to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Miss V too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
 The customer has been grossly negligent 
*The two further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
The Code also says,
In assessing whether a Customer should be reimbursed or not, Firms should consider
(b) whether, during the process of assessing whether the Customer should be reimbursed, 
the Customer has acted dishonestly or obstructively in a material respect.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Miss 
V and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Halifax has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Miss V made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payment she made. I havent 
considered whether Miss V ignored an effective warning because I dont believe Miss V met 
her requisite level of care for other reasons, which I have discussed below. 
In the circumstances I consider Halifax acted reasonably in not providing Miss V with a 
refund. 
Reasonable basis for belief
I consider Miss V either made the transaction or that her son did with her consent and 
therefore she authorised the payment, so I am considering her level of care. 
I dont consider Miss V has been honest with Halifax during its investigation. Her account of 
what happened has altered over time and she hasnt provided reasonable explanations for 
the changes. For example, Miss V initially said she didnt recognise a payment to T and that 
no-one else had access to her online banking. Later that same day she said her son made 
the payment without her knowledge, meaning he had access to her online banking. Miss V 
also told Halifax in her first call on 22 April 2021 that she had traded in her iPhone a few 
weeks before the transaction. This wasnt the case as the evidence shows Miss Vs 
registered iPhone was used to make the payment for the PS5. In a later call with Halifax 
Miss V denied that in her first call she knew the payment was to T and when challenged 
didnt provide an explanation and terminated the call. 
Miss Vs lack of honesty means it is difficult to get a clear picture of what happened and what 
Miss V actually thought about the seller at the time the payment was made. This makes 
deciding if she had a reasonable basis for belief more difficult. But after careful consideration 
I dont believe Miss V had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for genuine 
goods or services or that T was legitimate because:
- Miss V didnt complete sufficient checks to ensure she was dealing with a legitimate 
company. The online marketplace messages were from T but when Miss V asked for the name of the shop, she was given the name of a different company in a different 
location. She didnt question this.
- The messages Miss V exchanged with the scammer before the payment was made 
indicate that she had concerns about the legitimacy of the sale but went ahead and 
made the payment without receiving satisfactory answers. 
Miss V asked the seller how they would know it wasnt a scam. The seller said the 
store was registered and Miss V confirmed shed been unable to find it. The seller 
didnt provide any evidence the store was legitimate but simply said it was and Miss 
V accepted this and moved on to discuss the reference that should be provided with 
payment. 
In fact, the company the seller told Miss V was selling the PS5 was a provider of 
mobile SIM cards to shops. Miss V knew this by the time she first called Halifax to 
report a payment she didnt recognise but I cant be sure at what stage she checked 
it. But I am satisfied Miss V had sufficient concerns to make further enquiries before 
making the payment. Im persuaded Miss V knew there were risks associated with 
the purchase but went ahead anyway. 
- The price of the PS5 was too good to be true, especially given its limited availability. 
Im aware that online marketplaces are an increasingly common way for private 
sellers to sell items they no longer want, use or need. Its possible that a private 
seller looking to make a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the price or to 
sell an item for less than it might typically be worth. 
But price can be one indicator that there is potentially something untoward about the     
seller or the proposed deal and in this case, I consider Miss V should have been 
concerned. PS5s were very hard to get hold of at the time as there were supply 
difficulties. The retail price of a disc console alone was £450, and Miss V was also 
getting a game and an additional console. The total price for the entire package 
would have been around £550. So Miss V was paying considerably less than the 
retail price for a product in high demand and short supply without any reasonable 
explanation for this. I consider this point, combined with the others I have discussed 
should have caused Miss V concern.   
- The messages exchanged with the scammer make it clear Miss V was dealing with a 
company, but the bank account details provided for the transfer were for an 
individual. I consider this to be unusual, but Miss V didnt investigate this before 
making the payment.  
In the circumstances, I dont consider Miss V had a reasonable basis for believing she was 
buying a genuine PS5 and/or the seller of it was legitimate. I believe she could and should 
have made further enquiries before making the payment.  
So I consider Miss V didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was paying a 
legitimate seller and that this is sufficient reason not to reimburse her under the CRM Code. 
Are there any other reasons why Halifax should refund Miss V?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify authorised push payment scam risks in a 
payment journey, they should take reasonable steps to provide Effective Warnings to their 
customers. The Code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or 
not should involve consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. 
In the particular circumstances of this case I dont think Halifax needed to provide Miss V 
with an effective warning. Miss V was making a payment of £420 to a new payee. Making payments to a new payee can indicate that there is a greater risk of the payment being 
fraudulent than if the payment is made to an existing payee  but at the same time its 
important to recognise that most payments to new payees are legitimate and not a cause for 
concern. So Ive thought about whether there was anything else about the payment that 
ought to have alerted Halifax to a scam risk. Other than the fact the payment of £420 was 
being sent to a new payee it was unremarkable. For example, it wasnt significantly out of 
keeping with how Miss V tended to operate her account, it wasnt for a particularly large 
amount and the payment didnt clear the balance of her account, and there wasnt anything 
about the recipient account that I think Halifax ought to have been concerned about either. 
Im also mindful that when Miss V made the payment Halifax should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered whether the 
payment Miss V made was unusual or suspicious. But for the same reasons Ive set out 
above, the payment Miss V was making was unremarkable so I dont think it stood out 
enough for Halifax to have been concerned that Miss V might have been at risk of financial 
harm from fraud at the time it was made. 
Recovery
Ive also considered Halifaxs actions once it was made aware of the scam. Ive seen 
evidence from Halifax that it contacted the receiving bank in a reasonable timeframe but no 
funds remained, so Im satisfied Halifax did what Id expect it to in trying to recover the funds. 
Overall
I consider Miss V didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a payment for 
a genuine PS5 and/or the seller of it was legitimate. Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss V, 
but I cant fairly say Halifax should have done more or that it should refund the money that 
she has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman