DRN-2411960
The complaint
Ms B complains (with help from a relative) that Zenith Insurance plc mishandled her claim on 
a motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against one 
insurance company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name 
that firm, but we dont identify any other company or person.
In about 2014, a well-known car-maker made a car. In October 2014, the first owner 
registered that car. In about June 2017, Ms B got that car on a 48-month finance agreement. 
The finance company was associated with the car-maker. 
For the year from mid-July 2018, Ms B took out a motor insurance policy under which Zenith 
was responsible for dealing with claims.
Unfortunately, on about 8 June 2019, her car was involved in an incident in which it left the 
road. Zenith arranged for it to be recovered and taken to a repairer. By 17 June 2019, 
Zeniths engineer had decided that the car had structural damage and was beyond economic 
repair.
By a letter dated 3 July 2019, Zenith said Ms B had made a careless misrepresentation 
about her occupation, so the policy was void from the start.
In September and October 2019, Ms B or her relative called Zenith to ask about her car. 
Through her relative, Ms B complained that Zenith hadnt discussed the salvage of her car.
By a final response dated 9 December 2019, Zenith said it was satisfied that it had taken the 
correct steps in salvaging the vehicle. But it said it was sending Ms B a cheque for £100.00 
for lack of communication. 
Ms B brought her complaint to us in March 2020. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
Zenith made a mistake in respect of the salvage. He said that the vehicle was not Ms Bs 
property to retain. Furthermore the policy was voided, Ms B accepted this, and the 
investigator thought this was correct.
Our investigator thought that Ms Bs request for updates hadnt been dealt with correctly. He 
recommended that  in addition to the £100.00 already paid - Zenith should pay a further 
£150.00  a total of £250.00 for the loss of expectation and the distress caused. 
Zenith agreed with the investigators opinion.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Her relative says, in summary, that:
Her car was never involved in an actual accident that would result in this. She was 
stuck in mud, due to swerving into it. She called the insurance company as she 
wanted to be towed out of the mud  not because she was involved in a physical 
accident. This wasnt reflected into the report written. A police report will detail this.
Her car was scrapped based on false information from Zenith to her finance company 
that her car was involved in an accident that resulted in a write-off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage
I havent seen any police report. But in mid-January 2021, Zenith sent us a full version of its 
engineers report. That includes photographs. Some of the photographs show serious 
damage to the front and nearside of the car. Another photograph bears the following 
comment: 
DRIVE SHAFT RIPPED OUT AND SUBFRAME DAMAGED
So Im satisfied that Ms Bs car had suffered a heavy impact causing structural and 
mechanical damage.
The position if the policy hadnt been void
Zenith wouldve had the choice whether to repair the car or to pay its pre-accident market 
value. Its clear from the damage report that Zenith wouldnt have repaired the car.
It wouldve treated it as a Category S write-off. That meant that the car was structurally 
damaged, but a professional repairer could repair it.
In line with the policy terms, Zenith wouldve paid the pre-accident value (less policy excess) 
to the finance company.
The damaged car wouldve become the property of Zenith. Zenith wouldve been entitled to 
sell the damaged car.
I find it unlikely that the finance company wouldve wanted to buy the damaged car. Zenith 
wouldve asked for a salvage payment and deducted it from what it paid the finance 
company.
I wouldnt have expected Zenith to offer to sell the damaged car to Ms B. In any event she 
wouldve had to make the salvage payment and pay a professional repairer to repair the car. 
Misrepresentation
From the emails in October 2019, I dont think Ms B or her relative complained very much 
about Zeniths decision to treat the policy as void from the start. But Zenith dealt with that 
point in its final response. And Ms Bs complaint form included the following:they said my policy is void as on insurance application, I wrote that my profession 
was child minder instead of carer. I explained to the insurance company that I was 
doing child minder job before and my current job is now carer so I accidently stated 
this. I accepted that they will not pay anything but asked that I have my car back in 
any condition
The complaint form said that Zenith should pay the cost of Ms Bs car or return it to her. The 
complaint that Zenith should pay the cost of the car was in effect a complaint about Zeniths 
decision to treat the policy as void. 
I consider that the investigator was correct to deal with that point of complaint.
Im satisfied that  when she applied for the policy - Zenith asked Ms B a clear question what 
her occupation was. In answer, Ms B replied that she was a child-minder. 
But she mustve known that she was no longer a child-minder and had become a care 
assistant. So I find that she hadnt taken reasonable care to answer the question correctly.
From its underwriting criteria, Im satisfied that Zenith wouldnt have offered cover to a care 
assistant. So I dont find that Zenith treated Ms B unfairly by deciding to treat the policy as 
void from the start.
As shed made a claim, I wouldnt expect Zenith to refund the premium.
The position as the policy was void
Zenith had paid to recover the car. It had the car stored at its repairer. Zenith didnt own or 
have the right to sell the damaged car. It belonged to the finance company.
On 17 September 2019 Zenith contacted the finance company. From what Ive seen, the 
finance company asked Zenith to sell the damaged car on its behalf. And Zenith sent the 
proceeds of sale to the finance company.
I dont hold Zenith responsible for anything said or done by the finance company. 
Overall I dont consider that Zenith did anything wrong in relation to the damaged car.
Communication
But I consider that  in a difficult situation  Zenith shouldve communicated with Ms B in a 
clearer and more timely way. I can see that the shortcomings in its communication have 
added extra distress and inconvenience for Ms B at an already difficult time for her.
Putting things right
Zenith has agreed with the investigator that £100.00 wasnt enough compensation for this 
and that a total of £250.00 is fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that a total of £250.00 is at 
least fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Zenith Insurance plc to pay Ms B  in addition to the £100.00 it has already paid  a 
further £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman