DRN-1936085
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges Barclays Bank UK Plc applied to international transfers 
he made from his current account.
What happened
Mr A holds a current account with Barclays. In November and December 2018 he arranged 
to transfer funds online from his account to an account he holds abroad. He did the same in 
April 2019.
When the funds credited his overseas account the amounts were lower than he expected on 
each occasion. Mr A said he was told that no charges were deducted by his overseas bank. 
So, he felt Barclays must have charged transaction fees, which it hadnt disclosed.  He 
therefore contacted it to query the shortfall and complain. 
After Barclays investigated it told Mr A it had applied a margin of 2.75% to his transfers in 
line with its policy to do so on all international payments. It said its website explained it would 
charge a margin. And it said any additional charges that may have been deducted from Mr 
As transfers would have been applied by the intermediary bank that was involved in 
processing his payments if they hadnt been applied by the receiving bank. So Barclays 
didnt think it had made any errors in processing Mr As online transfers. And it didnt uphold 
his complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to his complaint Mr A referred it to our service. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr A and Barclays. But they didnt 
uphold this complaint. Overall, they didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably in how it 
had dealt with Mr As international transfers. And they thought it had provided sufficient 
information about the charges and margin it would apply before he agreed to make the 
transfers. So, they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. But Mr A disagreed and asked 
for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr A has gone to some 
trouble to provide us with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that Ive read 
everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment hes 
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr A experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think Barclays made 
a mistake, or treated Mr A unfairly, in the way it dealt with his international payments and in 
applying the charges it did such that it needs to now put things right.There are three parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
each separately. 
The intermediary bank fee
Mr A said Barclays use of an intermediary bank should have been disclosed to him prior to 
his international payments being made. However, Im not persuaded this is reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Not all international payments involve the use of an intermediary bank to process that 
payment before it reaches the recipient bank. So, the use of an intermediate bank will 
depend on whether Barclays has a direct relationship with the receiving bank overseas. And 
Im not persuaded its reasonable to expect Barclays to know, or tell its customers, whether 
an intermediary bank would be involved in processing a transfer prior the payment being 
sent.  
Mr A made three separate transfer payments to his overseas account between November 
2018 and April 2019. So, Im persuaded he ought reasonably to have known an intermediary 
bank would be used to process his payment by the time he made his second and third 
transfer. 
I appreciate that Mr A is unhappy that Barclays use of an intermediary bank incurred a cost. 
But I think he ought to have been aware that using an intermediary bank would incur a fee 
because intermediary bank fees were deducted from all the payments he made.
I understand Mr A may have wanted to know what that fee was before he transferred his 
money. However, Barclays couldnt have reasonably known the fees an intermediary bank 
may charge. This was something over which it had no control.
As our investigator explained, our service wouldnt expect Barclays to have a direct 
relationship with every overseas bank. And its reasonable to expect an intermediary bank to 
charge a fee, which explains why fees were deducted from the sum Mr A transferred. 
For the reasons already given, Im not persuaded that Barclays could have anticipated the 
fees Mr A was charged even if hed enquired before making his transfers. And I cant fairly 
find it made an error here.
The margin Barclays applied
Mr A is unhappy with margin that has been applied to international transfers he made in 
November and December 2018 and in April 2019. He says Barclays website is unclear as to 
this charge. And he told our service that he only became aware of the margin after running 
his own calculations for each international payment he made. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A said here. And Ive considered the content of 
Barclays website and its terms and conditions to assess whether it provides sufficient 
information to its customers about charging a margin insofar as international payments are 
concerned. 
Barclays has provided our service with screenshots of the information Im satisfied Mr A 
would have seen on its website prior to making his transfers. These screenshots state:
The Exchange Rate is made up on a Barclays reference rate of GBPUSD (exchange rate) 
and a margin of 2.75% which equates to the USD (USD equivalent).I understand that Mr A feels the terminology used here is unclear. He thinks the reference to 
a margin is ambiguous and misleading. But, as our investigator explained, this is a common 
industry wide term. And Im persuaded that Barclays presented transparent information on 
its website that a commission would be applied to international payments. So, I dont agree 
with Mr A that the information was hidden or misleading.
In addition to the information Mr A would have seen online the terms and conditions that 
apply to his account clearly state:
If you ask us to make a payment in a different currency from the currency of your account, 
well convert it using an exchange rate made up of a reference exchange rate, which 
changes to reflect currency market movements, to which we may add a margin.
This all persuades me that Barclays provided clear and unambiguous information that it may 
apply a margin to international payments. Im also satisfied that, as Mr A made three transfer 
payments to his overseas account, he ought reasonably to have been aware a margin was 
being applied by the time he made his second and third transfer. And I think this gave him 
opportunity to decide whether to continue to use Barclays to make his payments to his 
overseas account.
I understand that, in addition to being unhappy that Barclays charged a margin, Mr A 
complains about the amount he was charged. But I can see that its Barclays policy to apply 
a 2.75% to international payments of less than £20000. So, Im satisfied the amount Mr A 
was charged was inline with Barclays policy here.
I appreciate that Mr A feels that charging a margin is unfair. He says its unjustifiable. But 
this is an industry wide practice. And I agree with the investigator that its not within the remit 
of our service to interfere with Barclays decision on whether it charges a margin, and if so 
how much. This is a commercial decision for Barclays to make itself. So, Im not going to 
comment any further on this complaint issue.
Other charges Mr A incurred
I can see that an overseas delivery fee of £4 was added to the international payment Mr A 
made in April 2019. However, the payments he made in November and December 2018 
didnt attract this charge.
As our investigator explained in their view, when an international payment is made the payee 
is given different options about overseas delivery charges. One of these choices is that the 
payee can agree to pay the overseas charges  as Im persuaded Mr A did with his April 
2019 payment given that this payment instruction was completed online by Mr A himself. 
And Im not persuaded this charge was unfair in all the circumstances.
Having seen evidence of the information Mr A would have seen prior to making his transfers 
Im satisfied that he was given the choice of how to pay for international banking charges 
that would apply to the sums he was transferring. I also believe hed have been aware of 
those charges by the time he made his second and third overseas payments. It follows that I 
cant fairly find Barclays has done anything wrong in applying the charges it did.
I appreciate that Mr A feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything he has said. While I appreciate the reasons why he brought 
his complaint to our service Im satisfied that Barclays hasnt done anything wrong. It acted 
fairly and reasonably here. So, Im not going ask it to do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman