DRN-1662974
The complaint
Mr A and Mr A2 complain that Bluefin Insurance Services Limited (BIS) failed to notify their 
insurer of a legal expenses claim. They say this led to the claim being declined, for which 
they hold BIS liable. They are also unhappy with the service they received. 
Mr A and Mr A2 are business associates, but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mr A in 
the singular. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of the key points here. 
For a number of years BIS arranged insurance for Mr A. This primarily related to his 
business of letting commercial and residential property. The insurance included cover for 
certain Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI).
BIS say they arranged the following LEI cover for Mr A:
7 May 2014 to 6 May 2016 Commercial Property Policy provided by insurer L
7 May 2016 to 6 May 2019 Commercial Property Policy provided by insurer A.
 
In 2014 there was a fire at one of Mr As premises which resulted in significant damage and 
a large claim. The settlement provided by L didnt cover all of the costs of rebuilding. L didnt 
meet the claim in full as they said the property was underinsured. Im aware Mr A has a 
separate complaint with our service about whether BIS arranged a suitable amount of cover 
 but I wont be commenting on that here. 
In 2017 Mr A wanted to take legal action to pursue the shortfall. This included considering 
action against his former tenant and their insurer. Mr A and his solicitor made enquiries with 
A, who declined the claim. Amongst other reasons, A said that a claim about events that 
predated the policy was excluded. A claim was also later made to L, which was also 
declined. L said the policy requires they must be notified of a claim within the period of the 
insurance  which hadnt happened. 
Mr A complained to BIS. He says their failure to notify L within the period of insurance has 
caused the claim to be declined. He also says that he received poor service from BIS who 
were slow to progress his claims. BIS defended their position; in summary they didnt agree 
theyd provided a poor service. They also said they couldnt reasonably have been aware 
that Mr A wanted to take legal action until they were informed of this in December 2017. 
Mr A brought the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. He didnt 
think it should be upheld. He pointed out that he could only consider the actions of BIS, not 
whether or not either insurer had acted fairly. But he agreed BIS couldnt have known about 
Mr As wish to make a legal claim until they were informed. He also noted that shortly after the fire Mr A had instructed a loss adjuster. So, he thought it was reasonable that BIS had 
less involvement in the claim. 
Mr A didnt accept this as an outcome and so the complaint has come to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. So Im 
not upholding it. Let me explain why. 
The claim
BIS arent responsible for the decision to decline either LEI claim. So I wont be commenting 
on those decisions. If Mr A is unhappy with those decisions, he may wish to complain to his 
insurers. And if they cant resolve that for him, it may be something our service can assist 
with. But it isnt something I can comment on here. 
I dont think BIS were wrong when they didnt notify L about a LEI claim in November 2014, 
shortly after the fire. At that point there was no dispute about which to consider legal action. 
Ive considered Mr As comments that it should have been obvious that a dispute would 
occur. But I dont think there was anything that BIS objectively could have based an LEI 
claim on at that time. BIS say that the first time they knew there might be a legal dispute was 
when they were contacted by Mr As solicitor in December 2017. 
I can see that once this happened BIS were promptly in touch with the LEI insurers. Ive no 
reason to doubt that they would have done similarly, if contacted sooner. And I dont think 
they were wrong not to assume that Mr A wished to take legal action. Im not satisfied there 
is evidence to support that they were notified of the intended legal action sooner and that 
they failed to initiate a claim when they should have done. 
Mr As claim about the fire was settled in March 2016. So at this point he would have known 
there was a shortfall. In April 2017 Mr A contacted a solicitor about considering legal action. 
So I think its most likely that Mr A took his decision about legal action after May 2016 (when 
his policy with L ended). If he had intended to take action sooner, I think he would have 
contacted a solicitor sooner. And as he didnt do so until nearly a year later, I think we would 
have ended up in the same place in relation to the LEI claim. That being that it was being 
made about an event that occurred within Ls period of cover but with the claim being raised 
during As period of cover. 
The Service
There are only limited notes of the meetings that took place in the aftermath of the fire. But I 
can see that Mr A appointed a loss adjuster H within a week of the fire taking place. Mr A 
feels that another of BIS customers was receiving preferential treatment and things didnt 
get moving until he appointed H to act on his behalf. Im satisfied by Mr As testimony that he 
wanted H to act for him as he felt they were more positive about what was an achievable 
result. 
I think it is understandable that BIS had less involvement in the claims process  following 
Mr As decision to appoint H to act on his behalf. The evidence supports that BIS attended 
some meetings to advise on policy issues. But I agree with our investigator that those meetings were unlikely to include discussions about a claimable event that was yet to occur. 
I say this because the claim was yet to be settled. So at that point there was no shortfall and 
no loss about which to consider legal action.
And even if BIS could have provided better service at that point, Im not persuaded it would 
have made a difference. This is for the reason Ive outlined above. Its most likely that the 
decision to take legal action was taken after the policy with L had already expired. So within 
the caveat that I make no comment or finding about the decisions of L or A, I think the 
outcome would have been the same. Any claim made to L would have likely been declined 
for not being notified within the period of cover. And any claim made to A would likely have 
been declined due to the event pre-dating the policy. Though, as Ive said, I cant comment 
on whether those decisions were fair. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that BIS have acted unfairly or inappropriately in the 
circumstances of this complaint. So Im not going to tell them they need to do anything 
further to resolve it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman