DRN-3878647
The complaint
Mr H and Mr P complain Age Partnership Limited made mistakes in processing their 
application for an equity release mortgage which led to them borrowing at a higher interest 
rate and their mortgage costing more overall. 
What happened
In September 2021 Mr H and Mr P approached APL to arrange an equity release mortgage 
when they were looking at moving home. They initially discussed borrowing around 
£102,000. But they required around an additional £10,000 when the price of the property 
they wanted to buy increased. APL confirmed their previous recommendations about the 
proposed lending and basis of borrowing remained suitable when Mr P spoke to them about 
that on 29 September. And they said theyd issue a revised Key Facts information document 
(KFI) setting out the proposed lending.
Mr H and Mr P submitted a signed application form on 30 September. Mr P chased the KFI 
on 5 October. And APL sent it out the following day. The KFI confirmed Mr H and Mr P could 
borrow the £111,790 they required at an interest rate of 2.55% with a cashback sum of 
£1,000.
It came to light in mid-October that the request APL had made to the lender for the KFI had 
contained incorrect information about the property Mr H and Mr P were buying. So, the KFI 
was invalid and the application hadnt been processed. APL submitted two further requests. 
But they used the wrong process which didnt reflect the correct interest rates available at 
the time. Interest rates had increased twice  on 6 and 12 October  since Mr H and Mr P 
had made their application. And although the lender issued an offer on 25 October for 
£110,000, it was at an interest rate of 3%. 
Mr P complained to APL. On around 28 October, they gave him a choice between borrowing 
the higher amount at an interest rate of 3% or the lower amount at the rate of 2.55%. They 
warned interest rates were about to change the following day, so an immediate decision was 
necessary. Mr P couldnt speak to Mr H at the time. He decided to go ahead based on the 
lower borrowing. But they later realised it wouldnt be possible financially. They took advice 
from an independent financial adviser (IFA) and secured borrowing at £110,000 with the 
same lender at a rate of 2.95%. They completed the loan on 28 January 2022.
Mr H and Mr P felt theyd missed out on the interest rate of 2.55% because of mistakes APL 
had made. They thought APL should compensate them for the additional £15,000 they 
calculated theyll accrue over the mortgage term as a result of the higher interest rate theyre 
now subject to. And they were unhappy with the service APL had provided.
In responding to their complaint APL said the lenders rate changes had affected the deals 
available to Mr H and Mr P. But they acknowledged theyd made some mistakes. To put 
things right they offered to waive their fee of £1,795 and to pay compensation of £500 for 
any distress and inconvenience Mr H and Mr P had suffered if they agreed not to disclose 
the settlement. Since Mr H and Mr P werent happy with that, they brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator upheld Mr H and Mr Ps complaint. She took the view that, if their 
application had been correctly submitted by APL, they would have secured the borrowing 
they required at the 2.55% interest rate. She said APL should compensate them for the 
additional interest theyd pay until the younger of them reached the age of 85.
Since APL disagreed, Mr H and Mr Ps complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently 
issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally reached a similar outcome to our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. But the way in which I think it should be resolved is different in some respects. So, 
Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to provide any further 
comments they may wish to make before I reach a final decision.
Between Mr Ps initial contact with APL and his discussions with them on 29 September 
2021, some adjustments were made to the basis on which Mr H and Mr P originally planned 
to borrow. The available cashback changed, which affected the amount they needed to 
borrow. But Im satisfied the parties understood that day that Mr H and Mr P wanted to 
borrow around £111,790 at the 2.55% interest rate available at the time. APL agreed to 
issue a KFI on that basis. And Mr H and Mr P submitted their signed application recording 
those proposed terms on 30 September.
Even though there was a delay in Mr H and Mr P receiving the KFI until 6 October, I think its 
fair to say it related to the application theyd already sent in and should have been sent to 
them sooner. They understood theyd secured the 2.55% interest rate once theyd received 
the KFI. I think that was reasonable since it set out clearly, Interest is charged at a fixed rate 
which is currently 2.55%. We will hold the interest rate thats applicable on the day we 
receive your application for 14 weeks.
I can understand Mr H and Mr P were disappointed to receive an offer on 25 October which 
showed an interest rate of 3%. And I can understand too why Mr P felt under pressure to 
make a quick decision about whether to go ahead on that basis or borrow less at the 2.55% 
rate hed been expecting when he spoke to APL a few days later, given interest rates were 
about to rise again. 
APL have acknowledged they provided incorrect details about the property Mr H and Mr P 
were buying in the request theyd made to the lender for the KFI. But they dont think its fair 
to hold them responsible for financial losses Mr H and Mr P incurred. In summary, they say:
The KFI made clear it wasnt a legally binding mortgage offer 
Even if the request had been generated correctly, there was no guarantee Mr H and 
Mr P would have secured the 2.55% interest rate when the offer was produced later 
as it was always subject to the lenders underwriting process
The lender ought to have realised the mistake APL had made in the property details 
since information theyd provided previously had been correct
If the lender hadnt delayed dealing with the application and told them about the 
mistake sooner, APL could have produced a new request sooner and may have been 
able to take advantage of a lower interest rate before the second increase on 12 
OctoberIts not fair for APL to pay the difference in accrued interest over the estimated term 
of the plan between an offer that had been issued (£102,000 at 2.55%) and an offer 
whose terms could not have been predicted before Mr H and Mr Ps decision to 
withdraw their application
Even though the KFI wasnt a binding offer, it guaranteed the rate would be held at the level 
it was at when the application was submitted on 30 September. So, I think its fair to say the 
2.55% rate is likely to have been available to Mr H and Mr P subject to their application 
being successful. If APL had sent an accurate request for a KFI sooner, its likely Mr H and 
Mr P would have received a valid KFI at an interest rate of 2.55%.
I think its more likely than not Mr H and Mr Ps application would have led to an offer if the 
lender had considered it at the time. The lender issued three offers to Mr H and Mr P  one 
on 25 October, another on 2 November and a third when they applied through another 
broker. Whilst the amount of borrowing and interest rates varied, its seems Mr H and Mr P 
met the lenders other lending criteria.
Even if the lender made some mistakes as APL allege, I dont think its fair for APL to rely on 
them to avoid responsibility to Mr H and Mr P. The application was rejected because of 
mistakes APL made. It would be for APL to seek redress from the lender if they felt it had 
contributed in any way.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely, but for APLs mistakes, that Mr H and Mr P would 
have secured an offer from the lender to borrow £111,790 at the rate of 2.55%. In the end 
they accepted an offer from the same lender for £110,000 at the rate of 2.95% and 
completed on the loan on 28 January 2022.
Ive thought carefully about the basis on which its fair for APL to compensate Mr H and Mr P 
for the additional interest that will accrue to the mortgage they took. Ive looked at the 
information APL gathered about Mr H and Mr Ps preferences and priorities, the KFIs and 
the mortgage offers that were issued.
I think their key preferences and priorities were as follows:
Mr H and Mr P wanted fees to be added to the amount they were borrowing
Cashback was factored into the amount they were borrowing
A gilt based early repayment charge (ERC) was recommended on the basis it had 
the least impact on their estate
They had no intention of making any voluntary repayments to reduce the loan
They werent considering moving again
Mr H was 64 years old and Mr P was 60; their estimated life expectancy was 85
Based on the KFI dated 6 October, Mr H and Mr P intended to borrow £111,790 inclusive of 
a £5 arrangement fee at a fixed interest rate of 2.55%. Interest was illustrated on the basis of 
a 24 year term. Mr H and Mr P would have received £1,000 cashback. The ERC would have 
been payable until July 2052 and calculated by reference to the movement in gilt redemption 
yields, which could change. They would have had downsizing protection, which meant that if 
they decided to downsize and their new property didnt meet the lenders criteria they would 
have avoided paying an ERC. And they would have had the possibility of repaying up to 10% 
of the loan each year, which would have reduced the interest that accrued.
The offer issued in October didnt reflect the October KFI. The sum offered was lower; the 
interest rate was higher than expected; and the ERC terms were different. So, I think its 
reasonable to ignore it in considering the basis on which compensation should be paid.The offer issued in early November was for the lower amount, but inclusive of the £5 fee, at 
an interest rate of 2.55%. It offered a £500 cashback, downsizing protection and the 
possibility of making overpayments of 10% a year. Interest was illustrated on the basis of a 
24 year term. The ERC was payable until July 2052 and calculated by reference to gilt 
yields. Overpayments of up to 10% a year were allowed.
The offer issued in late November, which Mr H and Mr P accepted, was for borrowing of 
£110,000 at a rate of 2.95% with £1,000 cashback, downsizing protection and the possibility 
of making overpayments of up to 10% a year. Interest was illustrated on the basis of a 23 
year term. The ERC was payable until July 2052 and calculated by reference to gilt yields.
I think Mr H and Mr P would have accepted an offer to borrow £111,790 at an interest rate of 
2.55% if one had been made to them in line with the 6 October 2021 KFI. The offer they 
accepted was in similar terms, save that the amount was lower at £110,000.
Its difficult to predict how long the mortgage will run for. But since Mr H and Mr P took a 
mortgage based on an illustration of interest over a term of 23 years, I think its reasonable 
to assume it will run from completion on 28 January 2022 to 28 January 2045. Mr P, the 
younger borrower, will turn 85 later that year so its broadly in line with his life expectancy.
Although Mr H and Mr P have the opportunity of making 10% payments to reduce the loan 
each year, theyve said they dont intend to do that. And although theres the possibility of 
avoiding an ERC if the mortgage is repaid on downsizing, its not possible to predict if those 
circumstances will arise. Its perhaps more likely the mortgage would be transferred. But 
theyd still be tied into the mortgage and fixed interest rate if that happened. Im conscious 
Mr H and Mr P have said they dont intend to move again. So, on balance, I think its fair to 
assume they wont. Given the potentially substantial ERC, I think its unlikely they would 
choose to repay the mortgage during the term.
Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I think its fair that APL compensate Mr H and Mr P 
for the difference between
(1) the total interest that would have accrued to a mortgage of £111,790 at a rate of 
2.55% a year on a rolled up (compound) basis between 28 January 2022 and 28 
January 2045; and
(2) the total interest that will accrue to their mortgage of £110,000 at the rate of 
2.95% on the same basis and over the same period.
I recognise there is a benefit to Mr H and Mr P in receiving a lump sum interest payment now 
bearing in mind they may not have paid it for many years or at all. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand APL waived their arrangement fee. And Mr H and Mr P paid a lower amount to 
the broker who arranged the mortgage they entered into. So, they arent out of pocket there. 
But Mr Ps explained the impact on him and Mr H of the errors APL made. They were 
shocked to receive the offer of 25 October with a higher interest rate than theyd been 
expecting. Mr P felt under pressure to decide on the level of borrowing without having the 
chance to speak to Mr H. And they then realised they couldnt go ahead with borrowing the 
lower amount. They were inconvenienced by the mistakes APL made and felt it was 
necessary to get separate advice. Mr Ps described the sleepless nights he had at the time. 
And Mr H was upset APL required them to sign a non-disclosure agreement when they 
proposed terms to settle their complaint. Im mindful it took around three months for things to be resolved. Considering everything, I think the compensation APL proposed of £500 is fair 
to compensate Mr H and Mr P for the distress and inconvenience they suffered.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that APL should pay to Mr P and Mr H
1. the difference between
a) the total interest that would have accrued to a mortgage of £111,790 at a rate 
of 2.55% a year on a rolled up (compound) basis between 28 January 2022 
and 28 January 2045; and
b) the total interest that will accrue to their mortgage of £110,000 at the rate of 
2.95% on the same basis and over the same period; and
2. compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
In response to my provisional decision APL said they were prepared to make a 
compensation payment of £500. But they didnt think it was appropriate for them to pay 
redress in relation to interest on the basis Id provisionally proposed. 
APL explained the lender had never been in a position to offer to lend Mr H and Mr P 
£111,790 at 2.55%. So, they felt it was inappropriate to use those figures as a basis for 
calculating the redress. Theyd asked the lender recently to clarify the rate that would have 
been available had the correct property details been provided at the time of the enquiry. And 
the lender had said the best rate that was available to Mr H and Mr P was 2.62%.
APL calculated that if Mr H and Mr P had completed a plan based on an initial release of 
£111,790 with an interest rate of 2.62% they would have owed £202,646.54 after the 
estimated 23 year period. They said the amount they will owe on their current plan at the end 
of the same period will be £214,683.54. If APL made a lump sum payment to Mr H and Mr P 
of £6,350 towards their current plan at the end of the first year, the total balance after 23 
years would be £202,646.54. So that would put them back into the position they would have 
been in but for APLs mistake.
We put APLs proposal to Mr H and Mr P and told them we thought it was fair. They werent 
happy with the proposed redress and compensation for several reasons, which Ill 
summarise:
Theyd raised concerns that the application form was ambiguous at the time of 
completing it and APL had later confirmed theyd filled it in correctly
APL took over nine days to produce the KFI, much longer than previous ones, and 
did so only after Mr P had chased it 
Theyd received an offer at 2.55% and had agreed to go ahead on that basis
The 2.55% interest rate was a key factor in deciding to move house in the first place
The proposal doesnt allow for them living longer than 23 years
APL should have got the information about the available rate sooner and offered 
redress before now
£500 doesnt adequately compensate them for the time spent dealing with the 
complaint and they remain unhappy about being asked to sign a non-disclosure 
agreementWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the responses to my provisional decision. On reflection, I think 
APLs proposal in relation to redress is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The KFI made clear it wasnt a legally binding offer and didnt oblige the lender to provide     
Mr H and Mr P with the mortgage described in it. Based on what the lender has said, its 
unlikely they would have issued an offer to Mr H and Mr P for the £111,790 at 2.55% as I 
originally thought. But its likely they would have offered that amount at 2.62%.
Although Mr H and Mr P say they initially decided to move on the basis they would be paying 
interest at 2.55%, they went ahead at a much higher rate in the end. And, on balance, I think 
they would probably have accepted 2.62% if that had been offered at the time.
Since the mortgage could never have gone ahead for £111,790 at 2.55%, I dont think its 
fair to require APL to pay redress as if it would. Their proposal to pay Mr H and Mr P £6,350 
so they can reduce the mortgage balance by that amount at the end of the first year of their 
current mortgage  by 28 January 2023 - is reasonable. It will put Mr H and Mr P back into 
the same financial position they would have been in but for APLs mistakes. If Mr H and Mr P 
use it to reduce the balance of their mortgage, they will owe the same after 23 years as they 
would have owed if theyd borrowed £11,790 at 2.55% over the same period. 
Theres no bar on them reducing the mortgage in that way. Their mortgage allows them to 
make overpayments of up to 10% a year without incurring an ERC. If, however, they had to 
pay a fee or other charge when making the overpayment, Id expect APL to reimburse it, 
subject to evidence of payment. And, if APL dont make payment in time for Mr H and Mr P, 
acting reasonably promptly, to ensure the overpayment is made at the end of the first year of 
the mortgage, APL will need to adjust the amount they pay to make sure it does.
I explained in my provisional decision why I think its reasonable to assume the mortgage will 
run for 23 years. I see no reason to change my mind about that.
I acknowledge Mr H and Mr Ps strength of feeling about what happened and the time taken 
to resolve things. I took Mr H and Mr Ps concerns about APLs handling of the application 
into account when considering compensation. I appreciate its taken time to resolve the 
dispute since they complained to us. And APL could have made their offer sooner. But I 
think £500 compensation is fair even taking that into account. 
Putting things right
Bearing everything in mind, I think APL should pay Mr H and Mr P £6,350, or whatever sum 
is required at the time APL make payment, to put them into the position they would have 
been in had they completed a plan based on an initial release of £111,790 with an interest 
rate of 2.62%, plus any fees and charges they have to pay in making an overpayment to 
their mortgage, should they choose to do so, and compensation of £500. 
My final decision
I direct Age Partnership Limited to pay Mr H and Mr P 
1. The sum of £6,350, or whatever sum is required at the date of payment, to put them into the position they would have been in had they completed a plan based on an 
initial release of £111,790 with an interest rate of 2.62%; 
2. Any fee or other charge the lender requires Mr H and Mr P to pay to reduce their 
mortgage balance, subject to evidence of payment; and
3. Compensation of £500 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman