DRN-4100660
The complaint
Mr N complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr N applied for a credit card and associated balance transfer with 
MBNA. In his application Mr N said his income was around £31,000 a year and had rent 
costs of £350 a month that was paid to family. MBNA says it carried out a credit search and 
found monthly commitments of around £750 a month. MBNA also says it used essential 
living costs of around £475 a month and found Mr N had about £430 a month as disposable 
income. 
MBNA approved the credit card with a limit of £3,200 and hasnt increased it since. MBNA 
says that when the credit card was approved Mr N completed a balance transfer of £2,900 
against a credit limit of £3,200. 
Last year, Mr N complained that MBNA lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card 
application. MBNA issued a final response but didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. MBNA said it 
had carried out reasonable checks that were in line with its lending criteria when considering 
Mr Ns application. 
Mr N referred his complaint to this service and told us that at the time of his application he 
was regularly gambling and that MBNA wouldve found this if it had looked at his bank 
statements. Mr N forwarded his bank statements to verify what he told us. Our investigator 
didnt think MBNA had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr N asked to 
appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive taken our approach into account when reviewing Mr Ns complaint.  
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but the 
lender needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type 
and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit, the length of the lending relationship and the consumers circumstances.
As a lending relationship continues over time and the level of credit increases, lenders may 
need to obtain further information from a borrower to check whether theyre lending 
responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the customer.
In this case, MBNA asked Mr N for details of his income and used a monthly outgoings 
figure for affordability purposes. MBNA also took a rent figure from Mr N and used a regular 
outgoings figure of around £475 a month. In addition, MBNA carried out a credit search and 
found details of Mr Ns unsecured debt, using a monthly repayment figure of about £750. 
MBNA has provided evidence from its credit searches and doesnt show any evidence of 
missed payments, defaults or other adverse credit, so there were no obvious signs Mr N was 
struggling with his finances at this time. 
As Ive said above, theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete before approving a 
credit card  but the checks should be proportionate to the type and amount of borrowing 
offered. In my view, obtaining information from Mr N about his circumstances and finances 
that were used to calculate affordability and using the information on his credit file were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances of his application. Im not persuaded the 
information MBNA obtained shouldve caused it to carry out more comprehensive checks, 
like asking Mr N to provide evidence of his income or bank statements. 
Mr N has forwarded copies of his bank statements from the period he applied for the credit 
card and I can see they do show evidence of regular gambling. But as Ive explained above, 
Im satisfied MBNA used information that was proportionate when considering Mr Ns 
application. I havent been persuaded MBNA lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Ns 
credit card. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but as Im satisfied MBNA dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman