DRN-1690702
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc won't waive the early repayment charge (ERC) on 
his mortgage, in light of his circumstances. 
What happened
In June 2014 Mr M applied for a mortgage of £360,000 on a five-year fixed rate deal. In 
2015, he left his job and was financially impacted. Mr M was worried about maintaining his 
mortgage payments, but he didn't want to sell his property as he'd be liable for the full 
ERC of around £18,000. 
He discussed his circumstances with Clydesdale who granted him consent to let the 
property. Mr M found tenants and was able to maintain all but one month's payment. 
In September 2017 Mr M decided to sell his property, incurring an ERC of over £10,000. He 
feels this charge is excessive given his circumstances and thinks Clydesdale should have 
done more to help him.
Mr M also says that the mortgage was mis-sold to him because he shouldn't have been 
advised to commit to a five-year fixed rate product so soon after getting a new job.
Mr M complained to Clydesdale about the ERC charge. Clydesdale didn't uphold his 
complaint, so he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator looked into things and 
agreed the ERC had been applied fairly. Mr M didn't agree so the case has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I think our investigator has reached a 
fair outcome. Ill explain why.
Mr M has not complained to Clydesdale about any potential mis-sale of the mortgage. So, 
Clydesdale has not had the opportunity to investigate this part of the complaint. As such, I'm 
unable to comment on this as part of my decision. My decision will focus on whether it was 
fair for Clydesdale to apply the ERC. 
Mr M's says his circumstances changed around nine months after taking his mortgage. It's 
very unfortunate that he found himself in this position so soon after buying his home and I do 
empathise with his situation. It's clear Mr M made every effort to ensure his mortgage 
payments were maintained. He spoke to Clydesdale about his circumstances and some 
options were discussed. If Mr M were to sell his property, the highest tier ERC would apply. 
Mr M couldn't afford the charge. Clydesdale granted Mr M consent to let the property. In the 
circumstances I think this was fair. I say this because not all lenders offer this facility and this 
option allowed Mr M flexibility to keep his home until his circumstances improved. Mr M rented his property to tenants and says he made all but one payment on time.
Mr M says Clydesdale should have done more to help him in light of his circumstances. 
From what I can see, the property was let for around two years and Clydesdale was under 
the impression that the rental income was covering the mortgage payments. Unless Mr M 
expressed any further ongoing financial difficulty, Clydesdale would not be aware of his 
circumstances or be expected to do more. Only one payment was missed during the term of 
the mortgage. I dont think thats enough to suggest ongoing financial difficulty.
In 2017 Mr M decided to sell the property and an ERC of around £10,000 was applied. 
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. And Im satisfied that the 
ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which Mr M accepted when 
he took out the mortgage. So, it is difficult for me to say that Clydesdale cant apply the ERC 
that Mr M agreed to when he took out the mortgage. 
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a 
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within 
the benefit period. Under the rules it does not have to reflect the actual costs it has incurred 
on an individual mortgage  they might be more or less than the ERC. 
Mr M feels it's unfair that Clydesdale has benefited from the interest payments he made as 
well as the ERC. I need to consider what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances for both 
parties. The ERC forms part of the contract Mr M had with Clydesdale, so I can't say it's 
been unfair or unreasonable in applying the ERC. 
I do acknowledge that Mr M did make every attempt to maintain his mortgage payments 
without allowing the account to fall into arrears. And I'm glad to hear his circumstances have 
improved now. 
I've considered everything and believe Clydesdale acted fairly by granting Mr M consent to 
let. This meant Mr M didn't need to sell his property at the time and this option helped him 
during his period of financial difficulty. And for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
Clydesdale did anything wrong by applying the ERC at the time of sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman