DRN-2480842
The complaint
Mr N complains that he was unable to place an order to sell warrants issued by Morgan 
Stanley & Co. International Plc. He says this was because Morgan Stanley had terminated 
the warrants without giving him any notice, and he suffered financial losses as a result. 
What happened
Mr N held a complex financial instrument known as an exchange-traded warrant mini future 
issued by Morgan Stanley. 
On 16 April 2019, between 9am and 10.17am Central European Time (CET), Morgan 
Stanley did not provide live quotes for this warrant. Morgan Stanley has explained that this 
was due to a delay in the NASDAQ stock exchange processing its request to provide bid 
only quotes in this particular product. The issue was resolved at 10.17am CET, after which 
trading resumed. At 3.44pm CET the product experienced a knock-out event which led to it 
being terminated.
Mr N complained. He said that he had been unable to sell his warrants in this product during 
this time, and he suffered financial losses as a result. He asked for a total refund of his 
investment. 
Morgan Stanley looked into his complaint. It noted that Mr N hadnt tried to sell his warrants 
between 10.17am and 3.44pm when trading was taking place as normal. However, it offered 
to honour the prices it wouldve quoted between 9am and 10.17am if he was able to provide 
evidence of his attempts to sell during that time. 
Mr N provided evidence from his broker of his attempts to sell  but as the prices he had 
been trying to sell at were significantly higher than the sell prices Morgan Stanley wouldve 
quoted at that time, and throughout the day, it declined to offer compensation. In short, it 
concluded that even if it had quoted during that time, Mr N wouldve been unable to sell his 
warrants  so he hadnt suffered any financial loss from the brief suspension. 
Mr N didnt agree, and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint:
She didnt agree that not providing quotes between 9am and 10.17am was akin to 
terminating the product. She accepted Morgan Stanleys explanation for why it wasnt 
quoting during that time, and noted that quoting resumed as normal from 10.17am 
onwards. 
She also noted that the risk of quoting being suspended at certain times was 
highlighted in the prospectus for this particular product. 
She considered whether Mr N wouldve been able to sell his warrants between 9am 
and 10.17am if quoting hadnt been suspended. She concluded that based on the 
pricing evidence supplied by Morgan Stanley, he wouldnt have been able to sell his 
warrants anyway because the price he was trying to sell at was too high. 
She also took into account the fact that Mr N had tried to sell his warrants between 
2.44 and 2.51pm that day, when quoting had resumed. His sell orders still didnt go 
through because the prices he was trying to sell at were not available in the market. 
She said that this meant she wasnt persuaded by Mr N suggesting he wouldve been 
able to adjust his prices downwards to match buy orders in the market between 9am 
and 10.17am. 
She didnt agree Morgan Stanley manipulated the prices, and considered the 
evidence supported the fact that its pricing was fair and reflecting the underlying 
market. 
Overall she concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr N didnt agree. In summary, he said:
He contacted his broker that morning asking about his inability to place sell orders in 
this product and alleging what Morgan Stanley was doing was illegal. 
He reiterated that he wouldve adjusted his trades down if he had been able to trade 
between 9am and 10.17am  he said the orders he placed were test orders, and 
since they werent placed as there was no quoting during that time, they shouldnt be 
taken into account. 
He alleged that Morgan Stanley had deliberately sabotaged trading in this warrant 
and this directly caused his financial loss. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I should start by saying that I do understand Mr Ns frustration, and I sympathise with the 
reasons hes given for why he thinks Morgan Stanley has caused him a financial loss. Ive no 
doubt that attempting to trade such a volatile product and essentially being prevented from 
doing so for a period of time was frustrating. 
All that being said, however, Im not persuaded a full refund of the money he invested in this 
particular warrant would be fair either. After all, the possibility of Morgan Stanley not quoting 
a price in this product was known to him and outlined in the terms. Mr N was specifically 
warned that potential investors should not rely on the ability to sell Securities at a specific 
time or at a specific price. 
And importantly, in this case, the period during which Mr N was in fact unable to trade was 
brief and just over an hour long. What Mr N has also been unable to explain is why, from 
10.17am until 2.49pm he didnt attempt to trade at all. Morgan Stanley has confirmed that it 
was regularly quoting bid prices during this time, and Mr N wouldve been able to trade if he 
wanted to. This was a far longer period of trading than the brief morning suspension. So 
even if I thought Morgan Stanley treated him unfairly by not quoting bid prices that morning, 
in my view Mr N had ample time during the remainder of the day to trade. 
In any event, Morgan Stanley offered to honour Mr Ns attempted trades based on the bid 
prices that it wouldve quoted at that time. However, its clear from the evidence Mr N 
provided that his attempted trades were well above that price and wouldnt have been 
successful. Mr N has said that had he been able to trade he wouldve adjusted the sell prices 
in order to match potential buy orders  but Im not persuaded. As Ive said above, Mr N didnt trade at all until almost 3pm. Ive not seen a persuasive explanation as to why, and its 
clear to me that if Mr N was really intending to sell he wouldve used the many opportunities 
he wouldve had that afternoon to do so. 
In addition, when he did try to sell at 2.49, he again tried to sell at higher prices than were 
being offered in the market. I can see he tried to place 4 orders, and none of them were 
successful. He then made no further attempts, and could no longer do so once the knockout 
event occurred at 3.17pm. 
Ive placed particular weight on Mr Ns actions at the time, because I consider those actions 
to be the most persuasive evidence of his intentions. In my view, Mr N was attempting to 
ensure that he timed the market in such a way as to obtain the best possible price for 
himself. Whilst I can understand that being unable to trade for just over an hour in the 
morning hindered his ability to do this, I dont agree that it entirely prevented him from 
trading  nor am I persuaded that this is what caused his financial loss. 
Mr N had many hours in which he could continue to try to sell his warrants if he wanted to  
and the evidence shows that even at the end of the day, the prices he was trying to sell his 
warrants at were not available in the market. 
What ultimately caused his financial loss is the fact that he chose to keep hold of his 
warrants in order to achieve the best return  but unfortunately the knock-out event occurred 
before he was able to do so. Obviously this was a risk that Mr N had been willing to take 
when he invested in these warrants, and not something I can hold Morgan Stanley 
responsible for. 
Overall, Im satisfied that whilst there was a brief period during which Mr N was unable to 
trade, Morgan Stanley took all appropriate steps to put Mr N back in the position he wouldve 
been had he been able to trade that morning. And given Mr Ns actions later that day, Im 
satisfied that his financial loss wasnt in fact caused by his inability to trade just over an hour 
that morning. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman