DRN-3724640
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money she transferred to 
a fraudster.
Background
In June 2022, Miss T received a text message appearing to be advertising online jobs that 
could be completed at home, with salaries paid daily. Miss T has explained that in the 
previous two months, shed had a baby and found out shortly after that she wasnt entitled to 
maternity pay from her employer as shed believed she was. Miss T had therefore fallen into 
arrears on her rent while waiting for government funding and was trying to work freelance 
roles to pay for necessities. Her new-born child had also been unwell and was just home 
from a stay in hospital, but still requiring treatment. Miss T has explained her partner also 
wasnt working, so her wage had covered everything until this point.
The text message Miss T received coincided with her backdated government funding being 
provided, which she intended to use to pay her rent arrears. However, she responded 
positively to the text message in a bid to make some further money to cover essentials. Miss 
T spoke to someone who further explained the job role  put simply, she understood she 
would be boosting online product sales to earn commission. However, the lady she spoke to 
also explained that by adding additional money to her account, Miss T could receive higher 
commissions. Miss T has explained she was concerned at first to add any of her own 
money, but the advisor showed Miss T on her own account how it worked and Miss T saw 
what appeared to be higher commissions being earned. Reassured by this, Miss T made 
three transfers towards her account, totalling £260 and then received back £463 of 
perceived commission.
Encouraged by this, the following day Miss T made further payments towards the account 
while completing her work tasks for the day. However, her account kept going into a 
negative balance after payments and she was told the only way to make her commission 
and get her money was to make further payments. Miss T made four payments in all, 
totalling £1,913, but when she was asked for a further £1,700 which she couldnt afford to 
pay, Miss T was blocked from her account and she realised shed been the victim of a scam. 
She therefore contacted Monzo to raise a fraud claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Miss T feels she should be refunded and so has referred her complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought it ought to be upheld, with Monzo providing a full 
refund. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss T 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
The money was taken from Miss Ts current account. It is not clear how Miss T would 
have used her money differently if Monzo had refunded her when it should have 
done, so Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date it declined Miss Ts claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of payment.
The CRM Code requires firms to assess whether a customer was vulnerable to the APP 
scam they fell victim to at the time it occurred. The relevant sections state: 
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered. 
This should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. 
In these circumstances, the Customer should be reimbursed notwithstanding the provisions 
in R2(1), and whether or not the Firm had previously identified the Customer as vulnerable. 
[] 
Factors to consider include: 
(a) All Customers can be vulnerable to APP scams and vulnerability is dynamic. The 
reasons for dynamics of vulnerability may include: the personal circumstances of the 
Customer; the timing and nature of the APP scam itself; the capacity the Customer had to 
protect themselves; and the impact of the APP scam on that Customer
(b) A Customers personal circumstances which lead to vulnerability are varied, may be 
temporary or permanent, and may vary in severity over time 
(c) APP scams may include long-running APP scams or in the moment APP scams.
Here, Miss T was the victim of a scam that unfortunately preyed on her specific 
circumstances, at a time where she was clearly under a lot of pressure, both financially and 
emotionally. Having considered the combination of factors affecting Miss T at the time  her 
unexpected financial strains and lack of surrounding support, alongside her need to look 
after her new-born baby, who was also requiring additional medical support, Im persuaded 
this would have impacted Miss Ts capacity to think clearly about the scam while it was 
happening and made her more susceptible to falling victim to a scam of this nature. In short, I dont consider it would be reasonable to expect Miss T to have protected herself against 
the APP scam she fell victim to at that time.
I therefore consider that the fair and reasonable outcome here is that Monzo is responsible 
for reimbursing Miss T for her losses due to this scam  under the provisions of the CRM 
Code.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss T the £2,173 she lost to the scam, minus the £463 already recovered 
from the fraudster, totalling £1,710
Pay 8% simple interest per year, from the date Monzo declined Miss Ts claim under 
the CRM Code to the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman