DRN-1251841
 
complaint
Mr D says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr D took out a PPI policy in connection with his mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents available 
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to 
provide any documentation as these events happened many years ago.
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Santander didnt make Mr D aware the PPI was 
optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Santander wouldve 
made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though he 
may not remember that now, many years later. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr D. This meant Santander needed to take 
reasonable steps to find out about his needs and make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
I think Santanders recommendation was right for Mr D based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr D wasnt eligible for the policy. And it doesnt 
look like he wouldve been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, 
for example, any unusual employment terms or pre-existing medical conditions.Mr D said he wouldve got good sick pay initially. But Mr D told us it would not have 
been at his full rate of pay for a whole year. Mr D has told us he had some other 
means he could have relied on in that circumstance. But I note that Mr D decided not 
to protect those savings by not having a smaller mortgage or no mortgage at all. The 
PPI policy wouldve covered Mr D for up to 12 months if he couldnt work through 
accident or sickness, or if he lost his job, and it wouldve paid out in addition to any 
sick pay or redundancy payment he mightve got. The policy would also have further 
protected his savings and would have reduced his reliance on any help his family or 
partner may have been in a position to provide. So, considering all of this, and the 
potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on his home, I think 
Mr D couldve found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and it appears to have been affordable. 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr D.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr D, Santander also had to give him clear 
enough information about the policy, so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Santander gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont 
think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
I know Mr D feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. Its difficult to decide a complaint when I know so little about 
the sale. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think hes lost out because of 
anything Santander mayve done wrong during the sale. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman