DRN-2349540
The complaint
Ms G, who is represented by her son, Mr G, complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc (TFS) refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2018 Ms G acquired a new car costing £12,809 funded by deposit of £ 600 and the 
balance by a hire purchase agreement. In October 2019 the car suffered a major engine 
failure and was recovered to the dealer on a flatbed truck. I gather Ms G told Toyota that the 
car had been travelling at 30 mph when she heard a bang and the car stopped. The car was 
examined by a Toyota technician and a friend of Ms G who is a mechanic. It was agreed 
there had been a catastrophic failure with the engine being destroyed. 
The technician thought the damage must have been caused by an external force and 
suggested the car may have been towed while it was left in gear. The mechanic friend 
suggested that it had likely been caused by a failed timing belt. 
The warranty arm of Toyota said: Based on [the technicians] inspection, the images and 
the account of the customer we can say:
- The catastrophic damage to the cylinder head and pistons shows that the engine has been 
rotated for a substantial amount of time with a damage to all 3 pistons.
- In these conditions it's impossible that the engine was running under its own power. The 
engine would not operate if all 3 pistons spontaneously broke down.
- As per the customer's comments, it's impossible that this damage occurred by driving at 
30mph, hearing one bang and then stopping.
- Based on the above we will not cover the engine damage under warranty.
The likely cause of this damage is towing the vehicle whilst accidently leaving the car in 
gear. We have seen several examples of this over the years. 
It refused Ms Gs claim and TFS rejected her complaint so the matter was brought to this 
service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She said according to Ms G she hadnt encountered any problems with the car prior to the 
engine failure and the car hadnt been towed. She thought that TFS should be able to 
evidence the fault had been due to accidental damage or misuse. She referenced Ms Gs 
mechanic friends comments that there was no evidence the car had been towed.
She noted TFSs view that given the fault happened long after the point of sale that this 
indicated that there had been no inherent fault. She said that the car despite being 16 
months old it had only covered 9,000 miles and it was reasonable to expect it to be 
sufficiently durable to last a great deal longer. She concluded the car hadnt been sufficiently 
durable and on balance she recommended the complaint be upheld.
TFS didnt agree and submitted a detailed response from a representative from the dealer 
who had been present at the examination by the technician and the mechanic. He took a 
considered view and explained that the engine didnt have a timing belt and when the car 
was examined the best all present had noted that the chain was intact and the valve timing 
was correct at the point of disassembly.
He went on to say that the engine didnt simply break down, but it was totally destroyed. He 
added: The really interesting part for me was the fact that the piston pins, (Gudgeon pins) 
that were still attached to the connecting rods had run up and down the cylinder bores so 
much that they had worn a groove in the side of the bore. How did this happen? If the 
pistons had shattered then the engine would have stopped rotating as it could not run 
without pistons and yet this cylinder block have grooves in the cylinder bores which proves 
that the engine did continue to turn after the pistons had dropped into the sump despite it 
being impossible for it to run? This can only happen if the engine was being turned by an 
external force during its destruction.
He agreed that there was no evidence of a towing frame having been attached, but the small 
door in the front bumper had been opened. He said that this may have been when the car 
had been winched on to the towing truck or it may have been towed previously.
He said the damage could not have been caused simply by the car being driven at 30 mph 
and it must have been subject to some external force. However, he recognised that neither 
he, nor Ms Gs mechanic were disinterested parties and he suggested an independent 
inspection. Mr G agreed and an independent report was produced.
The report concludes the engine suffered catastrophic failure such that the cause could not 
be identified. He went on to say: It is the engineers opinion with the extent of the damage 
seen this has been caused by an outside influence due to the amount of damage witnessed, 
as this extensive damage would not have occurred at what is claimed to have been approx. 
30 mph. However, in the engineers opinion if the engine has been over revved by an 
incorrect down shift/gear selection this would have caused the catastrophic engine failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Toyota is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I consider this to be a finely balanced decision, but after long deliberation I have concluded 
the complaint should be upheld.
I put TFSs view to Mrs Gs mechanic who had inspected the car previously. He responded 
to say that he hadnt referred to the timing belt, but he had suspected the timing had jumped 
causing valve to piston contact resulting in engine failure. I have noted the mechanic had put 
his thoughts in writing shortly after the initial inspection and he said: In my opinion it is most 
likely a failed timing belt. 
I also asked Mrs G to set out what had happened when the car failed. She stated: 
On Sunday 27th October 2019 I was driving along [X road], which is narrow road in 30 to 40 
mph zone, in my 16-month-old car. When with no warning, the engine cut out with a loud 
bang. There was sounds of things breaking, and smoke coming out of the engine, with oil 
pouring out of the car. The car was then pushed with the help of strangers into [Y Road]. I 
can confirm that before this incident I have had no trouble with this car. In over 30 years of 
driving I have never ever had a[n] engine blow up.
Mr G says that nobody has been able to explain why the catastrophic fault happened and 
there have been a range of opinions. He confirmed the car had not been towed and the 
incident had happened on a busy road with a lot of traffic. His mother had over 30 years 
driving experience and she was adamant that she had not done anything to cause the fault.
I agree with Mr G that nobody has been able to say with certainty what caused the fault to 
occur. There have been several hypotheses, the most notable of which was that it was being 
towed. However, it was towed on to the flatbed truck and so any signs of a tow rope being 
attached can be attributed to that. I cant say I have seen evidence that the car was being 
towed when the fault happened. 
Mrs G is adamant that it wasnt and while I can see why the dealers engineer thought that 
would be a plausible explanation, I fear his view may have been shaped by his personal 
experience of having seen another car suffering a similar fate. I can see that it is a plausible 
explanation, but I am not persuaded it was the cause. 
I have also noted the consistent testimony of Mrs G in this regard. Mr G said that his mother 
had been quizzed by the dealer about her driving and if the car had been towed but had said 
that it hadnt even before she was aware of the implications of her answer.
The independent engineer said he couldnt confirm the original cause of the failure but 
thought it would have been caused by some external influence. He posited that it might have 
been over revved by an incorrect down shift.
The car suffered a catastrophic failure after only 16 months and 9,000 miles. Such events 
are not expected and a car should last much longer than this one did. Given the unusual 
nature I can see engineers have looked for some exceptional reason and suggested some 
outside force led to the catastrophic event. This has led to the suggestion that some kind of 
user error lay behind the fault. 
I accept that this is possible and I must say I found the arguments put forward by both TFS 
and the dealer to be clear and well reasoned. I accept the car covered a fair mileage in 16 
months, but if anything it was on the low side. It had not suffered any issues previously and this adds weight to the argument that it was fit for purpose at the point of sale. However, it 
also has to be durable and I dont believe it can be accepted that it should suffer such a fault 
after 16 months. As I have concluded no clear acceptable reason has been given for the 
fault, on the balance of probabilities, I believe it is more than likely that there must have been 
some inherent issue which contributed to it.
Putting things right
 TFS should allow Mrs G to reject the car.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Toyota Financial Services (UK) 
Plc to:
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Miss G
refund the total deposit set out in the agreement plus annual interest at 8% simple 
from the date paid to the date repaid. 
remove information about the agreement from Miss G's credit file
refund the instalments that Miss G has paid, at a pro-rata rate where necessary, 
since the car's engine failed plus annual interest at 8% simple
cover any storage costs if requested by the dealership
pay £250 to Miss G for the trouble and upset that this matter has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman