DRN-2853873
The complaint
Mr B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out two instalment loans from Loans 2 Go. A summary of his borrowing follows. 
Loan 2 repaid loan 1 in part.
loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £total 
repayable, 
£
1 21/10/2018 250 18 56.64 1,019.52
2 12/02/2019 433.52 18 99.08 1,783.44
Mr B says if Loans 2 Go had carried out better checks it would have seen he already had a 
lot of money problems. He also complains that the interest rate on the loans was grossly 
excessive. 
Our investigator said the lenders checks were proportionate, but that loan 2 should not have 
been given based on the results of these checks.
Loans 2 Go disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. It said that it understood the 
investigator thought the results of the credit check for loan 2 ought to have led it to complete 
further checks. But it didnt feel it needed to do this as the credit check showed Mr B had 
largely settled the new loans he had taken out and all his active borrowing was up-to-date. 
For clarity, our investigator did not say further checks were needed, rather that Loans 2 Go 
did not make a fair lending decision based on the results of the second credit check. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr B required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Bs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make fair lending decisions?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loans. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It verified his declared income using a third-
party income verification tool. It increased his declared expenditure to ensure it was 
reasonable based on national statistics. For both loans it checked Mr Bs credit file to 
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks 
combined Loans 2 Go concluded Mr B had enough disposable income for each loan to be 
affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loans and their
repayments. And I havent seen anything in the checks the lender did for loan 1 that I think 
should have led it to decline the loan. But based on the information it gathered for loan 2 I 
think Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Mr B. Ill explain why I have reached these 
conclusions.
Loan 1
Mr Bs declared income was £1,400 and his adjusted expenditure, including a 10% buffer for 
any unplanned expenses, was £1,103.33. Given the repayment of £56.64 was a small 
percentage of his declared income, the fact he was left with £240.03 of monthly disposable 
income, and his credit file showed he had no other active credit at the time, I think it was fair 
and reasonable to conclude Mr B could sustainably afford loan 1. I note there was some 
adverse information (missed payments and defaults) on his credit file, but this was historic 
(from 2015 and 2016) and the debts had since been settled. So I dont think the lender ought 
to have been concerned that Mr Bs finances were under any pressure in October 2018. It follows I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr B.
Loan 2
Mr B returned to borrow again less than four months later. The credit check Loans 2 Go 
carried out showed Mr B had taken out four payday loans in that time, one remained active. 
He had also opened a mail order account a month earlier and was already close to his credit 
limit. And he had taken out another loan for £850 on the same date hed applied for loan 1. 
He was also now using his overdraft facility (he wasnt at the time of loan 1) and was only £1 
under his limit.
Loans 2 Go argues these facts were not a reason not to lend as Mr B had settled most of the 
payday loans and was up-to-date on the other credit. But I dont think thats a reasonable 
interpretation of the results of his credit check. I think its more likely Mr B was in a cycle of 
debt, only repaying his short-term loans by borrowing to do so. By giving loan 2 the lender 
was approving Mr Bs seventh line of credit in less than four months  so I think it ought to 
have realised it was most likely his finances were under pressure. And there was a risk he 
would be unable to repay loan 2 without borrowing to do so or suffering some other financial 
harm. And as Loans 2 Go knows it had to check the sustainability of the borrowing, not just 
the pounds and pence affordability.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr B.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr B says the interest rate was grossly excessive. I accept the APR was high, but Mr B had 
to actively engage in the application process, so I think its likely that he was aware of what 
he was agreeing to pay. I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go 
treated Mr B unfairly or breached industry practice regarding interest charges. The interest 
and charges on loan 2 will be refunded as Ive concluded that loan shouldnt have been 
given. 
Putting things right for loan 2
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the capital that he borrowed because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on one loan that 
shouldnt have been provided to him.
So Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs second loan account will result in him having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Bs second loan account will leave an outstanding capital balance 
Loans 2 Go must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint in part in relation to loan 2. Loans 2 Go Limited must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman