DRN-3842622
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) irresponsibly gave her two 
credit card accounts that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 5 February 2019, the first credit card account that Mrs O is complaining about was 
opened by Capital One with an initial credit limit of £200. This credit limit was never 
increased. Although two other cards were consolidated into this account later. 
On 21 June 2021, the second credit card account that Mrs O has complained about was 
opened by Capital One with an initial credit limit of £400. This credit limit was never 
increased. 
In 2022, Mrs O complained to Capital One to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened because they werent affordable and that Capital One ought to have made a better 
effort to understand her financial circumstances before opening the credit card. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs O didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Os complaint is that Capital One made credit available that was unaffordable. Capital 
One has explained that it relied in part on information that Mrs O provided at the time of 
each application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mrs Os 
name to assess Mrs Os level of debt at each time and to understand how she had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Capital One 
decided to agree to the credit limits of £200 and £400. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the lending decisions. But Im not sure that more searching 
enquiries would have put Capital One off providing the credit they did. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest for each credit card account and the 
maximum monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. And the Capital One 
checks showed that Mrs O had only a modest amount of other borrowings compared to her 
declared income. 
And at the time of the second account Capital One had Mrs Os management of her existing 
account to consider in its lending decision. I have seen nothing in Mrs Os management of 
that account that would have put Capital One off providing the next credit card account with 
such a modest credit limit.
I have noted that Mrs Os credit file was not completely clean at the time of the lending 
decisions. Capital Ones credit checks had shown a default in the previous 24 months at the 
time of each lending decision. And there was a CCJ recorded against Mrs O just after the 
first lending decision and over two years before the second. Whilst the credit picture was not 
entirely clean, there was, I think, insufficient to put Capital One off providing Mrs O with 
credit. And the credit file probably explains why the opening credit limits were so modest.
I have to look at the information that was available to Capital One at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that Capital One had acquired or had presented to it at the time of the 
lending decision, would have led them to think that the relatively modest credit they were 
offering was unreasonable on either occasion. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Capital One provided to Mrs O was unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman