DRN-3793315
The complaint
Miss G, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC, lent to her when she 
could not afford it.
What happened
Using information from Miss Gs representative and from Morses records, here is a brief loan 
table. The loans have all been paid. The repayment for each loan was £15 a week for 34 or 
35 weeks. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest
1 7/12/2020 20/5/2021 £300 £210
2 20/5/2021 22/11/2021 £300 £225
3 22/11/2021 07/05/2022 £300 £225
After Miss G had complained, Morses sent to her representative its final response letter
(FRL) in which it gave reasons why it did not think it had lent irresponsibly.
Miss G referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our
adjudicators looked at it and thought that Morses had done all it needed to and had done
nothing wrong.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 11 November 2022, I issued a 
provisional decision (duplicated in the next section) in which I gave reasons why I 
considered that Morses ought not to have lent to Miss G at all. I gave time for the parties to 
respond. We have not heard from miss G but Morses has emailed us to say that it agrees 
with my provisional decision.
So it seems appropriate to issue the final determination which is the same as the provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost, short-term and home
credit lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss G could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have considered a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Miss Gs income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done more to establish
that any lending was sustainable for Miss G. These factors include:
Miss G having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss G having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss G coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss G.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss G could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss G was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
my provisional findings  duplicated in smaller type
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and thought 
about what this means for Miss Gs complaint. And I am planning to uphold it as the credit search 
Morses carried out on 7 December 2020 showed that Miss G had a significant debt, a large part of 
which was either on defaulted accounts or were delinquent. And these developments had been as 
recently as a month before Miss G applied for the Morses loan.
That credit search showed Morses that Miss G had 16 active SHARE records with a total debt of 
£5,279 of which at least £3,128 was delinquent debt (of which £1,258 were defaulted accounts). That 
translates into 59% of her total debt which were accounts under stress in that she was in serious 
arrears or they had been defaulted.
The latest default had been four months before and she had had three in the previous 12 months. In 
addition, the latest delinquency had been the month before approaching Morses.
So, despite Miss Gs application to Morses for loan 1 being relatively modest at £300 then I think that 
it knew she was having real trouble managing her other accounts. And although I understand that 
Morses often does lend to customers with a poor credit record, this record for Miss G was current, 
meaning the recent debts were very proximate.
An example of some of the credit search records is set out below, and I use these as they are in the 
same sector as that to which Morses belongs:
Number of Delinquent Accounts in Home Credit Sector 4
Total Value of Delinquent Accounts in Home Credit Sector £1870
Months Since last Delinquency in Home Credit Sector 10
And so I dont think Morses should have lent to Miss G at all and I uphold her complaint as the loans 
which followed in relatively quick succession after loan 1 would not likely to have been at a time when Miss Gs debt situation had radically altered. Additional loans would have just added to her increasing 
debt situation.
And I note from the repayment records Morses sent to us that on each occasion Miss G asked 
Morses for more she had not repaid the earlier loan and the new loan went towards repaying the 
earlier loan.
My final determination
 
As Morses has agreed to the provisional decision findings then I have no reason to depart 
from those. They are repeated as part of the final decision and I uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had not lent to Miss G at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss G may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere, and if this wasnt a viable option, they
may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even
possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss G in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Miss G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss G loans 1 to 3.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards interest,
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss G
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss G originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Miss G the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should amend Miss Gs credit file record to remove any adverse payment
information.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint and I direct that Morses Club PLC does 
as I have outlined in the putting things right part of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman