DRN-3218541
The complaint
Mr D complained when Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard registered a default 
with the credit reference agencies because of arrears resulting from the impact of the global 
pandemic.
What happened
Mr D held a credit card account with Barclaycard. He contacted Barclaycard in April 2020 as 
his financial circumstances had been impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. He 
applied for a payment holiday on his account. Barclaycard agreed his application and 
provided payment holidays for six months between April and September 2020.
Mr D requested a further payment holiday in September 2020. But Barclaycard didnt agree 
to this. So, Mr D needed to meet at least his minimum monthly payments thereafter. 
Barclaycard took details of Mr Ds income and expenditure which showed that he couldnt 
afford his payments. So, they placed his account on hold for 30 days so that he could review 
his finances and obtain independent advice. 
Mr D met the next contracted payment due in November 2020. However, due to his financial 
situation, he contacted a debt management company for advice and support. The debt 
management company wrote to Barclaycard in December 2020. A reduced repayment 
solution was agreed. But this was for less than the minimum amount required under the 
terms of the Barclaycard agreement. So, Barclaycard issued a default notice to Mr D on 14 
December 2020. They said he needed to bring his account up to date by 16 February 2020.
Unfortunately, Mr D wasnt able to make the contractual payments as requested. So, 
Barclaycard placed his account into default and recorded this with the credit reference 
agencies. They also stopped any further interest and fees and issued a formal demand letter 
for the balance owed.
Mr D wasnt happy with Barclaycards actions here, so he complained to them. He thought 
theyd hadnt treated him fairly, particularly as his circumstances were as a result of the 
global pandemic. He wanted them to remove any adverse data reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
Barclaycard didnt agree theyd acted unfairly. They said that because the payments offered 
were for less than the contracted amount, this meant his account had breached their terms 
and conditions and defaulted, which was registered with the credit reference agencies.
Mr D wasnt happy with Barclaycards response to his complaint. So, he asked this service to 
investigate matters for him. Our adjudicator didnt think that Barclaycard had treated Mr D 
unfairly. She also didnt think they should remove the information theyd reported to the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator. So, his complaint has been referred to me in order to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.  
Further guidance issued by the FCA on 1 July 2020 extended these measures, and where 
consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised to 
freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months. 
Barclaycard followed all of the FCAs guidance in Mr Ds case. Unfortunately, no provision 
has been made within the guidance to extend a payment deferral beyond the six months 
suggested by the FCA. So, Barclaycard werent required to provide a further payment 
deferral to Mr D. 
Mr D was clearly still financially impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. Barclaycard 
were aware of that. When Mr D asked for a further deferral, Barclaycard completed an 
assessment of his income and expenditure in order to better understand Mr Ds situation. I 
believe that was the right thing to do here. It showed that Mr D wasnt able to meet his 
contractual payments. So, they provided 30 days for him to seek advice and support and 
suspended any interest and charges. I think this is a sensible approach in these 
circumstances.
Barclaycard didnt hear back from Mr D after the 30 days, but they did see that he managed 
to make his contractual payment in November. So, I dont think Barclaycard would be 
expected to do anything more at this stage.
The debt management company who contacted Barclaycard on Mr Ds behalf offered a 
reduced amount each month. This was less than the contracted amount. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) were involved in drawing up the Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. They explain whats 
required from a lender in these circumstances. Section three of the principles says If your 
lender does not agree a reduced or revised payment with you because the amount you offer 
to the lender is not acceptable, for example, a very low or token payment, the account will 
not be reported as an arrangement or a debt management programme negotiated by a third 
party. Any payments you make will be reflected in the current balance, arrears will continue 
to accrue, and a default may be recorded. 
The offer made on behalf of Mr D was for less than the minimum contracted amount. So, this 
breached Barclaycards credit card agreement. I believe Barclaycard were entitled to issue a 
default notice to Mr D because of that. Thats what they did here. They were also required to 
report any default to the credit reference agencies. 
I do appreciate that Mr Ds circumstances resulted from the impact of the global pandemic. 
Im sure this has been very frustrating and distressing for him. And I realise Mr D will be 
disappointed, but I cant reasonably say that Barclaycard did anything wrong here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman