DRN-2953292
The complaint
Miss W complains about advice she received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
relation to a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed 
the transfer of Miss Ws OPS benefits on an insistent client basis to a personal pension. 
Portal recommended the new pension provider as well as how Miss Ws pensions savings 
should be apportioned within her new portfolio.
Miss W is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Miss W.
What happened
In late 2016, Portal sent Miss W a form inviting her for a pension review. Miss W signed and 
returned this form on 21 November 2016, giving Portal authority to gather information about 
her existing pensions.
Portal gathered information and, in September 2017, it completed a pension transfer 
analysis, or transfer value analysis (TVAS), and produced a report. Although this document 
says it was prepared for Miss W, I havent seen anything in the correspondence 
subsequently sent to her to suggest it was actually shared with Miss W. The report stated it 
was designed to assist in deciding whether a transfer from Miss Ws OPS was appropriate. It 
included details of the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the OPS, which was quoted 
as £45,184.67. It also gave details of the critical yield (CY) - the growth rate required of a 
new pension to allow Miss W to purchase an annuity that would match the guaranteed 
benefits of her OPS. It said, for retiring at age 65, the CY was 15.1% if Miss W took a full 
pension or 12.4% if she were to take tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. It also 
looked at the CY if Miss W were to take retirement benefits at age 57. And it provided cash 
flow modelling projections, for retirement at ages 65 and 57.
On 6 October 2017, Portal sent Miss W a letter titled We are ready to complete your 
pension release review. This started by saying We have all the information we need from 
your current pension providers, which is great news. And we can confirm that the maximum 
tax-free amount you could now access from your pensions is £11,453. It went on to say that 
it now needed to arrange a conversation between Miss W and one of its paraplanners to get 
to know her better and gather information about her circumstances. The letter said The 
conversation will cover a range of topics including: the pension options available to you; your 
current financial needs and future plans; your health; your attitude to investment risk for your 
pension fund; and, of course, the amount of tax-free cash you wish to take. And it told Miss 
W how to get in touch to arrange this discussion. 
The letter went on to note as a PS (the underlined sections having been emphasised in bold 
by Portal) The transfer value of your pension is guaranteed for a limited period of time only. 
If your pension has not been transferred by the time this guarantee expires then we will need 
to recalculate its value before the transfer can be completed. This could delay how long it will 
take to receive your tax-free cash. Lastly the letter included an information sheet noting the 
current value of Miss Ws existing pensions and explaining more about some of the options 
Portal would discuss.
I understand a conversation subsequently took place on 12 October 2017, where Portal 
gathered information about Miss Ws circumstances and objectives. The fact find document 
it recorded at the time said she was 55, employed full time, co-habiting in a rented property 
and that she didnt own her own home. Miss W was recorded as having approximately 
£1,000 in unsecured debts, which appeared to be due to be repaid within the next few 
months. It was also noted that she was discharged from an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) approximately a year earlier.
The income and expenditure information recorded indicated, after standard living expenses, 
she had approximately £730 per month left over. But it was noted her miscellaneous 
expenditure matched this surplus, as she was supporting her daughter. So, it was recorded 
that she in fact had no disposable income. The fact find said Miss W had a need for tax free 
cash in order to provide further financial support to her daughter and help her move house - 
as her daughter was in a difficult domestic situation and Miss W wanted to be sure of her 
and her granddaughters safety. It said she needed £8,000 for this purpose and any residual 
TFC would be used to buy a newer car. Portal also carried out an assessment of Miss Ws 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious.
Portal then sent Miss W a further letter on 23 October 2017. This said Since our 
conversation we have completed our initial phase of research and analysis and we strongly 
recommend that you do not transfer your [OPS] pension and instead leave them where they 
are because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be giving up with the underlined section 
again emphasised in bold text by Portal. The letter then immediately followed this up by 
saying;
What happens if you still want to go ahead and transfer your funds?
This is absolutely your decision. Everyones circumstances are different and if you decide 
you still want to transfer your [OPS] pensions to a new scheme to release tax-free cash then 
this is something we can help you with. In this instance we would need to treat you as an 
insistent client throughout your pension review.
The letter also included an options form for Miss W to complete. The first option given was 
for Miss W to Disregard our recommendation and continue as an insistent client. With the 
second being to accept Portals recommendation and end the pension review.
An insistent client form was also included for Miss W to complete. This comprised three 
declarations for Miss W to tick and agree to. These declarations;
acknowledged the critical yield was unlikely to be achieved and included a brief 
summary of the projected benefits due under her existing scheme at age 65 that 
shed be giving up,
set out briefly what shed receive instead by transferring  the TFC figure and the 
potential income she might be able to obtain post retirement  and that shed have no 
entitlement to any further TFC,
acknowledged that transferring was against Portals recommendation.
There was also a section for Miss W to explain in her own words why she wanted to be an 
insistent client.
Miss W completed and returned the forms saying she wished to proceed as an insistent 
client, on the same day. In the section of the form to explain in her own words why, Miss W 
wrote I understand about taking the tax free sum, and what effects it has on me. I need this 
money for my family. It will help a great deal. I have spoken and explained everything to my 
family and they are in agreement. This will take a lot of pressure off me and make my life easier. I am also paying £150 a month into my work pension and they match 5%. So I am 
happy with this. This request is urgent. I need my money as soon as possible please.
Portal then sent Miss W a suitability report on 10 November 2017. The covering letter said;
Thank you for all of the information you have provided regarding your pension. Having 
considered your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are delighted to 
recommend:
Transferring your pension to an [new provider] pension plan.
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will receive your tax-free lump sum of £11,453.
We will manage your remaining pension fund, with the aim of maximising its 
performance.
We will review your pension annually, to make sure it is on track to delivering as 
intended.
The suitability report itself said Miss Ws objectives were to help her daughter financially and 
to buy a car. It said it had already recommended that Miss W not transfer. But, as she had 
chosen to proceed as an insistent client, it was recommending a transfer to a specific plan 
because this would allow her to take TFC and meet her objectives while not requiring her to 
take an income  which it said Miss W didnt want. The report went on to recommend a 
specific portfolio mix, with the new provider, which Portal felt was right for Miss W. The 
report also covered, in the additional important information section after the recommendation 
was made, that Portal believed there was no other viable way of raising the money Miss W 
needed. It said this was because she didnt want to take a loan or pay additional interest, 
didnt own a property in order to take a mortgage, didnt have other assets and didnt have 
enough disposable income.
Miss W completed the application forms  which included a further declaration 
acknowledging she was proceeding as an insistent client  and the transfer went ahead on 
the basis of this recommendation.
Miss W complained to Portal in June 2020 that the advice shed been given was unsuitable. 
She said when shed spoken to Portal it had said it would first be recommending against the 
transfer as a matter of procedure but would then go on to help her with the transfer. So, she 
thought the advice was always to transfer. She said Portal didnt do enough to explain what 
she was giving up and why it wasnt recommending she do so. And she thinks this was 
because it wasnt actually recommending against the transfer  because if it was, it wouldnt 
have offered to assist her. She also said it hadnt been made clear to her how her pension 
savings would be invested  specifically that a significant portion was invested in stocks and 
shares. Miss W said shed become so alarmed when she found this out, as she considered it 
to be high risk, shed drawn down the remainder of her fund to prevent herself being left with 
nothing.
Portal didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had advised Miss W against 
transferring. But she had insisted on doing so  and made it clear through the documentation 
shed completed that she understood this. So, it had helped on this basis, subsequently 
making a recommendation it felt was suitable. It said it had acted in line with the regulators 
requirements when doing so and that Miss W had a genuine need to release TFC
The complaint was then referred to our service. Miss W has since said, on the point of 
needing access to TFC, she did have a need for a set amount of money to assist her daughter (£8,000). But this was less than the TFC that was released, so she hadnt needed 
the full amount. And she said there were other options available to her  including a loan. 
This wouldve had a high interest rate due to her previous IVA. But that was why she 
approached Portal  for impartial advice before deciding how to obtain the money, not with 
taking TFC as an unchangeable objective.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I intended to uphold Miss 
Ws complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why I thought 
this.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Suitability of advice
Portal has argued that the advice it gave was suitable. This is because it says it 
recommended that Miss W not transfer her pension, but she was insistent that she wanted 
to. And when this was clear, it recommended an appropriate pension. But for the reasons Ill 
explain, I think Portals advice was incomplete and the process it followed misleading. Which 
I think means Miss W did not have enough information to make an informed decision.
COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Miss W. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Miss W so that it could 
understand the essential facts about her and have a reasonable basis for believing its 
recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives and that she had the necessary experience and knowledge 
to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when 
the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison and its 
advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
In short, Portal needed to start with the assumption a transfer would be unsuitable. It needed 
to consider Miss Ws specific circumstances and objectives, assess the options available 
and look at what was in her best interests. It needed to provide a comparison highlighting the 
risks. And it needed to make sure that Miss W understood all of this information, having 
regard for her level of experience and knowledge, so that she could make an informed 
decision. All while ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
The letter Portal sent to Miss W on 6 October 2017 was headed We are ready to complete 
your pension release review. And the first paragraph included the statement we can 
confirm that the maximum tax-free amount you could now access from your pensions is 
£11,453. It went on to say a call would have to now take place to understand Miss Ws 
circumstances and that options would be discussed including of course, the amount of tax- 
free cash you wish to take. And it also said, in fact emphasising in bold, that the transfer 
value is guaranteed for a limited period of time only and if this needed to be re-calculated 
This could delay how long it will take to receive your tax-free cash.
This letter was sent before a fact-finding conversation had been completed or any details of 
Miss Ws aims or objectives had been obtained. Yet it was already strongly emphasising the 
release of tax free cash  involving a change to Miss Ws current pension arrangements  
how much could be released and suggesting a need for urgency. I think the contents of this 
letter suggests the approach already being skewed to a particular outcome. I dont think this 
was in line with the requirement to start by assuming the transfer was unsuitable.
And I dont think the emphasis placed on this outcome, before any fact finding had taken 
place, was fair to Miss W or could be said to demonstrate Portal was acting in her best 
interests. And I think the content of this letter was likely to affect Miss Ws thinking and 
reasonably lead her to think at that stage Portal was suggesting this option.
Portal did then complete a fact finding call. But the emphasis of the information recorded in 
the fact find was, in my view, the release of TFC above all else. There is very little by way of 
information about Miss Ws income needs in retirement. Indeed, the only mention of this 
seems to be one question saying How much in todays money will you need when you 
retire? which was answered unsure. The primary purpose of a pension is to provide 
benefits in retirement. So, the lack of any real consideration of Miss Ws retirement needs 
make it difficult to say that enough essential information was obtained to make a suitable 
recommendation. And the repeated emphasis within some of the questions around the need 
for TFC could very well have led Miss W into thinking that this what Portal thought was best.
The bigger issue in my view though is the correspondence that then followed the fact find. 
The next correspondence Portal sent Miss W was a letter on 23 October 2017 called 
Important news about taking money early from your pension  again placing emphasis on 
withdrawing money from the pension. This went on to say that, after completing its initial 
phase of research Portal strongly recommend that you do not transfer. So, this is the 
document which summarised Portals advice and personal recommendation to Miss W. And 
in my view, shouldve made it clear that it had understood enough about Miss Ws 
circumstances for Portal to believe its advice was suitable. And provided comparisons, or 
detailed information, in order for Miss W to make an informed opinion. But there was no 
further reason given in the letter itself for this recommendation or why Portal had reached 
this conclusion.There was an attachment to the letter called Overview of your pensions. And this gave the 
only additional explanation of the recommendation by saying If you transfer out of this 
scheme now then any new pension would need to grow at a rate of 12.40% per year to at 
least match these benefits (the technical term for this rate is the critical yield). We just do not 
think this is achievable. Suggesting this was the reason for the recommendation made. But 
again, there was no further explanation or reasoning.
I think Portal was correct that the required critical yield was unlikely to be achievable. And 
this meant that a transfer was not financially viable. But this isnt the only thing Id have 
expected Portal to take into account before making a personal recommendation. The critical 
yield is important, and a strong indicator of whether retirement benefits are likely to be better 
or not by transferring. But this isnt the only consideration for whether advice is suitable.
There can be reasons that it is in a consumers best interests to make a transfer, even if their 
retirement benefits will be lower. And Id have expected to see some consideration of these 
as Portal was making a personal recommendation to Miss W. And for these considerations 
to be explained to Miss W so that she could make an informed decision, But Portals 
recommendation contained no reference to Miss Ws objectives or circumstances. It was 
reiterated that her pensions were worth a certain amount, from which she could take 25% 
TFC. But there was no exploration or commentary relating to how much of this was needed 
or why. And this was despite the fact find recording and supporting that only approximately 
£8,000 of this was a genuine need.
There was also no assessment provided at that point setting out what alternative ways of 
raising the required money had been considered, or why these had been discounted. The 
options of raising money through credit werent commented on at that stage. And so, dont 
appear to have formed any part of Portals reasoning when it said it recommended not to 
transfer.
There also doesnt seem to have been any consideration to Miss W taking benefits under 
her existing scheme at that time. As Ive said, I acknowledge a TVAS was carried out. But 
none of the information Ive seen indicates this was shared with Miss W. Neither of the 
letters sent on 6 and 23 October 2017 make any reference to the information within the 
TVAS, beyond the critical yield, or to it being included for review. And I havent seen any 
other evidence that it was shared. So, I cant reasonably say that Miss W had the opportunity 
to review this document.
In any event though, it didnt look at the potential for immediate retirement. Miss W was 55. 
And in the scheme information section of the TVAS report, it was noted that 55 was the 
earliest retirement age allowed by the scheme. So, it appears she was eligible to take 
benefits under the DB scheme at that point. But that doesnt appear to have been talked 
about at any stage of the advice process. Indeed, the TVAS report looked at what Miss W 
would be able to take at age 57, as well as the assumed scheme retirement age of 65. But 
Ive seen no reason for this or why instead it didnt cover what could be taken at age 55.
The TVAS report indicated that at age 57 Miss W wouldve been able to take TFC of 
£10,303 under the DB scheme and then receive a guaranteed escalating income of £1,505 
per year. If shed taken benefits at age 55, these figures would likely have been lower. But I 
think it is reasonable to assume that the TFC wouldve been enough to provide the amount 
Miss W needed to assist her daughter  which appears to be her genuine area of need. And 
shed have then received a guaranteed escalating income. But again, Ive seen no evidence 
that this option was considered or discussed with Miss W.
The Overview of your pensions document portal included with the letter did mention that 
the projected benefits Miss W could potentially take by staying in her existing scheme until age 65 were a pension of £2,496 per year and TFC of £16,640. But there was no 
comparison within the recommendation between this and what Miss W may potentially 
receive by transferring (aside from immediate TFC).
Without any of this information, or indeed any real reasoning being provided in writing for 
why Portal didnt recommend Miss W transfer, I dont see that Miss W could reasonably 
have understood why this was apparently Portals advice. So, I dont think Portal provided 
full and clear advice to Miss W. And as a result, I dont think she was in a position to make 
an informed decision  about the transfer or about being an insistent client. And so, I dont 
think the advice given by Portal, was suitable.
Insistent Client
Despite the advice being, in my view, incomplete and unsuitable, I think Portal then also 
directed Miss W towards disregarding it anyway. Immediately after saying it didnt 
recommend transferring, in the next paragraph of the same letter, Portal promoted the option 
of still releasing money from Miss Ws pension as being something it could assist with. I 
dont think that was appropriate or in Miss Ws best interests  particularly if Portal truly 
considered not transferring to be suitable.
Portal also enclosed forms, with the same letter for Miss W to complete, in order to go 
against this advice. And indeed, the options letter listed disregarding advice as the first 
options available to Miss W. I also dont think this was appropriate. If Portals advice was not 
to transfer, I believe it shouldve given this advice and the reasons why and left it to Miss W 
to consider this further. If she had then contacted it to see if it could still help, then itd have 
been fair to share this information. But to promote this option at the point it did seriously 
undermined the recommendation it says it was making.
I do acknowledge that the forms Portal provided included a section for Miss W to complete in 
her own words to explain why she wanted to transfer. And I can see she did so, saying she 
understood the effects of doing so. But given the lack of any reasoning with the 
recommendation made and there being no evidence of any other comparison being provided 
to her, I dont think Miss W was in an informed position or could in fact fully understand the 
apparent risks. So, I think this statement holds less weight and I think was likely only made 
because Miss W believed this was the only way she could access some additional funds.
After Miss W insisted on proceeding, Portal sent her a suitability report. Firstly, Im of the 
opinion that a suitability report shouldve been provided along with the advice not to transfer, 
before the option of proceeding on an insistent client basis was discussed. But in any event, 
I think the suitability report provided didnt go far enough to allow Miss W to make an 
informed decision and the covering letter was misleading.
The suitability report said several times that Portal had already recommended that Miss W 
not transfer her policy and leave it where it was because of the benefits shed be giving up. 
But it contained no further reasoning why it recommended this  so doesnt read like a 
personalised recommendation.
The only part of the report that provided any additional depth on the things that ought to 
have been considered and formed part of the original advice was in the Additional important 
information section  not even the body of the report itself  where a small amount of 
additional detail was provided in respect of alternative funding options. 
It said using a loan, re-mortgage, disposable income or assets had been discounted as not 
financially viable. And said this was because Miss W didnt own a property or other tangible 
assets, didnt have enough disposable income and didnt want to take on lending or pay interest. But I dont think this demonstrates a genuine consideration of these options in any 
depth. There is no commentary on why Miss W didnt want to take on a loan  something 
she says she was in fact considering and had looked into. And on disposable income, the 
reason why Miss W had none at the point of the advice was completely omitted. 
Again, the fact fine demonstrated she in fact had approximately £730 of disposable income, 
but all was utilised for miscellaneous purposes. But it was also noted that these 
miscellaneous purposes were supporting her daughter. That was also the purpose of 
releasing funds. Yet no consideration was given, or at least recorded in the advice so that 
Miss W could see it had been thought about, to whether the lump sum she wanted to obtain 
for her daughter would in turn have meant she didnt have to provide ongoing monthly 
support. Or at least couldve reduced this, providing disposable income to support a loan or 
other credit.
And so, I dont think the suitability report, even when it was provided, was sufficiently 
detailed as a recommendation not to proceed. And even after receipt of this, retrospectively 
after she had already indicated shed proceed on an insistent basis, I dont think Miss W had 
been provided with enough information to make an informed decision about doing so.
The focus of the suitability report was also largely the new provider that Portal was now 
recommending as well as the portfolio mix it was suggesting and why it was doing so. And 
the covering letter that accompanied the report clearly said that Portal was delighted to 
recommendTransferring your pension. This I think supports what Miss W has said  
that her understanding was Portal was in fact recommending the transfer. At the very least it 
significantly muddied the waters. Which I think on balance likely led Miss W to believe that 
Portal felt the transfer was appropriate. And made it next to impossible for her to make an 
informed decision.
Portal was required to ensure that it treated Miss W fairly and that it acted in her best 
interests. And Im not persuaded that it did treat Miss W fairly when it went to such lengths to 
assist Miss W to identify as an insistent client.
I dont think the process was geared towards Miss W making an informed, considered 
assessment of the reasons why she shouldnt be transferring  as if it was I feel that would 
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Miss W, allowing her to consider 
this on her own and then revert to Portal if she still wished to proceed.
On the contrary, I would go as far as to say that Portals process was designed to facilitate 
the transfer, with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be 
achieved from the outset. I dont think that providing Miss W with a means of proceeding 
against the advice, without establishing why the apparent requirements were truly necessary 
and why alternatives werent appropriate, demonstrates that Portal had her best interests in 
mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Miss W to agree that 
she was an insistent client rather than allowing her time to think about the advice not to go 
ahead with the transfer. And so, I dont think she truly could make an informed decision 
about this.
Would Miss W have acted differently?
As Ive summarised, I think the advice was unsuitable and the process followed didnt allow 
Miss W to make an informed decision about whether to be an insistent client. But even so, I 
need to think whether she would always have gone ahead and transferred  if clear advice 
had been provided and an appropriate process followed. To do this, Ive considered the objectives that were stated during the advice process, how pressing I consider these were, 
and how that wouldve impacted Miss Ws actions.
The fact find completed by Portal is in my view clear that there were genuine reasons for 
Miss W needing a lump sum to assist her daughter. I wont go into these in any further detail, 
other than to reiterate it suggests Miss W was concerned for her daughters safety due to her 
domestic situation and, for her own peace of mind, Miss W wanted to provide a lump sum to 
change this. And Miss W has confirmed this was the case.
Miss Ws representatives have said that Portal shouldve explored Miss Ws daughters 
financial situation to see how pressing Miss Ws need was. But I dont agree. That goes 
beyond what Id reasonably have expected of Portal here. And again, Miss W has confirmed 
the purpose of obtaining funds was to support her daughter, for the reasons detailed in the 
suitability report and mentioned above. So overall, Im satisfied obtaining a lump sum was a 
genuine and pressing need for Miss W.
But I dont think she required the full amount of the TFC that was obtained by transferring. 
From the information Ive seen, Miss W appears to have been clear with Portal that she had 
a genuine need for a lump sum of £8,000. But I dont think she had a pressing need for the 
remainder. Buying a new car with the remainder was noted in the fact find, But I dont think 
this was a necessity and rather a suggestion of what she might choose to do with any 
surplus above her need.
So, given I think Miss W needed a sum of £8,000, Im satisfied shed have always taken 
steps to obtain this. But I dont think this means shed have always gone ahead with the 
transfer that took place here.
Miss Ws representatives have indicated she was considering taking a loan and could get 
one. And they say this is the option she would have taken if Portal had provided appropriate 
advice. But Im not sure I agree this is most likely. Although I think Portal needed to do a lot 
more to explore this option, I think given Miss Ws recent IVA, the interest rate and cost of 
the loan would quite likely have been prohibitive. And given the recent IVA, its likely shed 
have preferred to avoid further significant indebtedness.
As Ive said though, Miss W was 55 at the point she took advice from Portal. And according 
to information it has provided, appears to have been eligible to take benefits under her DB 
scheme at that time. And I think it appears likely doing so and releasing TFC wouldve 
provided her with the sum she urgently needed. I think if Portal had acted correctly and 
discussed this option with Miss W, this is what she would likely have done. I say this 
because it wouldve met her objective and then provided an ongoing additional annual 
income which it appears wouldve been useful to her, given what Portal recorded about her 
having no disposable income.
The TFC released this way wouldve been less than Miss W was able to release by 
transferring. But as Ive said, Im satisfied she only had a need for a smaller amount. And I 
think Miss W wouldve been willing to accept this given it meant her retirement income would 
then be guaranteed. Especially given her later action in drawing down her pension fund, 
when she became concerned about the investment risks associated with the new pension 
arrangements Portal recommended.
I accept the income shed have received as a result wouldve been less than she wouldve 
received by waiting until the normal scheme retirement age. But I think this would likely still 
have been preferable to Miss W to the alternatives of either paying significant interest on a 
loan or placing her retirement fund and eventual benefits at some risk by transferring and 
investing.Portal has suggested Miss W didnt want an income from her pension at that stage. But 
there is no real detail in the information provided that supports that conclusion. And I think on 
balance, if it had been put to her that this income was guaranteed for the rest of her life, 
albeit at a reduced level, and that she could still contribute to her current work place pension 
until she retired to improve her retirement provisions, shed have taken this option.
And so, if Portal had provided more appropriate and robust advice around why the transfer 
was not suitable, I dont think Miss W would have gone ahead. Instead I think, had her 
circumstances and options been thoroughly illustrated and explored, shed have taken 
benefits under her DB scheme at the time, as this wouldve allowed her to meet her 
objectives without risking the guaranteed portion of her retirement income.
I know Portal maintains that it said the transfer was against its recommendation  which 
overall was in my view correct. But the process Portal used, including the suitability report 
ultimately issued after Miss W had been directed to the insistent client route, lacked 
sufficient clarity, reasoning and rigour  for all the reasons set out above. And, in my view, 
meant Miss W wasnt able to make an informed decision. If she had been provided with 
more appropriate information and reasoning and hadnt been directed towards the insistent 
client route, I think she would have acted differently. As a result, I think Miss Ws complaint 
should be upheld.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Miss W £250 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Miss W has been caused distress and concern  
particularly so when she felt compelled to drawdown her pension fund due to the significant 
risk she perceived. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable 
advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
In light of this I said I was intending to recommend that Portal compensate Miss W for the 
unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. And I thought, had she been given full and clear information, Miss W wouldve 
immediately taken benefits from her DB scheme, at age 55, including taking the maximum 
available TFC. So, I felt the redress calculations should be based on this assumption.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Miss Ws representative said that she, and they, had nothing further to add.
Portal did not respond to my provisional decision by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided any further comments for me to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the reasons summarised 
above, I think the advice provided by Portal was incomplete, overall unsuitable and the 
process it followed was not appropriate and didnt allow Miss W to make an informed 
decision. So, I think Portal should compensate Miss W.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss W, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss W would 
have most likely remained in the DB scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I think Miss W would have taken benefits under the DB scheme immediately at 
the time of the advice, when she was aged 55, and drawn down the maximum available TFC 
under the scheme at that point. And the redress calculations should be based on these 
assumptions.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Miss Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, wed usually recommend the compensation 
be paid into Miss Ws pension plan if possible. But I understand Miss Ws plan may well now 
be closed. So, in the circumstances, I think the compensation payment should be paid 
directly to Miss W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as 
tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss W within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Miss W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition to the compensation amount Portal should also pay Miss W £250 for the distress 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
To resolve matters I order Portal Financial Services LLP to take the action set out in the 
Putting things right section of my decision, set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman