DRN-4268170
The complaint
Ms L and Mr M complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc misinformed them that they would be 
able to recover their early repayment charge (ERC) when they moved house.
What happened
Ms L and Mr M had a mortgage with Clydesdale that had a fixed rate mortgage product. In 
2019, they planned to move house and relocate to another town. Ms L and Mr M say that 
they were told by the bank that they would have to pay an ERC on selling their house but 
could recover it if they took out a new mortgage on a new property within six months of the 
sale. They sold and Mr M found a new property. Mr M applied for a mortgage that was 
declined. Ms L and Mr M say that the bank never told them that it could decline a new 
mortgage as otherwise they would have made other financial choices.
Clydesdale said that it couldnt trace a call where, as Mr M says, he was told that he could 
have the ERC refunded but didnt mention that this was subject to a full application and 
offered £50 by way of apology. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should 
be upheld as Clydesdale said that porting was subject to its lending criteria at the time and 
there was no guarantee that an application would be accepted. Mr M disagreed saying in 
summary that he was not told in his conversations with the banks call agents that the new 
mortgage was at risk of being declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L and Mr M had to pay a substantial ERC that they were unable to recover because 
when Mr M applied for a new mortgage that mortgage was refused. Ms L and Mr M brought 
this complaint to the bank in 2022 although the circumstances giving rise to the complaint 
occurred in 2020. Ms L and Mr M took out the mortgage product in 2018. Under the terms of 
the mortgage product an ERC was payable if the mortgage was redeemed early, as it was in 
this case, and the ERC could be refunded if they took out a new mortgage and, as stated in 
the mortgage offer, if you meet all of our lending criteria when you ask to port . At that 
stage Ms L and Mr M had, I understand, separated and this was an application by Mr M 
alone.
Ms L and Mr Ms complaint is that when Mr M discussed the situation with a Barclays adviser 
that the adviser didnt warn him that the application might be declined. Nor does Mr M say 
that he was told that the application would be accepted. I believe that in those 
circumstances, as is set out in the mortgage offer, that the application was subject to 
Clydesdales lending criteria and, its a reasonable assumption to make, that the application 
could be either accepted or declined. I dont consider that it was reasonable for Mr M to 
assume that, even though his circumstances changed, it would be accepted. Nor do I have 
any reason to believe that Clydesdale didnt fairly apply its lending criteria to the application. 
So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman