DRN-3896304
The complaint
Mr W has complained that a UK Insurance Limited (UKI) (trading as Direct Line) has rejected 
a claim he made under his pet insurance policy on the ground that the condition claimed for 
had previously been claimed for more than 12 months before, contrary to a policy term.
What happened
Mr W insured his dog, who Ill refer to as R, with UKI with effect from 30 November 2018. R 
was covered by UKIs Essential policy. This level provides the following cover:
Essential: Up to £4000 or 12 months (whichever is reached first) for each separate 
condition, from the date that vet fees were first charged for treatment for that condition.
On 23 May 2019 R was seen by her vet for her annual vaccinations. The vets notes show 
that  it was advised that R have a dental procedure as soon as possible due to bad 
periodontal disease. This would require R to have a general anaesthetic. The vet detected 
that R had a grade 1-2 (out of 6) heart murmur. Mr W also reported that shed been 
coughing frequently. The vet recommended that R be seen by a cardiologist before she 
underwent a general anaesthetic.
R had an echocardiogram on 4 July 2019. This identified a grade 2 heart murmur and she 
was diagnosed with stage B1 mitral valve disease (MVD). The vet didnt suspect that MVD to 
be the cause of Rs cough as there was no cardiac enlargement or pulmonary oedema. She 
suspected the cough to be bronchial. Medication wasnt considered necessary at that time 
but advice was given that R have a further cardio check in 9 months.
A claim was submitted to UKI on 5 July 2019 which was for the cost of the echocardiography 
and the consultation for the heart murmur. This claim was paid less the £190 excess.
In 2021 R was registered with a different vet. The vets records show an increase over time 
in Rs heart murmur to a grade 4 and she was started on medication with the aim of slowing 
the progression of her MVD. 
In 2022 Mr W sought to claim for the cost of Rs ongoing heart treatment. 
UKI declined this claim. It maintains that the 2022 claim is for the same developing condition 
as that for which treatment was provided and claimed for in 2019. It refers to the definition of 
Treatment in the policy, namely:
Treatment: Any vet fees for necessary examinations, consultations, advice, tests, x-
rays, surgery, prescribed drugs or medication, nursing or care given by or under the 
direction of a vet during a period of insurance.
UKI says that an echocardiography is considered as treatment for the purposes of the 
policy and that the investigations into Rs heart in 2019 were carried out to check that it was 
healthy enough to withstand a general anaesthetic and not for any other reason. It says that 
the fact that there was a frequent cough present further strengthened the vets reasons for 
continuing with this course of investigation. It maintains that as more than 12 months had 
passed since the original treatment had been provided and claimed for in 2019, it was 
unable to consider Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W argues that this is a new and separate claim involving medication whereas that made 
in 2019 did not. He argues that the echocardiography performed in 2019 was carried out for 
Rs cough which was believed to be bronchial and not heart related.
Mr W was dissatisfied with UKIs rejection of his claim and brought his complaint to this 
service. He wants his claim to be accepted by UKI and for recent and ongoing veterinary 
fees to be covered for 12 months in accordance with the terms of his policy as they are 
unconnected to his claim in 2019.
Our investigators view was that as Rs medical notes showed that R had had Treatment (as 
defined) for a heart murmur more than 12 months before the claim in 2022, UKI was entitled 
to decline the claim.
As Mr W doesnt agree with our investigators view, his complaint has been referred to me as 
an ombudsman for a final decision from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms of Rs policy from which I think its clear that Treatment includes 
examinations and consultations. Ive quoted the definition above.
In 2019 Rs heart murmur was identified during an examination to assess the cause of her 
cough. This was investigated. This involved a consultation and an echocardiogram 
examination i.e. Treatment, which were paid and claimed for. In my view, whether the 
reason for this investigation was to establish the cause of Rs cough or her fitness to 
undergo a general anaesthetic is irrelevant. The fact is that R received Treatment, as 
defined, for her identified heart condition.
R was diagnosed with stage B1 mitral valve disease. The fact that medication wasnt 
prescribed for R at that stage is also irrelevant as that is only one factor that counts as 
Treatment. I also dont accept Mr Ws argument that because Rs heart condition wasnt 
responsible for her cough in 2019 its therefore a separate matter. 
In my opinion, R received Treatment in 2019 for a heart condition and this was ongoing in 
2022, more than 12 months from the date that vet fees were first charged for treatment for 
that condition.
I therefore dont consider that UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ws 
claim as it has done so in accordance with the terms of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman