DRN-3641278
Complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In May 2019, Mr Ys account received credits of £1,500, £500 and £400. £1,900.00 of the 
funds were transferred on to a third-party. And the remainder stayed in Mr Ys account.
Shortly afterwards, Metro received a notification from the third-party bank, which sent the 
payments to Mr Ys account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported being a victim 
of fraud. Metro reviewed Mr Ys account and decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
After subsequently learning about the fraud marker, Mr Y complained about Metros actions. 
Metro looked at Mr Ys complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr Y remained dissatisfied he 
asked our service to look into the matter.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ys concerns. She didnt think that Metro had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr Y unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr Y disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Metro has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Y is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Metro must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ys account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Metro also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr Y was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr Y allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ys complaint, I need to decide whether I think Metro had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ys account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Metro has done this here. 
Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Ys 
account in May 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr Y was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr Y told us that he believed that he was getting involved in trading and that he responded 
to an advert which said that he could make money through this. Mr Y has that the funds 
which entered his account were his returns from trading. However, when he asked the trader 
to provide evidence that the funds which came into his account were legitimate after Metro 
asked for this, the broker was reluctant to provide this.  
Ive thought about what Mr Y has said. But Im afraid that there are a number of things which 
simply dont add up here and which mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an 
unwitting participant. I firstly say this because Mr Ys statements show that the bulk of the 
funds which entered his account ended up being transferred to another account. And it 
simply doesnt make sense for Mr Y to have transferred his returns in this way.
Secondly, Im mindful that Mr Y got involved in this venture after hed already had an 
account closed with another bank for similar transactions. Given Mr Y had already had an 
account closed for similar activity, I think that this ought to have alerted Mr Y to the 
legitimacy of what he was involving himself in. And, in these circumstances, Im concerned 
that Mr Y didnt ask any broker or trader for evidence of the legitimacy of the funds he was 
being sent before getting involved in this activity, given what had happened to him 
previously. 
So Im satisfied that there were a number of issues that ought reasonably to have led Mr Y to 
have had concerns about the legitimacy of what he was entering into and yet he decided to 
continue regardless of this. As this is the case, I think that Mr Y, at the very least, proceeded 
in circumstances where he ought to have known that there was a significant risk that he 
might have been allowing his account to be used for illegitimate purposes. And as his 
account ended up being used for fraudulent purposes in these circumstances and he 
benefitted from this, I cant reasonably say that he was an unwitting participant here.  
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Metro did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ys account. And bearing in mind what 
Ive said above, Im also satisfied that Metro was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it 
was more likely than not Mr Y was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was unfair for Metro to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr Y  especially as I know that Mr Y is saying 
that this is having a significant impact on him. Be that as it may, I cant simply ignore the fact 
that the available evidence appears to show that Mr Y was complicit in fraudulent activity 
here. So I hope Mr Y will understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel 
his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman