DRN-4259768
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the compensation she has been offered by Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada (Sun Life), as 
a result of some advice she was given in 1993 about making additional pension 
contributions, is insufficient.
What happened
The advice Mrs P was given was provided by Cannon Assurance. That firm was later 
acquired by Lincoln National, and then by Sun Life. So it is Sun Life that is responsible for 
dealing with Mrs Ps complaint. In this decision, for ease, I will simply refer to Sun Life as the 
advising business throughout.
Mrs P is a teacher. In 1993 she met with an advisor from Sun Life to discuss her financial 
situation. She was advised to join her occupational pension scheme (OPS). And she was 
further advised to make free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a 
personal pension with Sun Life in order to increase her income at retirement. Mrs P 
accepted that advice, joined her OPS, and started making FSAVC payments of £30 per 
month. Mrs P continued making those payments for around two and a half years before 
stopping her FSAVC payments due to them becoming unaffordable.
Following some recent press coverage Mrs P complained to Sun Life about the advice shed 
received. She said that she would have been better off making additional contributions to her 
OPS instead. Sun Life accepted that it appeared the advice Mrs P had been given hadnt 
complied with the relevant regulations at that time. So it offered her compensation in line 
with the regulators approach on the basis that shed have instead chosen to pay additional 
voluntary contributions (AVCs) to the OPS.
Mrs P didnt accept Sun Lifes offer as she thought that rather than paying AVCs she would 
have most likely purchased added years benefits instead. Sun Life didnt agree to pay 
compensation on that basis so Mrs P brought her complaint to us.
Mrs Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that her 
circumstances in 1993 had been such that she would have found purchasing added years 
benefits attractive. He thought it more likely that Mrs P, had she been fairly advised by 
Sun Life, would have chosen to make AVC payments to the OPS instead. So he thought the 
compensation Sun Life had offered to Mrs P was fair.
Mrs P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs P and by Sun Life. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advisor that met with Mrs P was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Sun Life. They couldnt actively recommend any 
other products from any other product providers including the in-house options (AVCs or 
added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time 
- LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). The LAUTRO Code 
said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, 
care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the 
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative in 
question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most 
likely be available to consumers like Mrs P. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the 
FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic benefits of the in-house options, 
including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the 
FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid into 
either in-house option.
Sun Life accepts that the documentation from the time suggests that its advisor probably 
failed to meet the requirements of the regulator as set out above. So it has told Mrs P that it 
will pay her compensation to reflect the additional charges that she will have paid in holding 
the FSAVC plan rather than if her additional contributions had been made to the OPS. But 
Mrs P is unhappy with that approach  she says that she would have instead most likely 
purchased added years benefits. So here, I dont need to decide whether the advice Mrs P 
received was appropriate, or whether the information she was given was sufficient. I simply 
need to decide what I think Mrs P would have done if nothing had gone wrong, and that will 
allow me to determine what compensation Sun Life should pay.
The advice was provided to Mrs P around 30 years ago. Over such an extended period of 
time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. So I think it reasonable that 
I place the greatest weight on the written documentation from the time. I think that gives me the best indication of Mrs Ps circumstances, and the objectives she was looking to meet at 
that time.
Sun Life has provided us with a copy of a letter that Mrs P sent around the time that the 
advice was given. The letter explained that Mrs P was wanting to make additional pension 
contributions as her intention was to take several career breaks and go abroad in the future. 
So whilst I have no doubts that Mrs P saw her long-term career in the teaching profession, 
Im not persuaded that, at that time, she would have considered it likely that there would be 
no breaks in her employment.
In 1993 Mrs P was aged 24 and single. She agreed to make net FSAVC payments of £30 
per month. She was provided with some projections that showed, taking account of the 
potential growth of those FSAVC savings and in line with the regulators assumptions, the 
additional pension she might expect to receive at retirement. The assumptions in use at that 
time have, with the benefit of hindsight, proven to be very optimistic. But, at the time, there 
was no reason to anticipate they wouldnt be achieved.
Mrs P has provided us with some information from her OPS about the costs and benefits she 
might have received from purchasing added years benefits instead. That information shows 
that the maximum number of added years she could purchase would have been four, and at 
a similar cost to the FSAVC payments she was making.
Added years were completely different to the other options in that they provided a 
guaranteed benefit. However, as this depended on Mrs Ps future salary, it would have been 
difficult to pinpoint precisely what that benefit would be at retirement. And at the time of 
advice, added years would likely have looked expensive compared to the projected returns 
and benefits of the FSAVC. 
Mrs P might also have considered at the time that there were other disadvantages in taking 
the added years option. It seems that, at least initially, Mrs P might have been able to save 
more into an AVC arrangement than she could spend on added years. That would have 
allowed her to meet her objective of maximising her savings when she was working, to 
accommodate any times that she was enjoying a career break. And the added years option 
was a long-term commitment  to achieve the expected benefits Mrs P would have needed 
to continue making the agreed contributions, increasing in line with changes to her salary, 
until retirement.
Added years also provided Mrs P with automatic spouses, partners or dependants 
pensions to match the benefits payable from the main scheme. So Mrs P might have wanted 
to have been confident that her marital status would change and that was happy to fund the 
extra benefits on this basis. By using the money purchase options, AVC or FSAVC, she 
could have chosen to draw her pension on a single life basis and get potentially more 
competitive terms.
With the benefit of hindsight, it might have been more beneficial to have chosen the added 
years option, given the significant changes in the rates of investment returns that have been 
seen over the years. But those couldnt be foreseen, so at that time Im not persuaded that 
Mrs P would have found the added years benefits more attractive than she might have 
received from an AVC option. And we must remember that, given the likely difference in 
charges, returns from an AVC projection would have been more attractive than those Mrs P 
accepted under the FSAVC plan.
So although I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mrs P, I think that it is 
reasonable that the compensation Sun Life has offered to pay is on the basis that Mrs P 
would have made AVC payments, rather than purchasing added years. Sun Life accepts that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold to Mrs P in 1993. It now needs to calculate and pay her the 
appropriate compensation.
Putting things right
Sun Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Sun Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this."
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right as detailed above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 September 2023. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman