DRN-3285751
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her legal
expenses insurance. Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Theres a dispute about some of the detail of the background to the complaint. But I think its 
safe to say, in summary, that Ms M had legal services cover as part of her home insurance 
policy and had a dispute with her employer. Ms M wanted legal assistance in dealing with a 
claim for breach of contract, unfair dismissal and disability discrimination.
In July 2019, Avivas panel solicitors reported that Ms Ms claim had over 51% chance of 
success and qualified for cover under the legal expenses insurance. The panel solicitors 
said that there was some difficulty taking Ms Ms instructions and Aviva agreed to fund a 
conference with counsel in order to take further instructions from Ms M. That conference 
took place in July 2019.
In August 2019, Avivas panel solicitors reported that, following the conference with 
counsel, the prospects of success of Ms Ms claim had been reconsidered and were not 
over 51%. The panel solicitors said that was in part because Ms M had been reinstated 
by her employer after a successful appeal. They said that counsel advised Ms M not to 
resign and not to claim constructive dismissal, but that Ms M subsequently resigned 
from her employment. Aviva withdrew cover. Ms M says that the offer of reinstatement 
wasnt taken up and that she didnt resign, she was dismissed..
In this decision, I deal with the concerns Ms M has about Aviva which she complained about 
in her letter to Aviva of 15 May 2020, to which Aviva responded on 7 July 2020. Ms M 
complains that Aviva;
didnt provide her with complete information about the hours spent by the panel 
solicitor and the barrister and the payments it made to them;
didnt respond to her concerns about how her claim had been handled;
ignored her request to appoint an independent solicitor to review her claim;
didnt provide her with the date one of its panel solicitors withdrew from her case.
Ms M wants an independent review of her claim by a solicitor of her choice and 
compensation for her inconvenience and suffering.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt recommend that Ms Ms 
complaint be upheld. Ms M didnt agree with the investigator. She asked for an extension of 
time in which to provide a response, but this service didnt receive anything further from     
Ms M at that point. Ms M has recently explained that she had difficulty responding at that 
time and wasnt aware of the time limit. As there was no agreement between the parties, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. Ms M has since provided responses to the 
investigators view.
My provisional decision
On 23 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I 
indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint in part and direct Aviva to pay Ms M 
compensation of £200 in relation to her inconvenience. I said:
Its clear and quite understandable that Ms M has very strong feelings about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support her complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However, I focus on what I consider the central issues.
In this decision, I dont deal with the criticism Ms M has of the panel solicitors. Thats 
because this service has no jurisdiction over solicitors, and we dont hold insurers 
responsible for the actions of panel solicitors. Aviva appoints panel solicitors as 
independent legal experts with their own regulator and complaints body. But I can consider 
how Aviva dealt with Ms Ms claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Subject to its terms, the 
policy provides that Aviva will pay certain legal costs and expenses in relation to insured 
events, which include an employment dispute. The relevant parts of the policy say as 
follows:
2. The lawyers assessment
Our lawyer will assess the evidence and if it is more likely than not that you will:
a. recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to 
(e.g. being paid compensation []
[]
then we will fund the case for you.
[]
If, in the lawyers 
opinion: 
[]
b. the prospects of success are no longer in your favour, []
then we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it. If this happens the lawyer
will tell you what options would be available should you wish to continue.
Please note that prospects of success may change throughout your claim as evidence 
is obtained and legal arguments develop.
3. What can I do if I do not agree with the lawyers opinion?
We have confidence in the opinion of our appointed lawyer and rely on this when deciding if 
we should continue to pay the costs and expenses towards your claim.
If you do not agree with the lawyers opinion and you find a different lawyer at your own 
cost or you already have a lawyer who supports your view, then we will be happy to offer 
a review of the case. The opinion of your chosen lawyer must be based on the same 
information regarding the claim that you provided to us.
The lawyer conducting the review will be chosen jointly by you and us. If we cannot 
agree on who this lawyer should be then we will ask a relevant law society to appoint 
one. The reviewing lawyer will assess the case and we will abide by their decision. We will pay for the cost of this review and should they decide in your favour we will also pay 
any costs that you incurred for your chosen lawyers second opinion.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. Ill explain why:
Aviva provided Ms M with some information about the amounts it had paid to its 
panel solicitor and the barrister. Whilst Aviva is obliged to pay certain legal costs and 
expenses, its not obliged to give Ms M information about how much it paid, or the 
time spent by the solicitor or barrister. Theres nothing in the terms and conditions of 
the policy that requires Aviva to provide Ms M with the information shes requested. I 
dont think that Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in providing the response it did 
in relation to Ms Ms query about payments to the panel solicitor and barrister.
Ms M says that Aviva didnt respond to her concerns about how the panel solicitor 
dealt with her claim. As Ive said, we dont hold insurers responsible for the actions of 
panel solicitors, so it wasnt for Aviva to comment on how the panel solicitors had 
conducted the matter. Wed expect legal expense insurers to take care to appoint 
solicitors that are suitably qualified and experienced to deal with the legal case in 
question, but Aviva has no duty to oversee how the solicitor deals with the case and 
isnt responsible for any action or omission on the solicitors part.
Aviva isnt a legal expert and its right that it seeks a legal opinion on the prospects of 
success of Ms Ms claim. Its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written 
and reasoned legal opinion on whether the claim has prospects of success or not, in 
order to decide whether a claim is covered.
Here, Avivas decision to withdraw funding for Ms Ms claim was based on e-mails of 
5 July 2019 and 6 August 2019 from its panel solicitors. In the e-mail of                      
6 August 2019, the panel solicitors said that as Ms M had been reinstated her claim 
didnt have over 51% prospects of success and that counsel had advised Ms M that 
she wouldnt have a claim for constructive dismissal.
I think that summary by the panel solicitors was brief and didnt address Ms Ms 
concern about the pension calculation or issues around disability discrimination. I 
think that Aviva should have made further enquiries of its panel solicitors and sought 
more information before making its decision about whether to continue to fund the 
claim. The information Aviva had to come to its decision about funding was scant and 
it would have been better if it had gathered more information at that stage.
Having said that, I dont think that further enquires would necessarily have altered the 
outcome here. Thats because reinstatement remedied any failings by Ms Ms 
employer in relation to the initial dismissal. And I understand that Ms M had been 
advised that her concerns about her pension could be resolved another way in a 
complaints process (although I appreciate that, subsequently, there were certain 
obstacles in doing so).The relevant policy term  which Ive set out above  says that where an insured 
doesnt agree with the panel solicitors opinion about the prospects of success of the 
claim, its for the insured to pay for an opinion from a different lawyer and, if that 
opinion is supportive, Aviva will offer a review of the case from another lawyer, jointly 
chosen by them and the insured.
When an insurer rejects a claim because it says that it doesnt have reasonable 
prospects of success wed expect it to make it clear to the insured that it will look at 
the claim again if theres more evidence or a favourable legal opinion from a qualified 
lawyer. So, even if Aviva had gathered sufficient information to come to its view about 
withdrawing cover, it should have given Ms M an opportunity to obtain the opinion of 
her own solicitor.
Based on what Ive seen, on 9 March 2020, Aviva told Ms M that she could pay for 
an opinion from another lawyer at her expense. That was some months after it 
withdrew cover.
I dont think that Aviva made Ms Ms next steps clear to her in a timely way. Whilst I 
dont think that altered the outcome of Ms Ms claim  because her employer had 
offered reinstatement - I think that caused some confusion and inconvenience. Thats 
because Ms M was unsure what to do in order to progress matters. And she 
continued to correspond with the panel solicitors instead of instructing her own 
lawyer about the prospects of success of her claim.
I think that Avivas delay in telling Ms M that she could pay for an opinion from 
another lawyer at her expense caused her some inconvenience. I think that fair 
compensation for this part of Ms Ms complaint is £200. In reaching that view, Ive 
taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the inconvenience incurred by 
Ms M as a result of Aviva not making clear to her what she could do if she disagreed 
with the panel solicitors conclusions about the prospects of success of her claim.
Ms M complains that Aviva didnt tell her when an individual solicitor withdrew from 
her case. I dont think thats the sort of information Aviva would have. As Ive said 
above, Aviva doesnt oversee the case. That sort of information may be obtained 
from the solicitor. So, I dont think that Aviva was at fault in failing to provide that 
information.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Aviva nor Ms M agreed with my provisional decision. Aviva said, in summary:
Ms M didnt contact it to complain about the panel solicitors conclusion that her case 
didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
When Ms M contacted it on 13 January [2020] it was to complain about the panel 
solicitors conduct. It subsequently gave Ms M information about how she could 
challenge the panel solicitors view.
  
If it is required to give information about the right of appeal to every insured after the 
panel solicitors find insufficient prospects of success, even where the insured hasnt 
disagreed with the panel solicitors assessment, it would give the impression that it 
doesnt have complete trust in their professional opinion. Ms M responded in some considerable detail, both in relation to the investigators view and 
the provisional decision. Ive considered all of her responses but focus on her response to 
the provisional decision here, which is, in summary: 
She complained about the panel solicitors directly to them and then to the Legal 
Ombudsman.
The complaint to this service includes concerns about false information recorded by 
the panel solicitors and shared with Aviva.
In April and May 2019, she sent to the panel solicitors all her documentation about 
her employment dispute, including the reinstatement letter from her employer and 
her rejection of that. So, the panel solicitor knew about her reinstatement from April 
2019.
In May 2019, the panel solicitors submitted her claim to the employment tribunal 
following its positive assessment of the prospects of success of her case in         
April 2019.
In June 2019, the panel solicitors told her that it had noticed the documentation about 
her reinstatement and subsequently changed its advice about her prospects of 
success. She provided further evidence to show that the reinstatement wasnt 
processed but that wasnt considered either during or after the conference in        
July 2019. 
The panel solicitors misled Aviva about the details of her employment and the reason 
for its change in its opinion about the prospects of success of her case. 
Avivas biased attitude and failure to investigate the problems she reported about the 
panel solicitors led to the withdrawal of her cover, lack of representation and 
distress.
The provisional decision contains incorrect details about how her claim was 
processed and her dispute with her employer and doesnt reflect her employment 
status. 
The investigated subject wasnt the actual reason for her complaint. 
Shes having difficulty getting information about missing data, so cant fully describe 
her concerns about how Aviva processed her claim.
The description of what happened in the provisional decision isnt correct. She 
contacted Aviva in 2018 in relation to her claim for breach of contract only. It 
allocated her claim incorrectly and there were delays in the panel solicitors 
assessing her claim. 
She received three different legal opinions based on the same documentation and 
four different opinions from the same counsel between April and August 2019, 
including advice to resign. 
Her evidence that her employer didnt commence the reinstatement wasnt taken into 
account. 
She didnt resign  she was dismissed. Aviva said that she couldnt proceed with an independent review of the legal advice 
because of ongoing complaints to this service and the panel solicitors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms submissions are detailed and comprehensive and cover her concerns about both 
Aviva and the panel solicitors. As I set out in the provisional decision, this service cant 
consider complaints about solicitors, so this decision deals with Avivas actions. In addition, 
we can only look at issues where Aviva has had an opportunity to respond. As I said 
previously, this decision deals with matters Mrs M complained about in her letter to Aviva of 
15 May 2020, to which Aviva responded on 7 July 2020. 
Ive summarised the basic facts of the case and the parties central responses and presented 
them in a lot less detail than Ms M has provided. No discourtesy is intended by that. Were 
an informal alternative to the courts; were impartial and were not here to address every 
issue that may concern Ms M about whats happened. Our role is to consider all of the 
evidence we receive, decide whats relevant (and what isnt) to reaching a fair outcome 
about how Aviva acted, and come to a conclusion on how we think the dispute should be 
settled. So, I wont be addressing all of the points Ms M has made, especially where they 
relate to the panel solicitors or to matters not covered by her complaint to Aviva on             
15 May 2020. That doesnt mean Ive ignored what Ms M has said. Ive considered 
everything Ms M and Aviva have said and provided but I confine my findings to the issues 
that I consider are central to the outcome of the complaint against Aviva. 
In general terms, insurers are entitled to rely on a properly written and reasoned legal 
opinion about a cases prospects of success from someone whos suitably qualified. Here, 
the information from Avivas panel solicitors was brief and it would have been better if Aviva 
had gathered more information at that stage. But, for the reasons I explained in the 
provisional decision, I dont think that would have altered the outcome here. Thats because 
Aviva was entitled to rely on the panel solicitors conclusion that as Ms M had been 
reinstated, her claim didnt have over 51% prospects of success. I appreciate that Ms M 
doesnt agree with the panel solicitors opinion and that she didnt accept the offer of 
reinstatement.   
Ms M says that the panel solicitors knew about the offer of reinstatement in April 2019. That  
doesnt change the outcome here. Thats because it remains the case that Aviva is entitled 
to rely on the opinion of its panel solicitors. And a panel solicitors view may change as the 
case progresses, whether thats because it may have overlooked something previously or 
because circumstances have changed. A panel solicitor may lodge a claim to an 
employment tribunal in order to preserve the insureds position pending further consideration 
of the merits of the case. That doesnt mean that Aviva must continue to fund the case.  
In answer to the points raised by Aviva, as it relied on its panel solicitors opinion about the 
cases prospects of success and withdrew funding, I think it should have made clear to Ms M 
that if she didnt agree with the panel solicitors opinion she could pay for an opinion from a 
different lawyer. I dont agree that doing so in this case would give the impression that Aviva 
didnt have complete trust in their panel solicitors opinion, its simply reminding Ms M of the 
process set out in the policy terms. I dont think Aviva needed to wait for Ms M to object to 
the panel solicitors assessment before it gave her that information. I think there was some 
delay in Aviva telling Ms M that she could pay for an opinion from another lawyer at her 
expense. For the reasons I explained in the provisional decision, I think the delay caused  
Ms M some inconvenience.  For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Aviva 
didnt make Ms Ms next steps clear to her in a timely way. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms M 
compensation of £200 in relation to her inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I now direct                              
Aviva Insurance Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman