DRN-2718366
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has handled her pet 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs R had a pet insurance policy for her dog, T.
The policy was underwritten by Great Lakes.
T sadly passed away following an illness  he was 14 years old. 
When putting in a claim for Ts treatment, Great Lakes told Mrs R she had death 
benefit as part of her cover. 
If death benefit applies, the policy provides that Great Lakes would pay the amount 
Mrs R paid for T or the current market value if proof of the former is unavailable.  
Mrs R subsequently received a letter from Great Lakes saying she wasnt entitled to 
this cover because T was over nine years old when he passed away from an illness  
and this is an exclusion under the policy. 
Mrs R is unhappy her policy didnt provide death benefit and that she was given the 
wrong information when putting in her claim. 
She said she wouldnt have taken the policy had she known death benefit didnt 
apply to older dogs. She refutes having been made aware of this and says she didnt 
receive the policy documentation.
Great Lakes has said sorry for giving Mrs R the incorrect information and its 
provided feedback to the adviser.
Mrs R remains unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes needed to do anything else. She 
acknowledged a mistake had been made but was satisfied the policy wording was 
clear and that Mrs R had been provided with the policy documentation.  
Mrs R disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The policy says, We will not pay for any pets over 9 years old that pass away due to 
illness.  
T passed away from an illness when he was 14 years old. So, I dont think its fair to 
expect Great Lakes to pay Mrs R the current market value for Ts breed because this 
wasnt something she was entitled to under the policy.
However, Mrs R has suffered a loss of expectation having been led to believe she 
was entitled to death benefit from the communication she had with Great Lakes  
and it needs to recognise the impact this had on her.
This was a very difficult time for Mrs R  she said she found losing a beloved pet a 
painful experience and her sadness was compounded by Great Lakes mistake.  
But I must keep in mind that Great Lakes provided the correct information a couple of 
weeks later. So, it was a relatively short period in which Mrs R wrongly believed she 
had death benefit cover.
Great Lakes has provided a screenshot showing the emails which were sent to Mrs R 
on the day she took the policy out. I can see the policy document was attached to 
one email and that it was sent to the correct email address. So, I cant agree Mrs R 
wasnt provided with the terms and conditions at the time of taking the policy out.
Great Lakes needs to recognise the impact its mistake has had on Mrs R, and Im 
satisfied £100 compensation reflects the upset she was caused. 
I know Mrs R feels strongly this doesnt reflect her pain, but Im satisfied its fair in the 
circumstances and in line with the awards this service makes.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to pay 
Mrs R £100 compensation. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman