DRN-3499932
The complaint
Mr T complains about the handling of his legal expenses insurance claim by DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) and their refusal to let him appoint his own 
solicitors.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr T suffered an injury when he was involved in an accident abroad. He made 
a claim on his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy with DAS to pursue a claim against the 
third party responsible for the accident. DAS accepted Mr T had cover under the policy and 
appointed panel solicitors to act on his behalf. 
Mr T was unhappy with the slow progress the solicitors were making to progress his legal 
claim and complained. He thought the solicitors had been unprofessional and insensitive to 
his circumstances. He wanted to appoint his own solicitors given his accident had happened 
abroad and both criminal and civil proceedings were taking place.
DAS noted Mr Ts concerns about the panel lawyers and directed him to the solicitors 
complaints process. They said theyd need to understand from the panel solicitors if they felt 
they didnt have the expertise to deal with Mr Ts case before considering whether to allow 
him to appoint his own solicitors.
Mr T was unhappy with delays by DAS in communicating with him about his case and felt 
theyd behaved unprofessionally in dealing with his request to appoint his own lawyers. In 
September 2021 Mr T let DAS know the third party had accepted liability for the accident. He 
still wanted to appoint his own lawyers.
DAS acknowledged their own communication hadnt been as good as theyd expect. They 
apologised and offered Mr T compensation of £200. DAS addressed Mr Ts concerns about 
his freedom to choose his own solicitors under the LEI policy. They said the terms of the 
policy didnt allow him to appoint his own solicitors since there was no conflict of interest and 
legal proceedings hadnt become necessary. 
Mr T wasnt happy with DASs response, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. To put things right Mr T wants DAS to pay him compensation of at least £500 
and let him appoint his own solicitors to deal with his legal claim.
Our investigator agreed Mr T wasnt entitled to appoint his own solicitors under the terms of 
the policy. She thought the compensation DAS had offered Mr T in the circumstances was 
fair. Since Mr T didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the injury Mr T sustained. And Im pleased to note the third party has 
accepted responsibility. I appreciate Mr Ts concerns about the way his insurance and legal 
claims have been handled so far. But, for the reasons Ill explain, I dont think hes entitled to 
appoint his own solicitors under the terms of his LEI policy as things stand.
Under the terms of the policy, and subject to its terms and conditions, DAS agrees to pay an 
appointed representative on Mr Ts behalf costs and expenses up to £50,000 for incidents 
insured under the policy, provided there are reasonable prospects of success.
The policy sets out clearly that where legal representation is necessary, DAS will appoint a 
preferred law firm (panel solicitors) as Mr Ts appointed representative to deal with his 
claim. Only if the panel solicitors cant negotiate settlement of the claim and it becomes 
necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued, or a conflict of interest arises, 
can Mr T choose a law firm to act for him instead.
No conflict of interest has arisen here. 
Mr Ts referred to regulation 6(1) of the Insurance Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) 
Regulations 1990 which says:
Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualification as may be necessary) to defend, represent or service the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person).
Mr T says he made a criminal complaint in the country where he had his accident and that 
the state prosecutor has launched an inquiry, in which hes provided evidence, into what 
happened. He says, since there is an inquiry, hes entitled, in line with the regulation, to 
appoint his own solicitors under the policy.
We consider an inquiry or proceedings to be judicial or other similar processes. But we 
dont consider the regulation and relevant case law mean a policyholder has the freedom to 
choose their own solicitors to carry out preparatory work before any negotiation has failed 
and proceedings are imminent. 
The panel solicitors have obtained advice from lawyers in the country where Mr T had his 
accident on which I think its reasonable to rely. The overseas lawyers have said that where 
criminal proceedings are brought, any claim for compensation that might otherwise have 
been made in civil proceedings must instead be made as part of the criminal proceedings. 
But, before that happens, the state prosecutor would need to make a formal criminal 
accusation after an investigation has been carried out. And just because someone has made 
a criminal complaint, it doesnt mean the case will go ahead in the criminal court as many 
complaints are dismissed before a formal accusation has been made. 
Mr T has confirmed the criminal inquiry is ongoing. But Im not aware a formal accusation 
has been made against the third party in Mr Ts case or, even if it has, that proceedings in 
the criminal court are imminent. 
So, in the circumstances of Mr Ts case where the state prosecutor has been carrying out an 
investigation, no formal accusation has been made and/or theres no suggestion court or 
other proceedings are imminent or necessary, and the third party has accepted 
responsibility, I dont think Mr T is entitled to appoint his own solicitors under the terms of the 
policy. 
I can understand why Mr T would like another firm to represent him given his concerns about 
the way the panel firm has dealt with his case so far and the reassurance having the solicitor with dual qualification hed like to appoint might bring. However, Im satisfied the panel firm 
DAS appointed has the necessary expertise to handle Mr Ts complaint, and access to a 
lawyer in the relevant country. It was reasonable for DAS to appoint them to act on his 
behalf.  And Im not aware of any exceptional circumstances that would make it fair to ask 
DAS to allow him to appoint his own solicitors outside the policy terms and conditions. 
DAS apologised for the delays that happened over a few weeks which Mr T will 
understandably have found frustrating and inconvenient. I think the compensation of £200 
DAS offered Mr T to compensate him for service issues was fair in the circumstances. If they 
havent already, Id encourage DAS to pay that sum to Mr T now if he wishes to accept it.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr T will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman