DRN-2231626
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim under their holiday home insurance policy for storm damage to a wall.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs C made a claim to Fairmead for damage to a river wall at their 
property which they rented out as a holiday home (the river wall was in an area subject to 
tidal waters and therefore served the same purpose as a seawall). They provided a report by 
a structural engineer (which Ill call B) confirming that, in the engineers opinion, the failure 
of the wall was likely as a result of a recent named storm.
Fairmead arranged for a specialist marine civil engineering contractor (which Ill call T) 
along with a structural engineer to assess the wall. T issued a report agreeing with B that the 
damage was likely to have been caused by a recent storm. The report said that the crack at 
the interface with the neighbours wall may well have allowed water to ingress and water 
pressure to build up behind the wall, but that the weep holes would have helped to deal with 
this. It also noted that the reinforcement included in a partial rebuild of the wall in 2014 would 
not have benefitted the lower bulging and cracked part of the wall. The report recommended 
that further information be obtained, including about the nature of the partial rebuild of the 
wall which had taken place in 2014, to inform the design of the remedial works.
Fairmead was unconvinced by the reports which had been received to date. It arranged for a 
forensic investigator (who Ill call H) to look into the claim.
H noted that the wall had failed following a storm in 2014 and that the failed section had 
been rebuilt in 2015 for which B had provided certification. He noted also that when Mr and 
Mrs C had purchased the property in 2017, a residential building survey undertaken at that 
time (by a company which Ill call W) had identified certain defects in the wall, namely 
bulging to the lower part of the wall and a crack at the wall where it met that of the 
neighbouring property. H issued a report which concluded that the wall had cracked and 
moved due to forces from the soil and water acting on the rear of the wall. He didnt consider 
the damage had been caused by the storm although the rainfall during this may have 
increased the forces acting behind the wall.
Based on Hs report, Fairmead declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs C challenged Hs finding that during the storm the seawater wouldnt have 
breached the wall and pointed to independent reports which, in their opinion, showed that 
waves during the storm would have repeatedly breached the slipway and wall. They 
considered that H was wrong to draw attention to the installation of ineffective weep holes as 
they considered that weep holes were not a necessary part of the walls design in any case. 
They considered H was wrong to conclude, contrary to the findings of B and T, that the 
storm hadnt caused the damage.
Fairmead continued to decline the claim. It stood by Hs findings in respect of wave height 
during the storm and said that while the seawater may have overtopped the slipway during 
the storm it was unlikely to have come over the top of the wall. It accepted that weep holes 
were not essential but nonetheless considered that if the installed weep holes had been 
effective, rather than terminating at the concrete infill behind the wall, this would have 
reduced the force acting against the rear of the wall. It pointed out that in the 2017 survey, W 
had noted movement in the wall, and also a crack between the wall and a neighbouring wall 
indicating differential movement between the two properties. It considered that movement 
and cracking had been taking place over a period of time and that the storm hadnt therefore 
caused the damage.
Mr and Mrs C complained about Fairmeads decision. In November 2019, Fairmead issued a 
final response letter confirming that it was declining the claim for the reasons it had already 
given.
Mr and Mrs C continued to dispute the decision. They provided evidence from the local 
harbour master which they believed showed that H hadnt properly taken account of local 
factors when estimating the wave height during the storm and that in fact these waves would 
have repeatedly reached behind the wall, either via the slipway or directly over the wall. 
They disputed that the wall was suffering from cracking or movement before the storm and 
pointed out that both B (who was aware of the 2017 survey report) and T had concluded that 
the damage was storm-related. They said that W had qualified his reference to the cracking 
by stating that this was likely to be mortar washout rather than movement. They considered 
that the most likely explanation for the failure was that the storm had allowed a void to be 
opened between the outer wall and a rear reinforced concrete wall. They said they were 
shortly going to begin remedial works to avoid further deterioration and invited Fairmead or 
its experts to visit the site when this remedial work was underway.
H attended the site once excavations were underway. He noted that, as he had expected, 
there was a secondary stone wall approximately 1.2m behind the external wall and the top of 
this was approximately 1.5m below the top of the external wall. He noted that the area 
between the walls had originally been infilled with a mix of stones and concrete. H 
considered that the secondary wall would likely reduce the total soil pressure acting on the 
external wall but would not reduce the total water pressure. He thought that every time the 
tide rose or rain fell, water would fill up voids between the two walls and it was the pressure 
over time on the rear of the wall from this water, and from the soil, which caused the walls 
failure.
In light of Hs conclusions, Fairmead continued to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy at Fairmeads decision. They referred their complaint to us. 
They provided an updated report by W in which it said that, in his opinion, the pre-existing 
damage noted in its report of 2017 was unrelated to the more recent damage which 
appeared to be caused by the storm.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, 
Fairmead had acted reasonably in declining the claim on the basis that the wall had 
gradually weakened over time and the storm had merely highlighted this damage rather than 
caused it.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. They made the following points:
As with all sea walls, water finds its way into any nooks and crannies as the tide comes 
in and then finds its way out again as the tide falls. They therefore disputed that there 
could have been any build-up of water pressure over time as the water would simply flow 
away each time.The existence of the intact secondary wall a metre or so behind the external wall, and 
the concrete and rock fill in between, meant there could not have been a gradual build up 
of soil pressure acting against the external wall.
The previous movement in the wall, as confirmed by W, was very long-standing and 
unrelated to the recent damage. The only crack apparent in 2017 was the interface 
between the property and the neighbours wall which, in Bs opinion, was either simply 
mortar wash out or normal relative movement between two properties exacerbated by 
mortar wash out. There was therefore no evidence of ongoing movement.
The fact that the weep holes had been installed in such a way as to be ineffective made 
no difference because these werent needed in any case.
In view of the above, they considered the damage to their wall hadnt occurred gradually but 
was caused by the storm. They considered the most likely explanation, as put forward by B, 
was that waves opened an interface at the top of the wall and this resulted in sudden 
extraordinary hydraulic pressures to occur between the stone and concrete backing, 
resulting in the cracks.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have examined the various expert reports.
It appears that a V-shaped section of the wall failed in 2014 and was rebuilt in 2015. The 
void between the new section of wall and an existing secondary wall behind this had then 
been filled with a mixture of concrete and stone.
When B examined the wall following the storm, he noted that the external wall had moved 
outwards by the slipway landing and was now significantly bulged in the area of the steps. 
He considered that this area of wall had failed which, in turn, had dragged the rebuilt section 
of wall and slipway above outwards. This had allowed water to penetrate the area behind the 
external wall and the pressure from this had resulted in cracking and caused the wall to fail. 
He said the recent failure was likely attributable to the storm.
The structural engineer noted that the wall had numerous cracks and was also bulging in the 
area of the steps. He considered that one possible cause of this failure was water ingress 
behind the wall resulting in a build-up of hydrostatic pressure on the wall. He recommended 
that further investigations be undertaken.
In Ws residential building survey report of 2017, he noted various defects, most of which 
were long-standing. The main defect related to a bulge at lower level by the steps. There 
was also a vertical crack evident where the wall joined the neighbours wall, which he said 
represented differential movement between the two walls.
When W returned to examine the wall following the storm, he noted that new cracking had 
appeared in the wall. W reported that the new cracking was not related in any way to the 
vertical crack which existed previously. He further said that he didnt believe the evidence 
proved that the new damage to the wall which had occurred following the storm was directly 
caused by any of the pre-existing damage.When H examined the wall, he noted that there had been historical movement of the wall. 
He also noted that weep holes which had been inserted as part of the 2015 re-build came to 
an end at the concrete infill behind the wall and therefore served no purpose. He considered 
that the addition of the concrete infill in 2015 and the ineffectiveness of the weep holes 
would have resulted in water accumulating within the ground behind the wall and that this 
would have increased the forces from water acting behind the wall. He considered that it was 
these forces acting against the rear of the wall which caused the wall to fail. While the storm 
may have increased these forces by virtue of the rainfall, he did not consider the storm to be 
the cause of the walls failure.
H re-visited the property once excavations were underway. He noted, as expected, the 
presence of a secondary wall behind the external wall and said that this would likely reduce 
the total soil pressure acting on the external wall. However, he said it would not reduce the 
total water pressure. He said each time the tide rose, water would fill the void behind the wall 
and when the tide fell, the trapped water (because the weep holes were ineffective) would be 
exerting pressure against the rear of the wall. He considered it was this pressure which, over 
time, had caused the wall to fail.
After weighing up all the evidence, I consider that H has given the most plausible 
explanation of how the damage occurred. There seems to be a general consensus that the 
damage has resulted from pressure behind the wall. B said that the recent damage had 
been caused by water which had entered a crack between the wall and the concrete patio 
slab behind, but I dont consider that B has reasonably shown that this crack developed as a 
result of the storm. It seems to me that, as H suggests, it was more likely due to the long-
term soil and water pressure which had caused the historic bulge and which was continuing 
to force the wall outwards. This was particularly so after the 2015 rebuild which allowed 
water to build up in the void with no means of escape.
It seems that the new damage only became evident following the storm. This might be, as 
Mr and Mrs C believe, because of waves breaching the wall and falling into the crack which 
had developed between the wall and the concrete slab or, as H believes, because of rainfall 
doing this. However, while there is a dispute over whether the waves could have breached 
the wall, I dont consider I need to resolve this. This is because I dont believe the storm 
waves, even if they breached the wall, would have caused the damage; they would merely 
have highlighted the existing defect.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by certain perils, including storm. However, 
the policy doesnt provide cover in other circumstances and specifically excludes cover for 
damage caused by wear and tear. In the circumstances, I consider it was reasonable for 
Fairmead to say that the damage which became evident following the storm had actually 
been caused gradually rather than suddenly by the storm itself. I therefore consider it was 
fair for Fairmead to decline the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman