DRN-4113487
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) held incorrect 
information about him and made errors.
What happened
Mr M applied to L&G for a life insurance policy through an independent financial adviser. On 
the application, the adviser answered yes to a question which Mr M says isnt correct. As a 
result of the answer to the question, L&G requested medical information but Mr M wasnt 
happy about this and cancelled the application.
Mr M complained to L&G. It looked into the complaint and found the information was 
incorrectly submitted by the independent adviser so it couldnt be held responsible for this. 
But it had also referred to him by the wrong name and identified customer service issues and 
so it paid him £350 compensation. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint and found that the £350 compensation offered was reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think L&G has done enough and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further. Ill explain why. 
L&G cant be held responsible for the information provided by the independent 
adviser. Mr M has raised a separate complaint about the adviser which doesnt form 
part of this decision. 
L&G asked for additional medical information as a result of the answer on the 
application. It is entitled to do this. 
L&G had recorded Mr Ms first name incorrectly on its system. It corrected his name 
as soon as this was brought to its attention. 
Mr M also complained about the service he received during phone calls with L&G. 
L&G accepted that the service during its calls could have been better.
Taking the phone calls and the name mistake into account, L&G paid Mr M £350 
compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr M didnt think this was enough and remains unhappy about the incorrect 
information provided by the independent adviser. But this isnt something L&G can be 
held responsible for.
I think £350 compensation overall is appropriate as the errors which L&G was 
responsible for werent long lasting or prolonged. So I wont be asking L&G to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman