DRN-4377344
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited wouldnt consider a 
claim for total permanent disability (TPD) on an own occupation basis. He says his policy 
was wrongly set up and wants Royal London to pay the benefit.
What happened
To summarise, in 2001, Mr R took out personal protection insurance, through a broker. The 
policy included cover for critical illness, terminal illness and TPD. Mr R was an army medic 
and wanted cover that would protect him beyond his army benefits. Mr R believed the TPD 
cover had been set up on an own occupation basis. 
Unfortunately, in 2022, Mr R was medically discharged from the army due to ill health. He 
sought to claim on his policy, as he was no longer able to do his job. 
Royal London explained to Mr R that his policy did not include TPD on an own occupation 
basis. Rather, the eligibility criteria for his policy was on the basis of functional ability tests 
(FATs). This resulted in Mr R being unable to claim following his medical discharge, as he 
didnt meet the FATs criteria, which require a more severe level of disability than own 
occupation cover.
Mr R complained, but Royal London didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr Rs policy 
was accepted with TPD on a FATs basis because of Mr Rs occupation. Royal London also 
said its underwriting decision was communicated to Mr Rs broker, who confirmed FATs was 
ok. Mr R says he was never told about the change and believed his cover was on an own 
occupation basis. He says Royal London shouldnt have provided cover to him at all, if own 
occupation wasnt available.
Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked into 
things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator thought Royal London had 
acted fairly in deciding to offer TPD cover on a FATs basis. And he was satisfied Royal 
London had provided Mr R with clear information about the basis of cover, when it sent him 
post-sale policy confirmation documents. 
Mr R disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. I understand Mr R has 
made a separate complaint about the broker who sold him his policy. For the avoidance of 
any doubt, my decision relates solely to Mr Rs complaint about Royal London, the insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be unwelcome news for Mr 
R and Im sorry about that. I acknowledge this has been a stressful and upsetting time for Mr 
R, since he realised his policy didnt provide the cover he thought it did. A summary of my 
reasons is given below, focusing on the key points and evidence I consider material to my 
decision. So, if Ive not referred to something in particular, its not because I havent thought 
about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint. 
From the evidence, I can see that more than one quotation was produced for Mr R during 
the sales process. These quotations all say that TPD is included on an own occupation, 
functional ability tests and an activities of daily living basis. 
Mr Rs application was submitted by his broker and subject to Royal Londons underwriting 
process. On the application form, Mr Rs occupation was listed as medical doctor. But 
information was also provided confirming that Mr R expected to change his occupation to 
army doctor within the next six months. He disclosed that it was possible he would spend 
more than three months each year outside the UK on overseas postings. And that he would 
engage in activities that might be regarded as hazardous, including routine army duties and 
exercises, with the possibility of parachuting. 
This information proved central to Royal Londons underwriting decision. Ive seen 
underwriting evidence supporting Royal Londons decision not to offer cover to Mr R on an 
own occupation basis. Im satisfied Royal London applied its underwriting criteria fairly in its 
assessment of Mr Rs application. Ultimately, an insurer is entitled to decide which risks its 
prepared to cover and on what basis. 
Royal London says Mr Rs broker confirmed the basis of cover at inception. As the seller of 
the policy, it was the brokers responsibility to ensure the policy met Mr Rs needs. I 
understand Mr Rs position  that he wasnt consulted on the basis of cover and didnt know 
his cover was not on an own occupation basis. Those issues are not for me to comment on 
as they relate to a separate complaint. But I have looked at whether Royal London provided 
information to Mr R that was clear. 
Shortly after his policy commenced, Royal London sent Mr R documents confirming his 
cover. This information included details about Mr Rs right to change his mind and cancel 
within 14 days without any penalty. The information asks:
Do you understand what your policy will do for you? 
It provides a personalised key features document which, under a section entitled what are 
my plan benefits and when will they be paid states:
Total Permanent Disability Benefit is included on a Functional Ability Tests basis.
I understand Mr Rs argument - that he had no reason to question his cover, having relied on 
his brokers advice. But in terms of Royal Londons actions, I think Mr R was asked to check 
his cover and signposted towards the key features section. And to my mind, the details of his  
cover are clearly and prominently set out. So Im satisfied this information was available to 
Mr R shortly after the policy commenced and he had the opportunity to cancel without 
penalty if he wasnt happy with the policy. 
Finally, for completeness, Mr R has argued that he lost opportunity to become aware of the 
basis of his cover in 2011 and 2016. Mr R says he was told by Royal London in 2018 that 
these reviews didnt happen. But Ive seen copies of the indexation review letters from 2011 
and 2016, so it seems to me that the scheduled reviews did take place. The letters are 
addressed to Mr R, although I appreciate it seems he didnt receive them. Nevertheless, they 
were sent to the addresses on file for Mr R, so I dont accept Mr Rs argument.Overall, Im satisfied Royal London acted fairly in applying its underwriting criteria and 
offering TPD cover on a FATs basis. Im also satisfied the information sent to Mr R after the 
policy was set up was clear about the basis of cover. It follows I dont uphold this complaint. 
Once again, Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman