DRN-2304744
Complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
Mr Ds complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy, which ran alongside a credit card he took 
out in December 1994.  Its not clear when the PPI was added to Mr Ds account, but Lloyds 
has told us its likely it was sold to Mr D somewhere between December 1999 and January 
2000.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mr Ds outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if he was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
10% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr D that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Lloyds says it would have done this. But Mr D says he 
only agreed to take the PPI because he was told he would have a better chance of getting 
the credit card if he did.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. As I cant know what, if anything, was said, I need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mr D would have been sold his PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Lloyds sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr D would 
have been given an option to take out the PPI. It follows, with it being an optional product, I 
think Mr D would have known he didnt have to have it to get the card. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr D was aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose 
to take it at the time. 
Mr D says that he was advised to take the policy. Lloyds doesnt know, so its reviewed the 
sale as though it did give him advice. I think this is fair as it puts more responsibility on 
Lloyds to check the policy was suitable for Mr D, in addition to giving him enough information 
about the policy so he could decide whether to take it or not.
Based on what Mr Ds told us about his circumstances at the time, I think its more likely than 
not that the policy was suitable for him and I dont think better information would have 
changed his decision to take the policy.
From the information Ive seen, Mr D would have been eligible for the policy and he doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have made it harder for him to 
claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or unusual employment 
circumstances.
Mr D says he would have received six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he 
was off sick from work. He says he was also entitled to redundancy pay, but he didnt have 
any other ways of making his repayments. 
While Mr Cs employee benefits were good, the policy would have paid out on top of 
anything he received from his employer. And Mr C could have claimed again subject to a 
requalification period. So, I think Mr C still could have found the cover useful if he fell on hard 
times, particularly if he was still off work when his sick pay entitlement reduced by half. 
Mr D says he was having difficulty with his finances at the time and he could not afford to 
pay for anything that wasnt essential. Ive thought carefully about what hes said, but the 
policy was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and I havent seen any other 
evidence that it was unaffordable for him when it was initially taken. Should the worst have 
happened  the policy could have allowed him to at least keep up with his credit card 
repayments.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr D about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr D, I think its unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information had 
been given to him. And as the policy was paid for monthly, if he later felt the policy was 
unaffordable for him or that he no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman