DRN-3319360
The complaint
Mr P complains that First Response Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from First 
Response. Mr P was required to make 24 monthly repayments of £261. The total repayable 
under the agreement was £6,264.
Mr P says that First Response didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. First Response didnt agree. It 
said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and affordability 
assessment. It says it requested three months bank statements and based on its checks the 
agreement was affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought First Response 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said that his only income was £500 a month along with benefit 
payments.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, First Response gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr P about his ability to repay. It completed a credit 
check and while this showed some adverse information this was questioned and 
factored into its assessment. It also reviewed three months of Mr Ps bank 
statements and assessed his income and expenditure. 
Although I thought First Response carried out proportionate checks, that didnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. 
The bank statements for the months prior to the application were joint account 
statements and I considered the total income and expenses. First Response had 
income recorded as around £2,400. I agreed with the benefit income totalling around 
£1,500 a month but couldnt find evidence in Mr Ps bank statements of him earning 
£860 a month and instead saw his work schedule showed he earned £500. This gave 
a total monthly income of just over £2,000.
First Response gathered about Mr Ps expenses and used statistical databases to 
assess certain expenses. However, as the bank statements were provided I thought 
it reasonable the information in these was relied on. These showed that Mr P had 
higher household expenses than were included. Taking into account his regular living 
expenses such as food, bills, utilities and credit commitments his expenses totalled 
around £2,000 suggesting that all of his monthly income was being used to meet his 
outgoings. 
The overall situation on the bank statements showed Mr Ps account in continued 
overdraft and the situation getting worse over the months leading up to the 
agreement. 
As the bank statements suggested Mr P wasnt left with any disposable income and 
his financial situation seemed to be deteriorating, I didnt think that this agreement 
should have been considered affordable.
Mr P and First Response both accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Response will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the checks carried out by First Response were 
proportionate. However, I think the checks showed that Mr P didnt have sufficient 
disposable income to make the repayments due under the agreement. Therefore, I dont 
think First Response should have provided this lending.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and my conclusion remains that I uphold this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
As I dont think First Response Finance Ltd ought to have approved the lending, I dont think 
its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr P should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £4,300. Anything Mr P 
has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
To settle Mr Ps complaint First Response should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr P has made in excess of £4,300, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires First Response to take off tax from this interest. First 
Response must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr P asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct First Response Finance Ltd to put things right in the 
manner set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman