DRN-3320680
The complaint
Mr M complains that Next Retail Limited increased his credit limit irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M opened a credit account with Next in December 2007. Mr Ms credit limit fluctuated 
over the years but was increased to £5,000 in March 2018. Mr M contacted Next in          
July 2021. He said Next hadnt done enough checks to ensure the credit it provided to him 
was affordable. 
Next looked into Mr Ms complaint but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
undertaken the required eligibility checks before approving any credit limit increases. So, it 
didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with Nexts response Mr M referred his complaint to us. At this point, Mr M told us 
he was only complaining about the limit increase in March 2018 as - by this point, he was in 
receipt of state benefits. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think Next had done 
anything wrong. She thought Next had carried out enough checks when it increased Mr Ms 
credit limit in March 2018. And she didnt think the checks indicated that Mr M was in 
financial difficulties or struggling to pay his credit commitments at that time.  
Mr M didnt agree, and he asked for his complaint to be reviewed again. So, his complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the credit limit was approved in March 2018. 
Next is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the credit 
limit it was giving to Mr M was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to be 
proportionate to things like the amount of the credit being given, how much had to be repaid 
each month (including interest and charges), Mr Ms borrowing history with it and what it 
knew about him. But there is no set list of checks it had to do. 
Next says when it approved the limit increase to £5,000 in March 2018, Mr M had been an 
account holder since 2007 and managed his account well  with no arrears or late payments 
and the balance never exceeded £691. And that it completed an external credit search 
through the credit reference agencies.  
Ive looked at Nexts records which show the data it received from the credit search in 
conjunction with a copy of Mr Ms credit file which he has provided. And while this shows that 
Mr M had other credit commitments, I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr M  
had any defaults, adverse public records, or any accounts in arrears with other creditors at 
this time. 
I note Mr M says he was receiving state benefits at the time. But being a recipient of state 
benefits isnt  by itself, a reason to decline a credit facility. And, like the investigator, I 
havent found anything that I think should have prompted Next to think Mr M was in financial 
difficulty or that further checks were needed in March 2018 to verify any of the information it 
held about him. 
I can see that Mr Ms circumstances have since deteriorated. But Next wouldnt have known 
that this might happen when it approved the credit limit increase. I dont think it would have 
reason to doubt or disbelieve the other information it held about Mr M at the time it increased 
Mr Ms credit limit. It follows that I dont agree with Mr M that Next lent irresponsibly at this 
stage.
I do very much sympathise with Mr Ms financial difficulties and his more recent medical 
diagnosis and I understand he will be disappointed with the outcome I have reached. But, 
ultimately, I have to consider whether Next did anything wrong when the credit limit was 
approved, and I dont consider it did. So, it follows that I cant fairly uphold the complaint.
Your text here
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against     
Next Retail Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman