DRN-4237906
The complaint
Mrs B complains because Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) hasnt paid a claim for total 
permanent disability benefit under her life and critical illness insurance policy. 
Mrs B also complains about Zurichs delay in dealing with her claim. 
What happened
Mrs B holds decreasing term life and critical illness insurance, underwritten by Zurich.
In November 2021, Mrs B made a claim for total permanent disability benefit. In December
2021, Zurich sent Mrs B an occupational questionnaire to complete. Later the same month,
Zurich sent a medical report to Mrs Bs doctor for completion and let Mrs B know it had done
this, as well as confirming details of when shed next be updated.
Zurich sent Mrs B a final response letter in January 2022, in response to her complaint about
its delays, saying someone was on leave and that it had told Mrs B this. However, Zurich
paid Mrs B £60 compensation in respect of its initial delays in assessing her completed claim
form.
Mrs Bs doctor replied to Zurich with the information it had asked for in February 2022.
Zurich then asked Mrs Bs former employer for the job description for her former role, which
it received in March 2022.
In April 2022, Zurich sent Mrs B another final response letter saying it was in the process of
reviewing the information that had been provided by her former employer.
In June 2022, Mrs B brought her complaint to our service.
In July 2022, Zurich told Mrs B that her claim wasnt covered under her policy. Zurich said
this was because Mrs B had said on her policy application form, completed in September
2014, that driving wasnt essential for her to perform her job. Zurich said the occupational
questionnaire completed by Mrs B and the job description provided by her former employer
indicated that Mrs B drove significant mileage as an essential part of her occupation and, if it
had been told about this when the policy was taken out, it wouldnt have offered her cover on
the same terms. Zurich said it could amend Mrs Bs policy retrospectively to remove cover
for total permanent disability benefit or, alternatively, it offered to cancel her policy and
refund the total premiums shed paid. Zurich didnt issue a final response letter about its
decision to decline Mrs Bs claim but has consented to our service considering the complaint
in its entirety
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said he thought Zurich should reassess
Mrs Bs claim and pay her £250 compensation for its error in declining it. Mrs B accepted our
investigators opinion but Zurich didnt, so the complaint was referred to me as the final
stage in our process.
In the meantime, Zurich obtained additional evidence from Mrs Bs former employer about 
the level of driving that was involved in her role in 2014. I shared this evidence with
Mrs B. Mrs B subsequently withdrew her consent for her former employer to release any 
further information about her former employment.
I made my provisional decision about Mrs Bs complaint in June 2023. In it, I said:
When considering Zurichs actions in this case, Ive taken into account the relevant law (The
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also had
regard to good industry practice about misrepresentation, treating customers fairly and
managing claims (namely the 2019 Code of Practice set out by the Association of British
Insurers), as well as what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable
consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For a
misrepresentation to be a qualifying one, the insurer must show it would have offered the
policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because
of how she answered a question she was asked on the insurance policy application
completed in September 2014. Mrs B answered no in response to the following question,
which I think was both clear and specific:
Other than driving to and from your usual place of work, is driving essential for you to
perform your job?
Ive considered everything Mrs B has told us about her occupation as it was in 2014. I accept
that the nature of Mrs Bs role has changed over time, and that its difficult to quantify exactly
how much driving was involved at a particular point in time. Mrs B told us she didnt drive as
part of her role when she applied for this policy.
The new information provided by Mrs Bs former employer says:
The  job role has not changed significantly over the years although the level of
complexity increased and the caseloads increased.
Yes the role always involved driving but this definitely increased over the years as
the caseloads grew. Between 2010 and 2019 the role was not locality based and
[Mrs B] often had the very rural/remote caseload so lots of driving
I understand Mrs B disputes some of this information, and questions whether the employee
who provided the information would be clear on what her role involved. However, I think the
evidence from Mrs Bs former employer carries significant persuasive weight. Ive also
considered the job description provided by Mrs Bs former employer (which, although the
document creation date post-dates the policy application, refers to driving as an essential
part of the role) and a call between Mrs B and Zurich in June 2022 when Mrs B said it was
hard to say how much driving she did in 2014.
Overall, I think its more likely than not that Mrs Bs occupation in 2014 did involve essential
driving other than to and from her usual place of work which a reasonable consumer would
have realised that Zurich wanted to know about in response to the question asked.This means that I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
about the level of driving involved in her occupation when she took out this policy.
However, I dont think Zurich has demonstrated that Mrs B made a qualifying
misrepresentation under CIDRA. To do this Zurich needs to show that, without the
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have entered into the contract at all, or would have done so
only on different terms.
Mrs Bs former employer has said:
Between 2010 and 2019  from recollection it was around 500 miles + per month =
probably nearer 8000 annually.
Zurich says this information is hugely at odds with the information which Mrs B provided on
her occupational questionnaire. However, as Ive already mentioned above, I think the
evidence from Mrs Bs former employer has significant persuasive weight. Furthermore,
although the occupational questionnaire asks for details of Mrs Bs occupation at the time of
policy commencement, I note that Zurichs covering letter to Mrs B enclosing the
questionnaire refers to her occupation immediately before she became unfit to work. So, Im
not satisfied that the information contained in the completed questionnaire can fairly be
relied upon by Zurich as an accurate reflection of the level of driving Mrs B did in 2014.
Overall, based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that Mrs B was
driving approximately 8000 miles annually in 2014.
Zurich has provided evidence showing that it would still have offered cover to Mrs B on the
same terms as it did if she had told it she was driving this level of mileage as part of her
occupation. So, I dont think Zurich has demonstrated that there has been a qualifying
misrepresentation under CIDRA which means it isnt entitled to any of the available remedies
for careless misrepresentation (which is how it has treated this situation).
Mrs Bs former employer told Zurich that Finance may be able to track exact mileage.
Zurich has since contacted the former employer again to ask for these details, but Mrs B has
withdrawn her consent for any further information to be released.
An insurer is entitled to carry out reasonable investigations to satisfy itself that a claim is
covered and Id generally expect a policyholder to co-operate with any such enquiries if they
want to have their claim paid. So, ordinarily I wouldnt direct an insurer to reassess or accept
a claim in a situation where a policyholder has refused to consent to information being
released by a third party in response to reasonable enquiries.
However, based on the very specific and individual circumstances of this case  including
the fact that Zurich has had since March 2022 to request any information it needed from Mrs
Bs former employer to support its decline of her claim and Mrs Bs financial situation as well
as her declining health  I dont think Mrs Bs refusal to allow her former employer to release
any further information to Zurich should prevent her claim from being reconsidered. In any
event, based on the evidence Ive seen, it seems uncertain whether Mrs Bs former employer
would now be able to confirm what the exact mileage was.
This means I currently intend to direct Zurich to reconsider Mrs Bs claim. Id expect Zurich to
do so promptly but, if Zurich reasonably requires further medical information to assess the
claim, then its entitled to request this.
Zurich has already paid Mrs B £60 compensation for its delays in assessing the claimbetween November 2021 and January 2022. I dont think Zurich handled Mrs Bs claim
promptly or provided her with appropriate information on the progress of her claim between
February 2022 and July 2022, as required under industry rules. Im satisfied that additional
compensation is warranted for the impact of these further delays on Mrs B. I think a payment
of £190 compensation (making a total of £250 compensation overall) would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
Zurich didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
Mrs Bs assertion that she didnt drive as part of her role when she took out the policy 
is at odds with what she told Zurich during her telephone call with it in June 2022; 
it declined the claim based on Mrs Bs completed occupational questionnaire and the 
job description provided by her former employer and it only sought further information 
from Mrs Bs former employer because of her assertion to our service that she 
completed the occupational questionnaire incorrectly (which is directly at odds with 
what Mrs B told Zurich during the telephone call in June 2022). Zurich says it didnt 
feel there was a need to verify the job description provided by Mrs Bs former 
employer until our investigators involvement;
the new information provided by Mrs Bs former employer is not based on any 
evidence whatsoever and even Mrs B has questioned whether the individual 
providing the information would have known what her role entailed. The completed 
occupational questionnaire is more reliable than the estimates and recollections of an 
individual at Mrs Bs former employer about what her position was some 9 years 
earlier, and there are no grounds upon which to dismiss the occupational 
questionnaire entirely. 
I previously gave Zurich the opportunity to verify the position with Mrs Bs former 
employer but, now that Mrs B has withdrawn her consent to information being 
shared, its unfair that I am prepared to take the new information from Mrs Bs former 
employer at face value. 
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision but queried what further medical information Zurich 
could need in order to accept her claim, and said she was fearful that Zurich would prolong 
the matter even further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to Zurichs response to my provisional decision. 
I accept that Mrs B has provided contradictory information about whether her role involved 
driving in 2014. Id reiterate that Im satisfied its likely Mrs Bs role did involve essential 
driving other than to or from her place of work at that time. So, Im not disputing that Mrs B 
made a misrepresentation  which Zurich has treated as careless. However, what is in 
dispute is the level of driving involved and whether Mrs B made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
I also accept that it seems to be very hard to quantify how much driving was involved in Mrs 
Bs role in 2014 and Zurich has acknowledged that its difficult for Mrs B to be precise about 
this. None of the evidence currently available in this case is conclusive as to the level of 
driving involved in Mrs Bs role in 2014, but Im entitled to base my decision on the evidence currently available to me and Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to both parties if I do 
so in this case. 
Mrs B told our service that she completed the occupational questionnaire based on her role 
as it was more recently (and not in 2014). I think the wording of Mrs Bs covering email and 
completed questionnaire supports this, as she repeatedly described the position in the 
current  and not in the past  tense. Mrs B doesnt appear to have ever told Zurich this 
directly, but I think this is understandable as Mrs Bs complaint was already with our service 
at the point when Zurich declined her claim. And I dont agree that what Mrs B has told us 
about the completed occupational questionnaire contradicts anything Mrs B told Zurich 
during the telephone call in June 2022. I note that the heading on the occupational 
questionnaire asking for details of occupation at the time of policy commencement is clear 
but, as set out in my provisional decision, the covering email which Zurich sent to Mrs B was 
contradictory. Contrary to what Zurich has said, I havent dismissed the content of the 
occupational questionnaire as evidence  Ive considered it fully but, instead, have given 
other evidence more persuasive weight. 
That evidence is the new information provided by Mrs Bs former employer. Ive taken into 
account everything Zurich has said about this, including Zurichs comments that theres no 
evidence to support what has been said, the length of time that has passed and Mrs Bs 
remarks about the individual that provided the information. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained both here and in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that the new 
information from Mrs Bs former employer  as evidence from a third party with no apparent 
vested interest in the claim - carries more persuasive weight than Mrs Bs completed 
occupational questionnaire.  
Generally, I would expect a policyholder to fully co-operate with an insurers reasonable 
enquiries. This would include agreeing to the release of information from relevant third 
parties such as a former employer. But Zurich had the opportunity to fully interrogate the 
available evidence, and to obtain additional supporting evidence, before it declined Mrs Bs 
claim. Its for Zurich to demonstrate that Mrs B made a qualifying misrepresentation if it 
wishes to invoke the remedies set out under CIDRA and I dont think the evidence which 
Zurich had at the point of claim declination necessarily supported such a conclusion. While 
the creation date of the job description alone may not have been a reason to question the 
documents contents, the job description doesnt confirm the mileage that Mrs B was required 
to drive in her role. I note that an email from Mrs Bs former employer to Zurich dated 16 
March 2022 says the job description was requested in place of a form that had been sent to 
the former employer to be completed. So, I remain satisfied that Zurich had the opportunity 
to request any further information it needed about what mileage Mrs B was driving in 2014 
from March 2022. Zurich also had the opportunity to ask for Mrs Bs former employers 
finance department to track Mrs Bs exact mileage from when it first received the new 
information in March 2023, without waiting for an explicit invitation from our service about 
whether it wished to consider doing this. Based on the individual circumstances of this case, 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to treat the fact that Mrs B has now withdrawn her 
consent to information being shared by a third party as fatal to the reconsideration of her 
claim.
So, for these reasons, as well as the reasons set out in my provisional decision, Im 
upholding Mrs Bs complaint. This includes a direction for Zurich to reconsider Mrs Bs claim, 
subject to the provision of any additional medical evidence which Zurich may reasonably 
require.  
Neither Zurichs refusal to pay Mrs Bs claim nor Mrs Bs complaint to our service related to 
the medical information in this case. So, I havent considered and have no power to make a 
determination about whether the available medical evidence is sufficient for Zurich to accept Mrs Bs claim within this final decision. Its for Zurich to decide, in the first instance, if it has 
the medical evidence it requires. I can understand why Mrs B is concerned that this issue 
may cause further delays but, if there is reasonable additional medical information which 
Zurich needs, its entitled to request this. If Mrs B is unhappy with any such request for 
further information, or with the time Zurich takes to now reconsider her claim, shed need to 
complain directly to Zurich about the matter before bringing a new complaint to our service. 
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd must put things right and do the following:
reconsider Mrs Bs claim, accepting that there was no qualifying misrepresentation at 
application stage;
pay Mrs B £190 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint against Zurich Assurance Ltd and I direct it to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman