DRN-2540997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Legal and General Insurance Limited, now called Fairmead
Insurance Limited, declined two claims they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G bought their property in September 2019. They took out their home insurance 
a few days after purchase. A few weeks after theyd moved into their property, they said they 
noticed there was some distortion to the floorboards beneath the lino in the downstairs 
bathroom and that the floor in the kitchen felt soft underfoot.
Before they bought their property, Mr and Mrs G commissioned a full structural survey, 
which was completed around two months before they moved in. The survey included an 
assessment of internal walls and floors and didnt note any issues with the downstairs 
bathroom or kitchen floors.
Mr G called Fairmead after hed arranged a specialist firm, D to carry out a leak detection 
survey. Mr G told Fairmead he thought the leaks had happened before hed moved into the 
property and Fairmead said there was potential cover in place regardless of whether or not 
the damage happened when the previous owners lived at the property.
Ds survey didnt find any active leaks in the kitchen or the downstairs bathroom. It said the 
kitchen floor water damage appeared to be historic, was most likely caused by an escape of 
water from the services within the kitchen and had caused decay and darkening. It said the 
water damage to the downstairs bathroom floor had most likely been caused by an escape 
of water from the pipe connecting the WC to the cistern and that there was mould on the 
water damage. D recommended that drying systems be installed, the downstairs bathroom 
floor and vanity unit be removed and the kitchen floor coverings be removed.
Fairmeads loss adjuster (LA) assessed the damage to the kitchen floor. LA thought the 
previous owners dishwasher may have leaked and that Mr and Mrs G had inherited the 
previous owners damage. LA took photos that showed the kitchen floor was continuous into 
the utility room. LA didnt appear to carry out its own assessment of the downstairs 
bathroom. Mr and Mrs G sent Fairmead a copy of Ds report.
Fairmead declined Mr and Mrs Gs claims because it thought the escapes of water occurred 
before inception of their policy. Mr and Mrs G felt Fairmead had told them the claims would 
be covered and so wanted it to act on that. Mr and Mrs G were also unhappy LA had been 
appointed even though theyd told Fairmead the damage was historical and Fairmead would 
have only declined the claims. They said LAs inspection delayed them putting right the 
damage themselves for three weeks. Fairmead said it had appointed LA to find out when the 
leaks occurred. 
  
Fairmead issued its final response letter. It said the damage present was not the result of a
recent issue with the dishwasher and appeared to have been ongoing for some time. 
Fairmead said Mr G told it the leak had been ongoing. Fairmead said the call handler should 
have explained the claim would be declined if the cause of the damage occurred prior to the 
start date of the policy and offered them £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to us. They felt Fairmead should cover their claims. 
They wanted more compensation and were unhappy Fairmead said theyd told it the 
escapes of water were ongoing when they hadnt.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think it unreasonable that LA 
attended despite the damage being pre-existing, as it would have been unfair for Fairmead 
to decline the claim without investigating it. She said Mr and Mrs G would still have had to 
repair their property and felt £50 was reasonable compensation. Our investigator didnt give 
a view on whether Fairmead should have declined the claims.
Mr and Mrs G requested an ombudsmans decision. They felt our investigator hadnt 
properly taken into account that theyd been told theyd be covered. They felt the 
compensation wasnt enough for the time theyd taken off work for LAs visit, the time theyd 
spent pursuing the claim and for being left without a proper floor over Christmas.
Mr and Mrs G provided photos showing theyd replaced the kitchen floor which was 
continuous into the utility room. Theyd replaced the downstairs bathroom floor covering but 
hadnt replaced the WC and vanity unit because of budget issues.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint by 
requiring Fairmead to accept their claims and to pay compensation for the trouble and upset 
it caused them by its handling and decision on their claims.
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 
I can see that their policy covers escape of water. And that the policy under the 
Definitions section in the Home Policy Wording of the documentation on page 18 it says 
that buildings includes wooden, laminate and vinyl floor coverings.
So I am satisfied that damage caused by escapes of water to flooring of the type Mr and Mrs 
G had in their kitchen and downstairs bathroom is an insured event. But Fairmead declined 
Mr and Mrs Gs claims because the escapes of water occurred before the start date of their 
policy. 
Under the General Exceptions heading of Mr and Mrs Gs policy wording it says:
Your insurer will not pay for:..Existing damage. Any loss, damage, injury or accident 
occurring, or arising from, an event, before the period of insurance commences.
It would appear that the escapes of water most likely happened before Mr and Mrs G moved 
into their property. But I dont think its fair for Fairmead to have declined their claims for this 
reason. Ill explain why.Before purchasing their property, Mr and Mrs G commissioned a full structural survey which 
didnt note any issues with the flooring. Mr and Mrs G say they noticed problems with the 
floors a few weeks after theyd moved in. So I dont think on balance anyone  including the 
previous owners or the surveyors  would have known there was damage to the floor before 
the start of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. And as I dont think Mr and Mrs G knew there was existing 
damage, I think its unfair for Fairmead to decline their claims for this reason.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy contains a clause excluding from cover damage that happens 
gradually over time. Our usual approach is that its unfair for insurers to exclude claims on 
these grounds if the consumer wouldnt have reasonably been aware of damage happening 
gradually. Mr and Mrs G didnt live at the property when its likely the escapes of water 
happened. They were prevented from noticing the damage to the floor as it didnt become 
apparent until after inception. Theyd done all they reasonably could as house buyers to 
identify any issues by commissioning a full structural survey. So I dont think it would be fair 
for Fairmead to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claims because the damage happened gradually 
either.
So for the above reasons, I intend to require Fairmead to accept both claims.
Its not unreasonable for Mr and Mrs G to have gone ahead and restored the damage 
themselves when the claims were declined. And because I think it wasnt fair for Fairmead to 
have declined Mr and Mrs Gs claim at the outset, I think Mr and Mrs G should receive back 
from Fairmead what it cost them to restore the damage (less relevant excesses) and not 
what it would have cost Fairmead to carry out the restoration. But I think it would be fair for 
Fairmead to settle any parts of the claims where restoration that hasnt yet commenced in 
line with the above policy terms. I also note Mr and Mrs G have cover for tracing and 
accessing leaks inside the home, and because I think Fairmead should have accepted the 
claims, Im minded to require Fairmead to also pay Mr and Mrs G the cost of Ds report.
I think Mr and Mrs G should be awarded some compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to them by Fairmead declining their claims. Mr and Mrs G say they want more 
compensation than the £50 Fairmead offered them for delays caused by sending LA to 
assess the damage. But I think Fairmead would still have needed to send LA to assess the 
claims if Fairmead had accepted them.
Mr and Mrs G say they were left without a kitchen floor over Christmas. Mr and Mrs G were 
able to restore their kitchen floor themselves, but I cannot make a finding on whether the 
floor would have been restored any sooner if Fairmead had accepted their claim. But I think 
Mr and Mrs Gs downstairs bathroom would have been restored sooner. So I think they 
should be awarded some compensation for the trouble and upset this delay has caused 
them.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead requested and reviewed a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs structural survey report and 
then accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any further comment or 
information. Mr and Mrs G provided some additional arguments and some new information 
in response. 
Mr and Mrs G said that when I issued my provisional decision, theyd already received a 
quote for the restoration of their downstairs bathroom, but that work hadnt yet commenced. 
Mr and Mrs G asked in their response if this quote could instead serve as a fair basis for 
compensation for the work which is due to commence along with another, verbal, 
provisional quote theyd received for fitting costs for about £350.  Mr and Mrs Gs policy says:
If you make a claim or possible claim under this policy, your insurer will at their option:i) 
Repair, reinstate or replace the lost, damaged or stolen property or pay the cost of 
reinstatement through a repair or replacement network nominated by your insurer
Mr and Mrs G were aware of my provisional finding on any outstanding work before 
restoration of their downstairs toilet had begun. And Fairmead accepted my provisional 
decision. So, it wouldnt be fair now for me to instruct Fairmead to pay Mr and Mrs Gs costs 
according their quotes as this could cost Fairmead more than settling the outstanding parts 
of the claim in line with the above policy term. So Fairmead can settle the outstanding parts 
of the claim either by using its own suppliers or by paying Mr and Mrs G what it would have 
cost Fairmead to use its own suppliers and in line with any other relevant policy terms. 
I appreciate this could mean Mr and Mrs G may need to wait a little longer than if they went 
ahead and carried out the work themselves. But the compensation I provisionally awarded 
had taken into account that Mr and Mrs G would be without a downstairs toilet until Fairmead 
settled their claim.
  
Mr and Mrs G said that for two months during 2020, Mr G had to use an upstairs toilet whilst 
on crutches. Mr and Mrs G felt that the provisional compensation wouldnt have taken this 
into account. Im sorry to hear that Mr G injured his leg during 2020, but I still think £400 is 
fair and reasonable compensation for Mr and Mrs Gs trouble and upset because, despite his 
injury, Mr G was able to access another toilet at his property. 
So, for the reasons outlined above I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Fairmead has accepted my provisional decision and Mr and Mrs Gs responses havent 
persuaded me to depart from my provisional findings. So, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Gs complaint in line with my provisional decision and for largely the same reasons. 
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to accept both of 
Mr and Mrs Gs claims.
I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to (subject to relevant policy excesses and Mr and Mrs 
G providing copies of invoices to Fairmead Insurance Limited) to:
pay Mr and Mrs G the costs theyve paid to trace the escapes of water and
pay Mr and Mrs G the costs theyd paid for any restoration theyd undertaken 
because of the escapes of water before receiving my provisional decision. Where restoration work due to the escapes of water hadnt commenced before Mr and Mrs 
G received my provisional decision, I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to settle any 
remaining parts of the claims in line with Mr and Mrs Gs policys terms and conditions. 
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay interest on Mr and Mrs Gs costs from the date 
Mr and Mrs G first notified Fairmead Insurance of their claims at 8% a year simple. If 
Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G a total of £400 for their trouble 
and upset. If Fairmead Insurance Limited has already paid Mr and Mrs G any compensation, 
it should deduct this from the £400 total compensation. 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman