DRN-4495963
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim for medical 
expenses under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F has been represented on this complaint by her husband. He was also the one who 
took out the policy on Mrs Fs behalf. But for ease of reading, Ive only referred to Mrs F in 
this decision. Any reference to Mrs F covers her actions, as well as the actions of her 
husband on her behalf.
Any reference to IPA also includes the actions of its agents.
Mrs F took out a single trip travel insurance policy online through a price comparison website 
on 2 November 2021. The policy was to cover a trip between 17 November 2021 and 
1 January 2022. Mrs F unfortunately had to go to hospital whilst on the trip, and she made a 
claim for the medical expenses to IPA. 
To assess the claim, IPA first asked for Mrs Fs medical records. Following this, IPA declined 
the claim because it said that the policy Mrs F had wasnt suitable for someone with pre-
existing medical conditions within the last two years prior to policy inception. IPA said Mrs F 
hadnt declared the pre-existing medical conditions shed had. Had she done so, it would not 
have sold this policy to her. So, IPA voided the policy from inception and offered to refund 
the premium Mrs F paid.
Mrs F doesnt think she had any conditions she needed to declare. She says she had some 
previous conditions in 2016, so these werent relevant when IPA asked about any pre-
existing conditions in the last two years as the policy was taken out in 2021. She also didnt 
think the issues she had seen a GP about in the last two years were something that needed 
to be declared. These included a chest infection, lower back pain and bilateral calcaneus 
pain. Mrs F says all were self-managed, and IPA never informed her what kind of information 
would be relevant.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs F had taken reasonable care to answer the questions on 
IPAs website about the pre-existing conditions she had in the last two years. IPA had said 
that had she declared these, it would have offered her a different policy that would have 
been more expensive. Based on this, our investigator thought IPA should settle Mrs Fs 
claim proportionately.
IPA didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision in November 2023. 
Heres what I said:
Firstly, industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. And having considered 
everything so far, I dont think IPA handled Mrs Fs claim fairly or reasonably. 
Mrs F has provided an email from November 2021 where she referred to a phone call from 
IPA saying that if her trip went beyond 30 days, her claim wouldnt be covered. But that 
wasnt the right information as Mrs F had a single trip policy covering her entire trip. And 
when IPA declined the claim, it said Mrs F had pre-existing conditions within two years of 
taking out the policy. But it was referring to information on her medical reports dated 
March 2019, and the policy was taken out in November 2021  so these were over two years 
prior to policy inception.
It wasnt until Mrs F brought the complaint to our service that IPA has given its final position 
on the claim. And thats what Ive focused on in my decision. But I think IPA has caused 
Mrs F unnecessary distress and inconvenience in how it handled her claim, as above. I think 
IPA should pay her £100 to compensate for this. This takes into account the fact that Mrs Fs 
husband has acted on her behalf, and I can only award compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs F, not her husband.
Ive then considered if IPAs decision to void Mrs Fs policy, refuse her claim and refund her 
premium is fair and reasonable.
IPA says Mrs F answered medical questions incorrectly when she bought the policy. So, I 
think the key considerations under this complaint are the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is designed to make 
sure that consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a policyholder makes what is 
called a qualifying misrepresentation under the act.
A misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation when 1) a consumer fails to take 
reasonable care not to misrepresent facts which the insurer has asked about, and 2) the 
insurer shows that without the misrepresentation it would not have entered into the contract 
at all or would have done so only on different terms. 
Ive first looked to see if Mrs F failed to take reasonable care. The standard of care required 
is that of a reasonable consumer. And one of the factors to be considered when deciding if a 
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the 
insurer were.
When taking out the policy through a price comparison website, Mrs F was asked the 
following:
Does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition, or is anyone on a 
waiting list for treatment or investigation?
You do not need to declare pregnancy, however if youve experienced complications 
during your pregnancy we recommend you contact your provider before purchasing 
so this can be noted.
Youll need to tell us about any medical conditions you have or have previously had. 
Your insurance wont always cost more to cover these conditions, but if you dont tell 
us about them any claim you make could be rejected.
I think this question was clear, and Mrs F needed to take reasonable care to answer this 
question accurately. So far, both parties have focused on the medical question asked at the 
next step of the process on IPAs website  which asked about medical conditions in the last 
two years. But I need to first decide if Mrs F made a qualifying misrepresentation already on 
the above first question. And the above question doesnt refer to two years  rather, it asks 
does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition and says that youll need 
to tell us about any medical conditions you have or previously had.Ive considered Mrs Fs medical records and what shes told us about her medical history, 
and if she took reasonable care when answering the above question. Mrs F had gallbladder 
surgery in 2016, and hiatus hernia diagnosed around the same time. She had also consulted 
a GP about low back pain in January 2021 which was managed with painkillers, and bilateral 
calcaneus pain in July 2021 which was also managed with painkillers and for which Mrs F 
was referred to physiotherapy. Having considered these, and the question asked, I think a 
reasonable consumer would have realised these conditions were something an insurer 
would want to know about in response to the above question. So, I think Mrs F failed to take 
reasonable care when answering the question on the price comparison website as no.
IPA says that had Mrs F answered yes, she wouldnt have been offered the option to buy 
this policy, as it wasnt suitable for someone with pre-existing medical conditions. Instead, 
she would have been shown policies from a variety of insurers that do cover pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Im satisfied that had Mrs F answered the above question yes, IPA wouldnt have sold her 
this policy. Instead, she would have been directed via the price comparison website to a list 
of insurance policies from a variety of insurers who do offer cover for pre-existing medical 
conditions. Mrs F would have been presented with a range of options from different insurers 
at difference prices and with different benefits. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say that its more likely than not that Mrs F would have 
chosen to take out a similarly branded but more expensive policy with IPA which did cover 
pre-existing medical conditions.
So, I think Mrs F made a qualifying misrepresentation that IPA has accepted was careless 
(rather than deliberate or reckless). This means the remedy available to IPA under CIDRA is 
to void the policy from inception  this means to treat it as if it never existed  and refuse all 
claims. IPA should then refund the premium Mrs F paid. This is what IPA has offered to do. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs F but I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
IPA accepted my provisional findings, and Mrs F didnt have any further comments. As both 
parties have had the opportunity to review my provisional decision, and send anything else 
they want me to consider, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any new information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, Ive reached the same decision, and for the same reasons.
Overall, I think Mrs F made a qualifying misrepresentation that IPA has accepted was 
careless. So, I think the action IPA took was fair and reasonable, and it should now refund 
the premium Mrs F paid, along with interest. IPA should also pay Mrs F £100 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience it caused in how it handled her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint in part. And I direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to do the following: refund Mrs F the premium she paid and add interest at 8% simple per annum from 
the date the policy was paid until the date settlement is paid, and
pay Mrs F £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused in how it handled the 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman