DRN-2131165
The complaint
Ms W complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) have unfairly declined her 
insurance claim for legal expenses and rent arrears.
Great Lakes use intermediaries to administer the policy and manage claims on their behalf, 
so any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Eviction costs: By the time Ms W registered her claim with Great Lakes in May 
2019, the tenants had already been evicted and legal costs incurred. The policy 
states that it will not cover professional fees incurred before the insurers written 
acceptance of the claim or their approval to incur such costs. And I consider that 
Ms Ws failure to inform the insurer before taking legal action has prejudiced their 
position, as they had no chance to have any input into how the proceedings were 
conducted or the rate at which costs have been incurred. So I do not consider it was 
unfair for Great Lakes to decline to cover Ms Ws legal costs for the eviction 
retrospectively.
Damage caused to property/stolen items: Ms W said in her claim form that the 
tenants stopped paying rent in July 2018. The policy states that it is a condition 
precedent to liability that the policyholder must tell Great Lakes in writing within 30 
days about any matter, which could result in a claim being made under this policy. 
Ms W says she informed her broker UniSure of the rent arrears in July 2018. But 
there is no evidence of this ever being reported to Great Lakes, or of any claim being 
made. 
The first point Great Lakes say they were notified of the claim was in May 2019. And 
having considered the evidence, I can see no other indication that the insurer had 
been made aware of the rent arrears (in writing) any sooner than this. Indeed  the 
claim form completed by Ms W is dated 14 May 2019  which is almost a year after 
the tenants stopped paying rent. So this condition for cover has not been met. But in 
any event, even if Ms W could show that she notified the insurer within 30 days, the 
policy requires her to show that the claim had prospects of success of at least 51% or 
above. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe Ms W has shown that the claim has such 
prospects. Firstly the tenants have been untraceable (although I note that the police 
have since located them but have taken no further action). And secondly, there is a 
very strong indication that the tenants are impecunious, as their correspondence with 
Ms W suggests they were/are in severe financial difficulty and were also seeking 
assistance from the Local Housing authority prior to vacant possession being 
obtained. Ms W has not shown that they have the funds/assets to meet any potential 
settlement or court order relating to the damage, stolen items or rent arrears, so Im 
satisfied Great Lakes have also declined this element of her claim fairly, given that 
she has not shown that the claim has reasonable prospects (or is proportionate to 
pursue) as she is required to show in order for the claim to be indemnified.
Rent arrears indemnity: In order for a rent arrears claim to be successful, it is a 
requirement of the policy that an insured event under section 4 of the policy has 
occurred and the policyholder is pursuing legal proceedings. However, there has 
been no successful claim established under section 4 of the policy for the reasons 
outlined above, and the legal action that was taken by Ms W (to evict the tenants) 
was undertaken outside the policy. So there is therefore no cover available under the 
rent arrears indemnity section of the policy, and I do not consider Great Lakes to 
have unfairly declined this element of her claim either.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms W. But unless the terms, conditions 
and requirements of the policy have been met, there is no obligation on Great Lakes to 
indemnify her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman