The complaint
Miss M is unhappy because she says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) kept 
adverse markers unjustifiably on her account which prevented her from obtaining further 
lending. 
Background
what Miss M says happened
Miss M says that NatWest failed to remove markers on her account which meant that she 
was unable to obtain credit with other credit providers. She says that NatWest ought to have 
removed these markers following a decision from this service directing it to do so  but it 
failed to do so.
Miss M says that she has suffered significant consequential loss as a result of NatWests 
error as well as suffering a decline in her mental health. She says that the adverse marker 
meant that she couldnt apply for an overdraft or other credit, resulting in financial difficulty. 
Because of this, she was forced to work longer hours and her personal circumstances made 
this challenging for her. Moreover, she says that she is in an at risk group for the 
contraction of the Corona Virus and so by having to work longer hours to generate more 
income, her risk of contraction was exacerbated and ultimately, she did fall ill with it. 
Miss M says that she was told NatWest had removed the markers in August 2019. She says 
another bank advised her that markers were still on her credit file. Shes also said that she 
discovered there was an adverse marker on her account by mere chance after shed been 
declined for credit with another provider and was advised by a credit reference agency that 
there was an entry on her credit file. Miss M says that this error meant that when she needed 
to apply for a second mortgage, she was unable to do so. 
Miss M agrees that NatWest removed external markers on her credit file in August 2019 but 
says that internal markers must have remained which meant that she couldnt obtain credit 
elsewhere. 
Miss M spoke with a representative from NatWests debt recovery team in July 2020 who 
said that there was a marker on Miss Ms records with it. Miss M says that this is conclusive 
evidence that NatWest didnt remove all adverse data from her account as it said it would in 
August 2019. 
what NatWest says happened
NatWest initially said that it removed all markers from Miss Ms account in August 2019 and 
reported this to external credit reference agencies. It couldnt see how therefore, any 
adverse data could be reported from it on Miss Ms credit file. NatWest further confirmed that 
any externally reported data would show on Miss Ms credit file but in the event that there 
DRN-2712818were any markers held internally on its systems, this would not show or flag to other credit 
providers if Miss M were to apply for credit with them.
However, upon further review in July 2020, NatWest found that it had inadvertently kept an 
internal recoveries marker on Miss Ms account and said that this may have prevented her 
from applying for further credit. It offered Miss M £150 as compensation for providing 
conflicting information. Miss M was unhappy with the offer made and said it wasnt reflective 
of the distress and inconvenience she suffered  and so she brought her complaint here.
When the case came to this service NatWest said that its earlier submissions to Miss M in its 
final response letter were incorrect and in fact, no internal recoveries marker had been left 
on Miss Ms account. 
An investigator here looked at the case and concluded that it wouldnt be upheld because 
they were satisfied from the evidence, that NatWest had removed all adverse data on Miss 
Ms account in August 2019 which could impact an application for credit. Miss M disagreed 
and so the case has come to me to decide.
Following my review of the case, I proposed that NatWest increase its offer because of the 
inconsistency in its representations to Miss M. I explained that I felt that this would have 
eroded Miss Ms trust in it. NatWest agreed and offered to pay Miss M a further £350 as 
compensation. However, she said that this wasnt enough and has requested a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and endorsing the offer made by NatWest  
and Ill explain why I consider it to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
At the outset, Id like to acknowledge that Miss M has kindly shared details of her sensitive 
personal circumstances and the impact NatWests actions have had on her mental health. I 
wont go into detail here suffice to say that Im grateful to Miss M for sharing whats 
happened to her and I extend my sympathy to her for what shes been through personally  
it sounds like shes been through a terrible time. Id like to reassure Miss M that I have taken 
all her points and wider circumstances into account when making my final decision. Id like to 
thank Miss M for opening up to us.
Im not going to go into the details here of why NatWest was required to remove all adverse 
markers from Miss Ms account as this has been dealt with in another decision. Instead, Im 
focusing on whether NatWest removed the data when it said it would and the impact of this 
on Miss M. 
Its not in dispute that NatWest has been inconsistent in its position as to whether markers 
remained on Miss Ms account. To summarise:
Following a decision issued by this service, NatWest said that all adverse data which 
could impact Miss Ms credit file was removed in August 2019
In July 2020, Miss M had a conversation with a representative from NatWest who 
said that there were markers remaining on her account
In July 2020, NatWest issued a final response letter stating that internal recoveries markers hadnt been removed from its systems which may have prevented Miss M 
from applying for further credit. It awarded Miss M £150 for the error
In September 2020, NatWest provided us with its file and submissions stating that its 
investigation and outcome - at the time the FRL was issued - was flawed. It said that 
Miss Ms complaint shouldnt have been upheld by it previously as no error had been 
made. It provided evidence demonstrating that all adverse data had been removed in 
August 2019
In March 2021, NatWest confirmed to this service that adverse data reported 
externally to the credit reference agencies was removed in August 2019 however, the 
internal recoveries marker wasnt removed until August 2020. 
NatWest has evidenced that it removed the relevant externally reported markers in August 
2019. It has further confirmed that even though the internal recoveries marker wasnt 
removed until a year later, this marker wouldnt be reported outside of its banking group. As 
such, it wouldnt affect any credit applications Miss M made with a bank or credit provider 
outside of the NatWest Group. 
Ive listened to the call Miss M had with the representative from NatWest in July 2020 where 
she was told that markers were left on her account  and I can appreciate the shock she 
would have felt hearing this. Moreover, the representative said that she couldnt elaborate on 
what the marker was or why it was applied as that information wasnt available to her which 
would have been frustrating for Miss M to hear. Understandably, this caused some confusion 
for Miss M because shed been assured that all markers had been removed in August 2019. 
Miss M said that a third party bank told her there were markers placed by NatWest on her 
credit file. We approached the third party bank to ascertain what information it had. It said it 
searched its records and could find no adverse data corroborating what Miss M had said. 
Miss M said that the third party bank didnt search far back enough. The bank confirmed that 
it looked as far back as November 2018 and so Im persuaded that it did undertake adequate 
searches covering the relevant period. 
Having reviewed all the evidence, I can see why Miss M distrusts NatWests position in this 
case as it has been inconsistent in its submissions to her and to us. Notwithstanding this, Im 
persuaded that the internal marker which remained on NatWests records until August 2020 
wouldnt have been seen by any other banks or credit providers outside of the NatWest 
Group and so, it wouldnt have affected any credit applications Miss M made with them.
Putting things right 
Following our intervention, NatWest acknowledged its error and offered to pay Miss M a 
further £350 as compensation  and, for the reasons stated above, I consider this to be 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. I acknowledge that the internal recovery 
marker remained on Miss Ms account longer than it should have but I cannot say from the 
evidence that Ive seen, that this is the reason why shes been unable to obtain credit 
elsewhere. 
I have read all of Miss Ms submissions about the impact NatWests actions has had on her 
 but it would be unfair of me to hold NatWest responsible for all of the consequential impact 
Miss M says that she has experienced because Im not persuaded it all is all attributable to it. 
Im sorry if this disappoints Miss M as I know she was seeking more compensation than this 
but I hope Ive explained why I consider this amount to be reasonable and I hope Miss M is 
reassured that someone independent has reviewed her complaint and reached this conclusion having regard to all of the available evidence. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about National Westminster Bank Plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Miss M £350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has
suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
Reena Anand
Ombudsman