DRN-4019504
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt take her auto renew 
premium as they should have, despite assurances that they would, and caused her distress 
and inconvenience.
 
What happened
Mrs N had a car insurance policy with Admiral. 
When she contacted them about a renewal price on 8 January 2022 she was told that they 
no longer had her payment card on file, but that it wouldnt be an issue and payment would 
still be taken as it is the same account the card was linked to. 
Mrs N then received an email stating that the payment hadn't been taken so she updated all 
her payment details on the secure line. However, payment still wasnt taken and on 12 
January she called back again. Admiral told her that the payment hadnt been taken and so 
the agent took it over the phone.  
Mrs N raised a complaint. Admiral responded saying they couldnt listen to the calls due to 
an IT error but awarded her £40 as a gesture of goodwill for the failure of the agent to take 
payment on the first call.  
Mrs N was unhappy with this amount of compensation and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ns complaint and thought that the level of 
compensation was fair.
Mrs N disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding Mrs Ns complaint and I will explain why. 
Admiral have confirmed here that an error was made by a staff member as they should have 
taken Mrs Ns payment when she called on 8 January. They have also advised that they are 
unable to listen to the calls, but they dont need to as they are satisfied that the error was 
made. 
So, Ive thought about whether their offer of compensation is fair. 
The e mail sent to Mrs N on the 8 January confirmed that the payment couldnt be taken but 
it said: 
For your convenience we will apply for this overdue payment within 10 days from the date of 
this letter. This may take up to 10 days to appear on your account so please make sure 
money is available until we collect this outstanding premium. If your payment is not 
successful, your policy may be cancelled
So, when Mrs N called Admiral on 12 January, the 10 days hadnt lapsed, and the agent 
resolved the issue by taking the payment. 
 
I think the e mail made it clear to Mrs N that she still had cover even though payment hadnt 
been taken, and that payment would be attempted again. Whilst I can understand Mrs Ns 
frustration, Im satisfied that there was no detriment to her at the time. 
I appreciate that she had to make a second call to sort it out, but £40 payment is broadly in 
line with the recommendation I would make in these circumstances, and so I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint about Admiral insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman