DRN-4282637
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain about the price charged by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) over 
several years to renew their buildings insurance policy. 
Mr E has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr E or  
Mrs E as Mr E throughout the decision. 
What happened
Mr E says he made a subsidence claim on his policy in 2018  and he has since noticed his 
premium increasing each year. He says, when he received his 2023 renewal, he noticed a 
significant increase  with a price quoted at £1,740.72. Mr E says his broker managed to 
agree a reduction down to £1,195.04, but he feels the price was still too high, so he 
complained. 
AXA responded and explained theres a range of factors which affect the price of a policy. 
They explained they use index linking to keep pace with the impact of inflation on the cost of 
building materials and labour. They said, following the notification of the claim for subsidence 
in 2018, the 2019 premium increased. They said, in 2020, due to index linking, rate 
increases and a change in the amount of commission the broker receives, this resulted in an 
increase of the premium. They said, in 2022, the policy renewed, but later that year they 
communicated to the broker that theyre no longer able to accept blocks of flats through their 
online Landlords product. So they offered an alternative quote through their Property 
Protection Plan which is a different contract which isnt available online and offers a different 
level of cover to the previous product taken out by Mr E. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr E and Mrs E. He thought AXA hadnt acted unfairly 
in relation to the pricing. Mr E and Mrs E disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr E and Mrs E will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think it will help if I firstly set out the premiums Mr E has paid from 2018. 
Year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Premium £342.54 £583.36 £785.67 £716.65 £823.19 £1,195.04
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I do understand why Mr E became concerned when receiving a quote for his 2023 renewal. 
Initially, the price was more than double what hed paid the previous year  and it remained 
higher even after the price was reduced by AXA. And its significantly higher than what Mr E 
paid in 2018  which was the year he made a claim for subsidence. AXA have provided me 
with confidential business sensitive information to explain how Mr Es premiums were 
calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive 
checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premiums he has been quoted have been 
calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other AXA customers in Mr Es 
position will have been charged a lower premium. 
AXA have provided a breakdown of all premiums charged from 2018. Ive carefully reviewed 
all breakdowns which includes details of the factors which have caused the price increases. 
As mentioned above, I cant share this with Mr E as its business sensitive information. But, I 
can see in the policy years following 2018, the price was affected by a range of factors. This 
includes, but is not limited to, the subsidence claim, general rate increases, claims inflation  
which is affected by rising costs of building materials and labour, and also commission rates 
charged by the broker. So, I cant say AXA have made a mistake when calculating a price, or 
that they treated Mr E unfairly. 
I can see, following the complaint response, Mr E replied to question how AXA can justify 
such a significant price increase. He feels the numbers dont add up even when taking into 
account the rates of inflation. I think its important to mention here, its for a business to 
decide what risks theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - 
different insurers will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher 
premium has made an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but 
rather, it reflects the different approach theyve decided to take to risk. 
I can see it was the 2023 renewal price which prompted Mr E to complain. AXA say, after  
Mr Es 2022 renewal, they decided to stop underwriting this policy as an online product so 
renewal terms couldnt be offered for this same product in 2023. AXA say, recognising the 
subsidence claim might lead to Mr E experiencing difficulty in finding cover with another 
insurer, they offered terms on an alternative product. They say this product offers wider 
cover and is subject to a different rating structure than Mr Es previous policy. AXA, like all 
insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result in changes 
to the premium. They have explained this was a change across all their policies as they 
changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the same with the 
change and Mr E hasnt been treated differently or unfairly when they chose to change their 
approach.  
Given the price increases to Mr Es policy over the last few years, I do acknowledge why he 
has complained. But Ive carefully checked the information provided by AXA, and I cant say 
theyve made a mistake in calculating Mr Es premiums or otherwise treated Mr E unfairly. 
I wish to reassure Mr E Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman