DRN-1967667
 
The complaint
Mr H says Gracombex Ltd, trading as The Money Platform (The Money Platform), 
irresponsibly lent to him. Mr H says he had other lending and the borrowing resulted in him 
having to enter a payment plan.                           
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans The Money Platform provided to Mr H between 
February 2018 and April 2019. Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 02/02/2018 20/04/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
2 26/04/2018 13/07/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
3 30/07/2018 06/10/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33
4 15/10/2018 13/12/2018 3 £500.00 £278.67
5 07/01/2019 27/02/2019 3 £500.00 £278.67
6 18/04/2019 Outstanding* 3 £500.00 £278.67
 
*When the complaint was brought to this service, I understand loan six was still outstanding 
and The Money Platform had set up a payment plan for Mr H. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given as proportionate checks would have shown Mr H had at 
least three other short-term loans outstanding and that for loan five it looked like Mr H had 
become persistently reliant on this type of credit. 
The Money Platform disagreed with the adjudicator. It said it did perform escalating credit 
checks and wouldnt lend to someone in financial difficulty. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that The Money Platform should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that The Money Platform was required to 
establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr H didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr H had with The Money Platform. So, it is something I will take into account 
when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. Like the adjudicator, I think when Mr H applied for loan four The Money Platform should 
have been looking to build a better picture of his financial circumstances. I say this because 
for loan four the amount requested had doubled and he had now been borrowing from The 
Money Platform for eight months, albeit with short breaks  of usually less than a week 
between the lending.
I think if The Money Platform had carried out checks which were proportionate to the number 
of loans Mr H had taken, the length of time he had been borrowing and the fact that the 
amount borrowed had significantly increased, I think The Money Platform would have found 
that Mr H had several loans outstanding with other short-term credit providers at the same 
time he was borrowing from it. And I think this would have made clear to The Money 
Platform that Mr H was having problems managing his money and would suggest Mr H was 
juggling his finances in order to make ends meet. So, I dont think loan four should have 
been given. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of The Money Platforms lending history with Mr H, with 
a view to seeing if there was a point at which The Money Platform should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so The Money 
Platform should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
five. I say this because:
At this point The Money Platform ought to have realised Mr H was not managing to 
repay his loans sustainably. Mr H had taken out five loans within 11 months. So, The 
Money Platform ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr H was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
For all the lending Mr H was provided with a new loan within days or weeks of 
settling a previous one. 
 
Mr H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed The Money Platform. 
Loan six was taken out 14 months after Mr Hs first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to The Money 
Platform over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr H lost out because The Money Platform continued to provide borrowing from 
loan five onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the number of loans which Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four to six and The Money Platform should 
put things right.putting things right  what The Money Platform needs to do 
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Hs loan has been transferred to a third party The 
Money Platform should buy the loan back if it can. If The Money Platform cant buy the loan 
back, then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then The Money Platform should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
The Money Platform should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to 
step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then The Money Platform should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to loan four. 
The number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans five and six should be removed from Mr Hs 
credit file. The Money Platform does not have to remove loan six from Mr Hs credit file until 
this has been repaid, but any adverse information recorded about this loan should still be 
removed.                                                                                                                                
* HM Revenue & Customs requires The Money Platform to take off tax from this interest. 
The Money Platform must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr H still has an outstanding balance due, then The Money Platform 
should try and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr H in 
order to repay what is owed. But Id remind The Money Platform of its obligation to make 
sure it treats Mr H fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. Gracombex Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman