DRN-3687550
The complaint
Mrs I complains that IG Markets Limited unfairly cancelled profits shed made trading 
Contracts for Differences (CFDs). Shed like her profits returned to her. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mrs I opened a number of positions on IGs FTSE 100 market. She made 
substantial profits, but when she tried to withdraw her cash she was unable to. IG then 
voided the trades and cancelled her profits. Mrs I complained. 
IG looked into Mrs Is complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained in its 
final response letter that it had noticed a number of spikes in the price of the FTSE100 on 4 
July. It said these spikes were caused by greater than normal volume of trades being placed 
in the underlying market, and this caused IGs FTSE100 price to move because it derived 
this price from futures contracts. It said that it had assessed the timing of the trades placed 
on Mrs Is account relative to when the orders were placed in the underlying market, and it 
believed that Mrs I had advanced knowledge of those orders and how theyd affect IGs 
price. It said that it therefore believed it was likely that Mrs I was looking to take advantage of 
the way IG constructed its price for this market. It said this contravened the terms of her 
account. 
Mrs I didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. In short, she said that she had 
executed some trades in July 2017 and two months later received an email saying those 
trades had been voided. She said she asked what that meant but wasnt given an 
explanation, and the decision was upheld in October 2017. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Is complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
noted that during the period in question, Mrs I had made over £29,800 and made losses of 
around £7,200, thereby her overall profits were just under £22,600. He also noted there was 
no other trading activity on the account, until the reversal and withdrawal was processed and 
the account was closed. He said that he was satisfied IG acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account when it voided the trades, and therefore didnt think it needed to do 
anything further put things right. 
Mrs I didnt agree. She said that it wasnt reasonable to arbitrarily void profit on an account 
after months without any justification other than a unsubstantiated allegation. She said that 
IG had alleged she had some sort of foreknowledge of market movements ahead of her 
trades, and she took advantage. However, she said that this wasnt possible unless she was 
psychic, and she said that the fact that she had some losing trades showed that she didnt 
have any foreknowledge. 
She said that IG hadnt provided any evidence to substantiate its allegations. She said that 
this meant its allegation was speculative and shouldnt be accepted. She claimed that IG 
was acting in its own interests because any trade they voided increase its own profits. She 
reiterated that IG provided no evidence for its allegations, and therefore her profits should be 
returned to her. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mrs Is comments very carefully. I should make it clear that my role is not to 
determine whether Mrs I actually breached the terms of her agreement with IG, and Im not 
upholding the rule of law as she says in her submissions. My role is to look at what IG has 
said, and the evidence it had before it, and decide whether what it did was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In doing so, I do have to take into account any relevant 
law, the terms of the account and the testimony from Mrs I and IG. 
The terms of Mrs Is account allowed IG to take certain actions. 
S.19(1) said:
You represent and warrant to us, and agree that each such representation and warranty is 
deemed repeated each time you open or close a Transaction by reference to the 
circumstances prevailing at such time, that:
(j) you will use the services offered by us pursuant to this Agreement in good faith and, to 
this end, you will not use any electronic device, software, algorithm or any dealing strategy 
(Device) that aims to manipulate or take unfair advantage of the way in which we construct, 
provide or convey our bid or offer prices. 
In the event that any terms in the Agreement were breached, the Agreement said:
Any breach by you of a warranty given under this Agreement, including but not limited to the 
warranties given in Terms 19(1), 20 and 8(1) renders any Transaction voidable from the 
outset. 
IG concluded that Mrs Is trades were not placed in good faith. In particular, it concluded that 
the evidence it had showed that it was more likely than not that Mrs I was placing trades with 
IG with knowledge of other transactions in the underlying market and how they would affect 
IGs price. IG therefore concluded that this meant she was in breach of the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
I acknowledge Mrs Is profound disagreement with IGs position, and the unfairness she 
feels she has experienced via the voiding of her trades. However, I should make clear that 
the mere presence of some losing trades on Mrs Is account during the relevant period is 
not, in and of itself, conclusive evidence that she was not gaining an unfair advantage. The 
presence of losing trades in order to mask unfair trading is a common strategy and Ive 
therefore taken this into account when looking at the fairness and reasonableness of what IG 
did at the time.  
Taking the above into account, IGs testimony and the evidence it has provided, Im satisfied 
that it was fair and reasonable for it to have concluded, as it did, that Mrs Is trading 
breached s.19 of the terms and that she had gained an unfair advantage when trading on 
the price that IG was offering on the FTSE 100 market. 
The evidence Ive seen also persuades me that IG was entitled to take into account other breaches of the agreement, connected to the above, which corroborated what IG had 
concluded Mrs I was doing. For all these reasons, both individual and cumulatively, Im 
satisfied that the action it decided to take in voiding Mrs Is trades was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman