DRN-3524035
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the actions of UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill 
Insurance (UKI) in relation to their insurance claim for legal expenses. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
Although it is a joint policy, for ease of reading and as hes sent all the correspondence to 
date, Ill mostly only refer to Mr W.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr W had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by UKI. He 
made a claim to pursue a third party in relation to work hed had done on his roof. The claim 
was accepted and a non-panel solicitor P was instructed to act for Mr W.
The claim progressed and P drew up a settlement agreement between Mr W and the third 
party. The evidence from Ps file indicated that Mr W was prepared to accept the settlement 
and that Ps advice was that he should do so. 
Its evident that P attempted to speak to UKI to get their consent to accept the offer (in line 
with the terms of appointment). But ultimately, they followed Mr Ws instructions and 
accepted the settlement before theyd spoken to UKI. 
Once the settlement had been reached UKI initially said that there wasnt further cover 
available as the matter was concluded. Around this time Mr W concluded that the settlement 
agreement wasnt adequate. He says amongst the problems is that it made no provision for 
internal damage and only covered the roof itself. 
UKI then asked P to remain involved to tie up the loose ends with the other side who Mr W 
alleges kept moving the goalposts in relation to the settlement agreement. But P would no 
longer act for Mr W following a complaint hed made to them. 
UKI acted promptly and attempted to instruct one of their panel solicitors L to assist Mr W. 
Around this time UKI also responded to Mr Ws complaint. In summary they didnt think they 
were responsible for the situation he was in regarding the settlement agreement. They 
pointed out that P had accepted this without consulting them and that they werent legally 
trained in any case. UKI accepted that there had been some poor service with regard to a 
lack of communication and they offered £200 compensation for the impact of this. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. She also considered the compensation already offered to 
be fair. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, so Ill explain why. 
I think it would be useful to first set out that we are an informal dispute resolution service and 
an alternative to the courts. Mr W has made detailed submissions and Ive considered 
everything hes sent in. Ive also listened carefully to a call he had with one of my 
Ombudsman colleagues where he verbally set out his position. But Ill be keeping my 
findings to the crux of Mr Ws complaint. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece of 
evidence it isnt because I havent seen it and thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. 
Ultimately, Mr W holds UKI responsible for the settlement agreement which he says is 
inadequate and has left him in a vulnerable position with the possibility of incurring 
significant additional costs. 
UKIs role here as the insurer is to fund the legal action provided under the policy in line with 
its terms and conditions. UKI arent responsible for the day to day running of the underlying 
legal claim. That is the responsibility of the legal professionals involved, which in this case 
was P. 
The evidence supports that P agreed to the settlement without authority to do so from UKI. I 
understand the terms of appointment between P and UKI required that they obtained such 
authority. Irrespective of the communication between UKI and P, UKI arent responsible for 
the content of the settlement agreement. This is particularly the case where they werent 
made aware of it prior to it being agreed. And I dont believe UKI acted unreasonably in their 
handling of the communication from P at the relevant time (March 2021). 
The evidence from P is clear that they believed Mr W ought to accept the offer. And there 
are emails from March 2021 from Mr W to P indicating that he was willing to accept the 
agreement. I appreciate Mr W says he was pressured into doing so by P, and even if that 
were the case (for clarity that is something I make no finding on), UKI still wouldnt be 
responsible for that.
Mr W believes that UKI failed to adequately support him through the process of his claim. I 
wouldnt have expected UKI (who arent legally trained themselves) to have challenged Ps 
advice about whether the settlement ought to be accepted. I also wouldnt expect them to 
assess the settlement agreement. Its reasonable for them to rely on Ps (as the legal 
professionals) opinion on that matter. So even if UKI had discussed the settlement with P 
(prior to its acceptance), I think its most likely it would have gone ahead in any case. So, I 
dont agree that UKI are responsible for the agreement being entered into or any of the 
consequences of that decision. I also dont agree with Mr Ws suggestion that its reasonable 
to expect UKI to take legal action against P on his behalf. 
I can also see that once Mr W made UKI aware of the issue with the agreement, they acted 
promptly to instruct other solicitors for him to help him protect his position. This included 
settling costs with P outside of the terms of appointment to enable Mr Ws file to be released 
to a different solicitor. Overall, I dont think UKI have acted unfairly here, Mr Ws 
dissatisfaction seems to be predominantly with P. This isnt something I can comment on and likewise isnt something UKI are responsible for. This complaint can only consider the 
actions of UKI, not whether Mr W has been treated fairly or suffered a loss as a result of any 
of the other parties involved. 
UKI themselves acknowledged they ought to have kept Mr W better informed and that on 
occasions they failed to return his calls. I appreciate this whole episode has been very 
difficult and deeply distressing for Mr W. But any legal dispute (particularly one involving a 
home) is always likely to be a very distressing experience. And it wouldnt be fair for me to 
hold UKI responsible for all the stress Mr W has been through. I dont believe any of the poor 
service Mr W received impacted on his legal claim. And I think the £200 compensation 
offered is fair for the service failings in the context of this complaint. For clarity, Ive only 
considered the actions of UKI up until their complaint response from June 2021. If Mr W is 
unhappy about events that have happened since that date, this is something hed need to 
raise separately with UKI in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman