DRN-2657099
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA), which was a packaged account, in November 2009. Mr Cs 
representative says that Mr C was told to upgrade in order to keep his overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr C first opened a fee-free current account with Halifax in 2007, which was later upgraded 
to the fee-paying URCA in November 2009. Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and 
didnt think Halifax mis-sold the URCA. Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. Mr C is being represented by a representative.
I should add that this decision will only be looking at the sale of the URCA itself it will not be 
looking at the overdraft charges structure or the financial difficulties Mr C suffered from as 
this is being dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr C was given a fair choice in taking out this account. Mr 
C says he was told that he had to take out the account in order to keep his overdraft. I can 
see though that Mr C had held an overdraft on a fee free account for a number of years prior 
to the upgrade so I think that he wouldve been aware that overdrafts were available to him 
on fee free accounts. Hes not told me anything about why he would have believed that was 
no longer the case by 2009.
I think that it is more likely that Mr C upgraded due to a change in the way that Halifax were 
intending to charge overdraft users. To explain, in December 2009, just after the upgrade, 
Halifax changed the charging structure of overdrafts on its fee-free accounts, meaning that 
customers with fee free accounts would incur a daily £1 planned overdraft usage fee. One of 
the benefits of the URCA was an interest and fee-free planned overdraft of up to £300. This 
means that if a consumer stayed within their overdraft limit and stayed below £300 
overdrawn, they wouldnt have to pay the daily £1 overdraft usage fee. The monthly fee for 
the URCA was £12.50, so as long as they used their overdraft within the £300 fee-free 
portion for 13 days or more each month, they were financially better off by having the URCA.
As I mentioned above, Mr C had a planned overdraft limit of £250 at the time of the sale, 
which was within the interest and fee-free portion that the URCA offered. So, I think its likely 
this would have been a factor in Mr C agreeing to take out the URCA. I can also see that Mr 
C extensively used his overdraft at this time and after the upgrade. Indeed, from the 
information I have been provided it seems likely that Mr C saved a considerable sum from 
having this account at least for the first few years of having the account.
Overall, while I do appreciate what Mr C has said about the sale itself, on balance I think its 
more likely he agreed to upgrade the account because he wanted to avoid the overdraft 
charges that he wouldve incurred had he not upgraded. 
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Mr C. It did though have to give Mr C enough information to 
decide this for himself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Mr C to make 
the account seem attractive and I accept though that the majority of these benefits may have 
not been of use to him, save for the overdraft benefit. 
During the sale Mr C may not have been given all the information about all of the benefits of 
the account but I cant see anything specific that Mr C was not told that I think wouldve 
changed his decision to take out the account. After all the only benefit that I can see that Mr 
C wouldve needed was the overdraft benefit.
On balance, I think Mr C agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that he didnt have to. And 
I think its more likely he did so because he was interested in the overdraft benefits on the 
account.
I note Mr Cs representatives comments that it is unfair that Mr C was sold an account with 
insurances when the only benefit that he could really use was the overdraft benefit. But this 
account was sold with a package of benefits and I think the above benefit was enough to 
make Mr C agree to the account as it would potentially save him money at the time the 
account was taken out.
I understand that prior to Halifax changing its overdraft structure the account would not have 
saved Mr C any money but as we have explained this will be looked at as a separate issue 
and all I am looking at is whether the URCA itself was mis-sold.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr C and his representative: its clear how 
strongly they believe that the account was mis-sold and I can see that with hindsight the 
account may not have provided value for money. But I am only considering the sale itself 
and, at the time the account was sold to Mr C, it was likely that the account would save him 
money versus having a fee free account based on his circumstances at the time
So I am unable to conclude that the URCA was sold incorrectly.
My final decision
I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman