DRN-2324176
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that AXA Insurance UK plc has unfairly declined her claim for a broken 
window following a burglary at her property under her home insurance policy.
 What happened
Mrs Y took out a policy with AXA and in December 2018 there was an attempted burglary at 
her home and a window was damaged. Mrs Y reported this to the police and her broker who 
notified AXA in June 2019. The management company for Mrs Ys property obtained three 
quotes for the window, which all advised that the window needed to be replaced.
AXAs agents visited Mrs Ys property to inspect the window in September 2019. Following 
this AXAs records show that payment for the work was authorised and notified to Mrs Ys 
broker. Later on, AXA said that the payment had been issued in error to its agents but the 
work was never authorised or instructed.
Mrs Y said that AXA agreed to replace the window and confirmed that funds had been 
transferred to its contractor for the work to be carried out. She said that three weeks later, 
after being chased for a repair date, AXA told her that the cause of the damage wasnt the 
burglary, but wear and tear, and the claim would be repudiated. Mrs Y said AXA couldnt 
provide a satisfactory explanation for its actions. 
Mrs Y complained to AXA about its decision on her claim via her broker in November 2019. 
She requested her claim be accepted and compensation be paid for her time and stress in 
its handling of her claim.
AXA said its agents reported on Mrs Ys window the damage is due to wear and tear and 
rectification would require replacement. AXA said a quote for the work included vents to 
help prevent damp which suggested betterment would be involved. AXA said Mrs Ys claim 
was repudiated under the exclusion for claims for wear and tear in her policy.
Our investigator initially recommended the complaint be not upheld as Mrs Ys policy 
excludes damage for wear and tear. Mrs Y sent in further information and photos and the 
investigator decided the complaint should be upheld and her claim paid. He said the photos 
showed one-off damage consistent with an attempted break in. And he said that AXAs 
report lacked detail and photos. The investigator said AXA had caused some confusion 
about the work, but this was human error, which was corrected three weeks later. He said 
this should have been sooner but didnt think AXA was responsible for any significant delays. 
AXA disagreed with the investigator about the claim saying the photos were taken from the 
inside and theres no visible damage to the outside to suggest that someone has tried to 
break in. AXA maintained that the damage was due to wear and tear and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at AXAs decisions and handling of Mrs Ys claim to see if it has acted in 
accordance with her policy and treated her fairly. 
Its a policyholders responsibility to demonstrate they have a valid claim and for any claim to 
be successful, its necessary to prove that an insured event has occurred and that its 
caused damage to the property. Mrs Y reported an attempted break in to her property to the 
police and has claimed for the damage to her window.
Damage from an attempted break in is covered under Mrs Ys policy and there wouldnt 
normally be an issue with such a claim being paid by an insurer. In this instance AXA thinks 
the damage isnt consistent with a break in and is to do with wear and tear which is excluded 
by the policy. 
Where the parties disagree about the cause of damage we have to rely on the evidence 
available, which in this case is the photos and descriptions by the parties. AXAs agents 
reported that the damage is due to wear and tear There are no handles or locks on the 
sashes.... there is no other damage to this window.
Mrs Y said AXAs agents report was wrong about the lack of handles or locks and she said 
there was other damage. She said the window doesnt have a vent and this isnt an issue. 
From the photos Ive seen from inside and outside there are handles and locks on the 
damaged window. Furthermore, the window has clearly been gouged in several places 
around the frame. I think this damage is consistent with an attempted force entry from 
outside, but in any event is not wear and tear. The photos of the outside provided by Mrs Y 
do show some damage and I dont support AXAs view that the main cause of damage is 
wear and tear. 
Mrs Y thinks that AXAs agents were reporting on damage to the wrong window. Theres no 
description in the report AXA provided of the room in which the agents were situated so its 
not possible for me to say, but it is a possibility.
From the evidence Ive seen, I think Mrs Y is correct to say that the photos, quotes and 
police report challenge the accuracy and fairness of AXAs decision to decline her claim. The 
agents reported that the damage would require the window to be replaced and I think AXA 
should now do this.
Concerning delays, I can see it was six months before the claim was notified to AXA as the 
claim was mistakenly notified to Mrs Ys subsequent insurer. That wasnt AXAs fault and I 
dont think that has prejudiced AXAs assessment of the claim. And neither do I think that 
AXAs short delay in telling Mrs Y the claim was declined after indicating that it would be 
paid, has prejudiced her position and so I dont award any compensation for this. AXA was 
entitled to reach the decision to decline Mrs Ys claim, even though I have disagreed with it.
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require AXA Insurance UK plc to carry out a replacement for Mrs Ys damaged window or 
pay her the cost of replacement according to an agreed estimate for this, less any excess 
payable under her policy.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman