DRN-3470953
The complaint
Miss W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) offered her an unfair 
settlement for her stolen watch under her home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W had contents insurance with RSA. This included cover for her watch. The watch was 
listed as a specified item on the policy with a value of £4,440. 
In February 2021 Miss W was burgled and a number of items were stolen. She reported the 
burglary to RSA the following day. 
RSA asked Miss W to provide a list of the stolen items and any photos and receipts that she 
had for them. They said they also needed online links for replacing the items. And that if the 
item was no longer available they asked Miss W to send a link for an item that was similar in 
quality and function. Miss W provided the loss list requested.
Miss W said that her stolen watch couldnt be exactly replaced as that model was no longer 
produced. 
RSA accepted the claim. They replaced a number of the stolen items. They offered a 
replacement watch which was a similar model to the stolen one, but not exactly the same.  
Miss W declined this offer. So RSA offered a cash settlement to Miss W for her watch. They 
said that the retail value of the watch was £3,550, but offered a cash settlement value of 
£2,414 as this was what the watch wouldve cost them to replace. They said they were 
satisfied that their suppliers could offer a suitable replacement.
Miss W didnt think she could purchase a suitable replacement from the suppliers offered. 
She wanted to get the replacement watch from the original shop, or direct from the 
manufacturer. So she wanted a cash settlement of £3,550, or a voucher to that value that 
she could use in the original shop.
Miss W complained to RSA. She felt it was unfair for RSA to offer a cash settlement which 
was lower than the retail value of the watch. 
RSA issued their final response to the complaint on 21 August 2021. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said their suppliers had confirmed they were able to replace watches of the 
brand Miss W had had stolen. They said that having reviewed all the information, the 
settlement offer theyd made was correct, and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Miss W was unhappy with this response, so asked this service to consider her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that RSA had made the 
correct offer. And that theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So he 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Miss W didnt agree with our investigator. She said she believed her complaint should be 
upheld. She said she felt that the purpose of the insurance was to put her back into the 
position she was in before the burglary happened. But that as the watch model was no 
longer available new, she would like the market value of the watch to be paid. She also said 
that the other items on her claim had been priced at market value, not RSAs suppliers 
estimate.
So her complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Before I start, Id like to say how sorry I am for what Miss W has been through with the 
burglary. 
Miss Ws stolen watch model was no longer available new. So finding a suitable replacement 
for it was going to be difficult. As our investigator noted, in cases like this, we might ask the 
insurer to consider finding a second-hand replacement of the exact model. But I understand 
that Miss W didnt agree that this was a suitable way of settling her complaint. She said that 
her watch had been new when she got it, so she wanted the replacement to be new too. I 
agree that this is a reasonable position. So I wont be asking RSA to consider a second-hand 
watch.
The policy booklet states how claims will be settled. It says:
Settling Contents claims: Basis of Claims Settlement
1. a. Where the damage can be economically repaired we will pay the cost of repair.
b. Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or lost item can be 
replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available we will replace it with an item of 
similar quality.
c. Where we are unable economically to repair or to replace an item with an item of similar 
quality, we will agree a cash payment with you based on the replacement value.
d. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but instead you 
request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not normally exceed 
what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
This is a standard in insurance policies. This is because insurers usually have established 
relationships with suppliers who therefore offer them considerable discounts. This means the 
insurer can purchase replacement items at a lower cost than would be available to a 
consumer. 
So, under the terms of the policy, RSA are entitled to replace, repair or to pay a cash 
settlement at the amount it would cost them to replace an item. 
RSA offered Miss W a replacement, using their preferred suppliers. Miss W rejected this 
offer as she wanted to replace the watch from the original shop it was purchased at, or direct 
from the manufacturer. I understand why Miss W wanted to do this. But I cant fairly say 
RSAs offer was unfair or unreasonable. I say this because they had confirmed that their suppliers were able to offer a suitable replacement of the watch.
RSA then offered a cash settlement of £2,414, as this was the was the cost to them of 
buying the replacement watch. Miss W felt the cash settlement was her only option as the 
available replacement watch wasnt the same model as the stolen one. But RSAs original 
offer was to supply a replacement which was the closest available match, which Im satisfied 
is fair. The policy terms  as shown above  state that RSA wont provide a cash settlement 
which is more than they would pay to replace the watch via their preferred supplier. 
Therefore I consider that this offer was fair under the circumstances, and in line with RSAs 
terms and conditions. 
I acknowledge that Miss W has said shed rather wait for the manufacturer of her watch to 
bring out a replacement that was of similar style, and buy that with the settlement from the 
claim  even if that means waiting for a few years. She said she feels shes being forced to 
have a replacement watch which she doesn't want. Miss W doesnt consider this is fair, as 
other items on her claim which arent available any more have been cash settled at full 
value. Therefore she cant see why RSA can't do that for her watch. 
Ive carefully considered these points. And reviewed the validation report dated 24 June 
2021 which values various stolen jewellery items. Four of these items were valued at their 
full replacement cost. Two items  including the watch  had their amount validated but a 
discounted amount for their replacement was offered.
The terms and conditions of the policy allow RSA to settle a claim how they see fit. And how 
they settle one item shouldnt influence how they settle another item. RSA are entitled, under 
the terms of the policy, to pay cash settlement amounts at the cost they wouldve paid to 
their preferred supplier. Theyve offered to do this for the stolen watch. They had also offered 
to replace the watch with the closest available match. While I understand Miss Ws position, I 
havent found that RSA have done anything wrong. 
I also note that Miss W said she felt that the purpose of the insurance was to put her back 
into the position she was in before the burglary happened. From what Ive seen, RSAs 
offers have tried to do that. 
Having carefully considered all of the evidence, and Miss Ws additional points, I cant 
uphold this complaint. Ive found no evidence that RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably. And 
theyve also acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman