DRN-3234014
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct failed to 
provide sufficient information when he updated his car insurance policy online.
What happened
Mr C insured his car with Hastings on a third-party basis. The annual premium was £189.64. 
He changed his car in March 2021 and so he went online to amend the policy via his 
Hastings online account. This resulted in the annual premium increasing from £189.29 to 
£218.26. He was also charged a £20 admin fee, meaning the total cost was £48.62.
When he received the new policy documents, he realised he hadnt changed the level of 
cover, so he contacted Hastings to ask it to increase the level of cover from third party to 
fully comprehensive. At that point, the premium increased by a further £45.93 and he was 
charged another £20 admin fee.
Mr C complained to Hastings because he felt he had bought a policy that cost more than he 
needed to pay because of an error in its online system whereby he wasnt asked which level 
of cover he needed. This resulted in him paying a higher premium and being charged an 
additional admin fee.
Hastings initially said it wouldnt uphold the complaint because the second admin fee was 
fair. It explained that when Mr C made the initial change to the policy, he was charged the 
pro-rata cost for the change and a £20 admin fee. He was then charged again when he 
contacted it by telephone to change the level of cover. It explained that in allowing Mr C to 
change the level of cover, it had made an exception to its usual rule that a policyholder cant 
change the level of cover without a change of vehicle. It eventually refunded the second £20 
admin fee as a gesture of goodwill, but it maintained it was reasonable that Mr H had to 
contact it by phone to change the level of cover, even though he wasnt prompted to do so 
by the website. And it didnt accept hed lost out as a result.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said that whenever he has 
applied for car insurance, there has been a mandatory step to choose between different 
levels of cover and that, because he wasnt prompted by the system, hed been left with the 
wrong level of cover for his new car. This meant there were two separate increases to his 
premium, resulting in him agreeing to pay more than hed intended. Significantly, if hed been 
prompted to change the level of cover, hed have seen the price and sought insurance 
elsewhere. 
He now wants Hastings to refund the difference between the first and second premium 
increase, to pay him £125 compensation for the inconvenience and to change its online 
form. He said that when he contacted Hastings, it accepted there was an error on the 
website.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained this Service is not 
the Regulator and we are unable to tell and insurer to alter its processes. He said Hastings 
hadnt admitted there was an error, he didnt accept the fact Mr C wasnt prompted to 
change the level of cover was unfair and he thought it was reasonable for Hastings to have 
expected Mr C to contact it to change the level of cover.
Our investigator noted Hastings had allowed Mr C to change the level of cover in 
circumstances where it could have fairly refused and that its decision to refund the second 
admin fee was fair. Regarding the cost of the policy, he accepted Mr C could have bought a 
similar policy for £214, but he didnt think Hastings needed to refund the difference. This is 
because he didnt think Mr C had lost out as he could have chosen to cancel the policy once 
he knew about the second premium increase, he had only paid one administration fee and 
could still cancel the policy at any time. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with the outcome of his complaint and has asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. He has reiterated that when he first amended the policy, the 
details werent visible and there was no way he could have known the eventual cost of what 
he was committing to. He believes the online process prevented him from buying the right 
level of cover for a new car in circumstances where it was reasonable to want an increased 
level of cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C bought a new car, he wanted to add it to his car insurance policy and increase 
the level of cover because it was a more expensive car. He believes there was an error in 
Hastings online system and this meant he thought the new cover would only cost an 
additional £45.93. He said if hed known the total cost at the outset, he wouldnt have 
committed to the policy because there were cheaper policies available. 
The policy booklet states you can update your home address, occupation, mileage and 
where you park your car at night, in the app and MyAccount at any time. You can also add or 
remove drivers or change the car on the policy if you get a new one. So the fact Mr C 
couldnt use the system to amend the level of cover isnt unfair or unreasonable because 
thats not the function of the form. 
Mr C thinks Hastings system should have prompted him to contact it to update the cover but 
I dont agree and I dont think its failure to do so it means there was an error in the system or 
that it resulted in any loss or unfairness. This is because, while it must have been frustrating 
to learn that the new insurance cost more than he initially thought, the second admin fee was 
refunded and Mr C is free to cancel the policy and buy cheaper insurance if thats what he 
chooses to do.
Mr C has said the waive of the second admin fee wasnt a gesture of goodwill because he 
did change his car. But Hastings has explained the level of cover should only be increased in 
the same transaction as the change of vehicle and so I think its initial decision to charge the 
fee was fair.
Our investigator has explained we cant tell Hastings to change its systems and that is 
correct. I understand what happened meant Mr C didnt appreciate the full cost of the policy 
until after he had changed the level of cover but I dont think it was Hastings fault or that hes 
lost out as a result.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman