DRN-2850446
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) continued 
to charge them the monthly fee for their Reward Platinum account during the Covid-19 
pandemic. They believe that they should be refunded at least part of this fee as they were 
unable to use the travel insurance due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They also believe that 
NatWest should refund an additional premium that they paid to be covered under the travel 
insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G hold a joint Reward Platinum account with NatWest. The account attracts a 
monthly £20 fee. In return it offers a range of benefits such as car breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance and worldwide travel insurance. 
Mr and Mrs G say NatWest should refund at least part of monthly account fee for their 
Reward Platinum account as they havent been able to use the travel insurance benefit due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs G complained to NatWest in December 2020. NatWest responded saying that it 
was not going to refund the account fees for the Reward Platinum account and if Mr and Mrs 
G wanted to, they could downgrade their account. 
It said that the Reward Platinum account comes with a range of benefits, not all of which 
were affected by the pandemic and some customers would be relying on benefits which 
could be used. Unhappy with NatWests response, Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint to 
this service. One of our adjudicators investigated it but concluded that NatWest hadnt acted 
unfairly. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept this outcome and they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
I note Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy when they tried to recover an additional premium that 
they paid under the travel insurance policy. I should highlight that this is a matter between 
the insurer and themselves - this does not relate to NatWest. So if they still are unhappy with 
the resolution of that issue, they would need to direct their concerns to the insurance 
provider who they paid the premium to.
I also can see that Mr and Mrs G have raised concerns that they contacted the travel 
insurance department and were told that NatWest had not decided whether to refund 
premiums. I should highlight that the travel insurance department is not run by NatWest, 
rather it is staffed by the insurer. So if they feel that they were mis-led in these calls, they 
would need to direct this to the insurer as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that NatWest needs to do anything. Let me explain why.
The account and its benefits that Mr and Mrs G have complained about is sold as a 
package. Because of this, account holders are unable to pick and choose what it comes 
with. And that also means it comes at a fixed price too. Therefore, if account holders dont 
feel that the combination of benefits that they receive from the package continues to provide 
good value for money, it is up to them to cancel it.
In this case, Mr and Mrs G mayve felt (quite understandably) that their account was poor 
value for money during the pandemic and they should get a refund as they were unable to 
use the travel insurance benefit. But the Reward Platinum packaged account does not 
operate like a typical insurance policy does. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 
months, it provides cover (and some non-insurance benefits) on a monthly rolling basis. 
Therefore, because Mr and Mrs G were not tied into keeping the Reward Platinum account, 
and as they were free to cancel it as soon as they felt it was no longer good value for money, 
I dont think that NatWest was being unreasonable by not offering them a discount on their 
monthly fees.
I note that Mr and Mrs G may have felt tied in, as they had paid an additional premium to be 
covered under the travel insurance policy. But again, I should highlight that this premium 
was not paid to NatWest and they would have to direct their concerns about this premium to 
the insurer. I cant hold NatWest liable for this premium or advice given in relation to the 
packaged account by a third party.
I should add that the decision by NatWest not to refund the packaged account fees for all 
customers was a commercial decision that it was entitled to make. It did though need to 
explain this clearly to Mr and Mrs G and set out their options going forward. I can see in the 
final response from NatWest it explained that the account fees would not be refunded and 
that it was up to Mr and Mrs G to decide whether to continue to pay for the account or cancel 
it if they preferred to do so. 
So after this point it was for Mr and Mrs G to downgrade their account if they wished to do 
so.
I understand that this may have been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs G. And I can understand 
how frustrating that it must have been, to not be able to use services that they were paying 
for. But ultimately NatWest has no obligation to refund account premiums when a consumer 
cant use part of the benefit they provide when the reason for this was not down to NatWest. 
I also cant see that NatWest did anything else wrong in relation to this complaint.
I should highlight that this decision represents the last stage in this services process. 
However, Mr and Mrs G are free to pursue this matter elsewhere such as court if they so 
wish.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman