DRN-1643763
 
The complaint
Mrs K says Santander UK plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in connection with a personal 
loan in 2009. The policy was added to Mrs Ks account when she applied for the loan online. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because she didnt think Santander had made the 
policys cost clear enough. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ks complaint because the information Santander gave her about 
the policys cost wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Santander says its online application included a calculator to give customers an idea of how 
much their loan would cost with and without the PPI. But use of the calculator wasnt 
mandatory, and the actual cost of the loan (including the policy) wasnt available until after 
the application had been credit scored.
Details of the PPI cost were not available until the loan was offered. Santander has provided 
a sample letter which shows the monthly cost of the PPI, and the total payable if the loan is 
protected for the full term. But the letter doesnt show the total cost of the loan without the 
PPI. So I dont think it would have been immediately obvious to Mrs K that the cost of the 
PPI represented a significant proportion of the overall loan.
Overall, I dont think Santanders information about the cost of the PPI was clear enough. I 
note that Mrs Ks reason for taking out the loan was to consolidate debts. As a result, I think 
Mrs K has lost out as a result of Santander's failings in this case, because I dont think she 
would have taken out the policy if shed been properly informed about its cost. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs K in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:Pay Mrs K the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK plc to pay compensation to 
Mrs K in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman