DRN-2746783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) delayed 
encashing their investments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A say they wanted to use their investments to buy a house and asked SJP to 
provide a total value of their investment and the profit made in the last twelve months. They 
said they asked SJP about five times between 24 February 2020 and 6 March but still no 
valuation had been provided to them. They explained they paid a deposit for the house 
purchase and spoke to SJP over the phone. They also say they provided instructions to 
encash their investments, but that prompt action wasnt taken.
 
The stock market was then negatively affected by the global pandemic. This meant they 
received less than they had expected when they withdrew. They say they made it clear they 
wanted to withdraw funds earlier and feel that they have lost out. Therefore, Mr and Mrs A 
complained to SJP in March 2020. They say the fact the instructions were not acted upon 
meant they suffered a financial loss. In addition to this, theyve spent money on legal fees, 
and they lost the deposit for the purchase of the property because it didnt go through. 
SJP didnt uphold the complaint. They felt that the advisor had kept in regular contact with 
Mr and Mrs A during this time and provided options in terms of their investments. They said 
that prior to 10 March 2020, they were still considering which course of action they would 
take. SJP say they would have only received the prices of 24 February if instructions had 
been received before noon on that day. They apologised that the valuation wasnt provided 
as quickly as Mr and Mrs A expected. They also accepted that Mrs As solely owned 
investments were surrendered using the prices of 12 March when they should have used 11 
March. They have now paid the difference for this. 
SJP also wrote to Mr and Mrs A in April 2020. They explained that they didnt receive a valid 
signed instruction until 10 March and the nature of funds meant that prices couldnt be 
guaranteed. They acknowledged that Mr and Mrs A could have seen the valuation sooner. 
But that a report had been sent on 12 February, which provided an estimate of funds 
available. SJP say a request couldve been made sooner if funds were required urgently. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt there had 
been some delay in providing the valuation but didnt feel that SJP had caused Mr and Mrs A 
a financial loss. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with the view. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the email correspondence from 24 February 2020. I can see Mr and Mrs A 
asked for a valuation and said they were thinking of buying a property. I can see SJP 
explained that the advisor would not be available for a meeting until 18 March but he could 
be free for a telephone call. Mr and Mrs A said a telephone call wasnt necessary, but they 
would like to see the figures. Im not persuaded there were clear instructions at this point to 
encash as Mr and Mrs A were still thinking about purchasing the property.
 
Its clear from this that Mr and Mrs A wanted to gain an understanding of the figures. Im not 
sure what action was taken at this point. Ive seen internal correspondence which suggests 
that the advisor sought to obtain information on 28 February but was concerned about the 
accuracy. However, I havent seen evidence beyond this or that Mr and Mrs A were informed 
of when they could expect the information. 
Further to this correspondence, Mr and Mrs A contacted SJP on 5 March 2020 to request a 
phone call from the advisor. They said theyd bought a house. I understand this call 
happened later that day and Ive seen the call note made by SJP. In the note the advisor 
recorded explaining that they could only give an approximate figure because of the volatility 
of the market. He provided an approximate figure but explained it could be lower depending 
when they were encashed. The note also refers to the letter for encashment. Therefore, I 
can see Mr and Mrs A were provided with information about the valuation.
Mr and Mrs A have asked us not to rely on the phone notes because they dont feel they are 
accurate and only reflect SJPs position. Unfortunately, there are no call recordings 
available. So, Ive considered Mr and Mrs As comments carefully. However, I dont feel it 
would be appropriate to exclude the call notes altogether as both parties accept the 
telephone calls did happen. There is also nothing within the notes and the correspondence 
at that time which would lead me to conclude they are inaccurate. 
Ive also seen the email sent by Mr and Mrs A on 6 March 2020. They confirmed they were 
buying the house. Im satisfied at this point their plans had become more concrete and can 
see they wanted to know the amount of money in their SJP account so they could arrange to 
withdraw the funds and close it. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A feel strongly that their instruction 
was clear at this point.
I cant see the advisor returned with the valuation or the form to be signed for executing the 
instruction on that day. Mr and Mrs A say they werent aware they needed to have 
completed the instruction form before the funds were withdrawn. But I understand they have 
had previous dealings where they have needed to complete a signed instruction before 
withdrawing funds. Also, I wouldnt have expected SJP to have withdrawn the funds based 
on the contents of their email alone as Mr and Mrs A had said they wanted the value in order 
to arrange withdrawal rather than a direct instruction to withdraw funds immediately.  
 
Mr and Mrs A called SJP on 9 March 2020 with concerns about the stock market slump. I 
can see SJP did discuss Mr and Mrs As concerns and options. The note also records that 
SJP would look into the matter and phone Mr and Mrs A first thing the following morning. 
This correspondence indicates that Mr and Mrs A were watching the stock markets. 
There were further calls on 10 March in which they discussed encashing the funds. I cant 
see from the notes that Mr and Mrs A were being prevented or dissuaded from withdrawing 
the funds. Although, they were reasonably advised of their option to wait as the stock market 
may recover over time. The encashment letter was sent to them and Mr and Mrs A returned 
it quickly so their instructions could be executed. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im not persuaded SJP have caused Mr and Mrs A financial 
loss or that SJP should have taken their email of 6 March 2020 as an instruction to withdraw 
the funds. I fully appreciate that they intended to withdraw the money in order to fund the 
purchase of the house. However, in the email they said they wanted a value so they could arrange withdrawal. I note SJP could have sent the appropriate forms in response to this 
email given the intention and Mr and Mrs A say they would have filled them in and returned 
them immediately as they did on 10 March. 
I fully appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs A feel about wanting to encash the funds earlier. 
However, I must consider that they now have the benefit of hindsight. When the encashment 
forms were sent on 10 March, Mr and Mrs A had clear concerns about the stock market. 
This is shown in their emails and the call notes. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs A had clear 
intentions to withdraw the funds, Im of the view that their concerns about the stock market 
were a large driver of the urgency to encash on 10 March. This occurred as a result of the 
global pandemic which wasnt a foreseeable event. 
Therefore, I cant say Mr and Mrs A would have returned the forms immediately were it not 
for these concerns. 
Nevertheless, I would have expected SJP to have responded to Mr and Mrs As requests for 
a valuation more promptly. But SJP did speak to Mr and Mrs A over the phone to give them 
an indication of the valuation and explained that it would be difficult to give an accurate 
figure. Im satisfied they did have a rough idea of the value at the time from their 
conversations with SJP. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A have said they wanted something 
more certain for the purposes of purchasing the house but as these were investments the 
real value wouldnt have been realised until withdrawal. From what Ive seen, the instructions 
to encash their investments came on 10 March, and not before. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs A wouldve encashed their investment in February when they were 
asking for valuations.
Whilst I appreciate my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs A, Im not persuaded 
that SJP have caused them a financial loss or that they acted unreasonably in respect of 
executing Mr and Mrs As instructions. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman