DRN-3230712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the mortgage products offered by HSBC UK Bank Plc trading 
as First Direct. They say the interest rates were unfairly high, meaning they had to re-
mortgage with another lender offering better interest rates. They ask for compensation for 
additional interest, distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had an offset mortgage with First Direct. They contacted First Direct in June 
2021 as their product was due to expire. They say the mortgage products offered by First 
Direct had interest rates higher than their previous product. Mr and Mrs E say this is unfair, 
irrational and profiteering when the base rate is lower and funding costs for banks have 
reduced.
Mr and Mrs E re-mortgaged with another lender offering better interest rates. This took time 
and effort and they were on First Directs standard variable rate (SVR) while they arranged 
this. 
Our investigator said First Direct is entitled to make a commercial decision about the interest 
rate products it offers. He said while Mr and Mrs E werent happy with the rates it offered, 
First Direct hadnt made an error or treated them unfairly.
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree. Mr E said they hadnt been treated fairly. He said hed been 
penalised for wanting an offset mortgage as the interest rates for offset mortgages increased 
while the rates for other mortgages fell. Mr E said theyd been forced to move away from 
First Direct. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should say that rules on mortgage regulation dont say that a lender has to offer new 
preferential interest rates to its customers once their old ones expire. And theres nothing to 
say that a lender has to offer customers rates equivalent to or better than their previous rate, 
even if interest rates generally have fallen. 
Like many lenders, First Direct does offer new interest rate products to its customers. It 
makes a commercial decision about the range of products it offers, including the interest 
rates, which its entitled to do. Mr and Mrs E were frustrated to find that the rates First Direct 
offers for its offset mortgages are different to the rates offered for repayment mortgages. In 
its response to Mr and Mrs Es complaint First Direct said this was because offset mortgages 
have different terms and conditions to repayment mortgages, such as being interest only and 
allowing the offset of savings against the balance (which reduces the interest payable).
First Direct gave Mr and Mrs E information about the products available to them. As Mr and 
Mrs E had an offset mortgage, they were able to choose from the range of products 
generally available to customers with offset mortgages. It seems that Mr and Mrs E might 
have wanted to retain their offset mortgage and also benefit from the lower interest rate 
products available to customers with repayment mortgages. I dont think First Direct had to 
offer this to them, or was unfair in not doing so.
Mr and Mrs E looked elsewhere to see what rates other lenders could offer them. They were 
able to secure a better rate by re-mortgaging. I appreciate that this took some time and 
effort. And they were on First Directs SVR until their re-mortgage completed. But I dont 
think First Direct made an error or treated them unfairly. It follows that I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to require First Direct to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs E. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman