DRN-3768215
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr W has confirmed that he elected to join the BSPS2. 
Mr W approached Acumen in January 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was aged 29 and lived with his partner who was the same 
age. They had two dependent children aged seven and two. Mr W was employed full time 
earning around £40,000 per year. His partner was in part time employment earning around 
£12,000 a year. They owned their own home that was valued at £140,000 and had an 
outstanding mortgage of £101,000. They also had other debt of just under £20,000 and no 
savings or investments. 
Acumen carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it said was highest 
medium or seven on a scale of one to ten. Mr W did confirm that he was able to take some 
investment risk at the time. 
In respect of Mr Ws pension arrangements: 
Mr W had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS dated 
13 December 2017. This showed that he had over six and a half years service. He was 
entitled to an annual pension of about £4,000 at retirement when he left the scheme. The 
CETV was about £83,500.
Mr W had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. The fact find 
shows that he was contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 
8%.
Acumen set out its analysis and recommendations in a suitability report. It isnt dated but I 
understand it was also produced in January 2018. Acumen advised Mr W to transfer his 
pension benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds in funds that met his 
attitude to risk. 
The report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr W wanted to build as big 
a pension fund as possible over the next thirty years and to have control of how that is 
achieved. He wanted to have autonomy and flexibility of how he was able to access his 
pension funds as he approached retirement. He also wanted to provide a legacy for his 
family and would prefer this to be as a lump sum rather than a regular income.
Mr W complained in February 2022 to Acumen about the suitability of the transfer advice. He 
said that he had received a letter from the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) which informed him that he may have received unsuitable advice to transfer. And he 
made his complaint after this. He said that advantages of moving to the BSPS2 were not 
made clear to him and he said he was led to believe this option was not suitable for him. 
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that the transfer was suitable and was in Mr 
Ws best interests. Mr Ws circumstances were properly and fully assessed, and he was 
given full information about the DB transfer. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld 
the complaint and recommended that Acumen pay compensation. This was because he 
thought that the advice would likely lead to Mr W having lower retirement benefits. It was too 
early to plan for flexibility in his retirement and he should have been advised to concentrate 
on his own retirement income rather than the different death benefits a personal pension 
could offer. 
Acumen initially didnt respond to the Investigators opinion and so both parties were 
informed that an ombudsman would consider the complaint in due course. 
The industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has since developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator. And Acumen has now confirmed that it would be prepared 
to do a loss calculation using this and pay any compensation that arises.  
That said, as far as I can see, Acumen hasnt performed a loss assessment yet and 
agreement hasnt been reached by both sides, even though Acumen has said that in 
principle it will calculate if any compensation is due to Mr W. So, Ive looked at whether the 
advice was suitable for Mr W and how Acumen should put this right if it isnt. Im now issuing 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Acumen 
should have only considered recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it 
was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Acumen was required to carry out by 
the regulator calculated the critical yield. This was how much Mr Ws pension fund 
would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB 
scheme. The critical yield was 6.7% to match the full pension hed have been entitled 
to under the scheme at age 65. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid 
from 65 the critical yield was 5.4%. There wasnt any analysis done for retirement at 
different ages, or if Mr W took tax-free cash. 
Mr W had a relatively high attitude to risk, and I can accept that given the longer time 
he had until retirement, that he would be prepared to take some risk. But as he had 
not invested before Im not persuaded that it was in his best interests to take a 
significant risk with his pension benefits. 
However, considering the discount rate, that is a measure of what is a reasonable 
growth assumption, was 4.7% for 35 years to retirement and the regulators 
projection rates, I think Mr W was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 
65, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the 
PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. And if Mr W wanted 
to retire early its likely that these critical yields would be higher still and he would be 
even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
And the suitability report noted that transferring to a personal pension was unlikely to 
achieve the relevant critical yields in order to match the benefits of the DB scheme. 
Acumen said that, if the assumptions are correct you may receive a lesser amount by transferring. In other words Acumen recognised that transferring would most likely 
mean Mr W would be worse off in retirement by transferring. So, I think the transfer 
wasnt in Mr Ws best interests for this reason. 
Acumen said the transfer was suitable for Mr W as it allowed him to potentially retire 
early and to access his pension flexibly. And he was prepared to receive a lower 
income to do this. It is true to say the personal pension could be more flexible, as 
from the DB scheme Mr W would have to take any tax-free cash he wanted at the 
same time as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in the personal 
pension. 
But the first problem with this is that Mr W was only 29 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he, understandably, didnt have any defined retirement 
plans. Other than a generic want to retire early if possible. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr W to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he 
didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. I think it was too soon to make 
any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
And if Acumen had advised Mr W to stay in the BSPS2 and he decided he needed 
greater flexibility than the scheme provided later on, then he could have chosen to 
transfer from that scheme nearer to his retirement age.
Secondly, I understand that Mr W and his employer had begun contributing to a 
recently set up DC pension scheme. Mr W and his employer were together 
contributing around 14% of Mr Ws salary to that pension. Given the amounts that 
were being invested, that his salary and contributions would likely increase over time 
and investment returns would increase all of this, Mr W would likely build up a 
significant amount of money in the DC scheme. 
This would provide Mr W with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take the benefits in 
a set way. Mr W could have taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the 
income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr W retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have likely given him 
the flexibility to retire early, if that was what he ultimately decided to do. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr W needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time.
It was documented at the time of sale that the spouses pension the DB scheme had 
would not pass to his partner, as they were not married. And Mr W said he liked the 
idea that he could pass the fund on to his partner and maybe his children. But the 
priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement. 
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr W drew in his lifetime. And so may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr W may have thought it would. 
If Mr W had wanted to provide a lump sum for his family, Acumen couldve explored 
life insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had disposable income through 
which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been considered 
on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But 
there's little evidence Acumen did so. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Acumen should not have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ws desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr W  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr W may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Acumens role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established and Mr W had elected to join this. But even if not, the PPF 
still provided Mr W with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr W was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering 
the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ws best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr W received from Acumen 
was unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr W £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr W said that finding out that he may be worse off in retirement has 
caused him stress and anxiety. I dont doubt that Mr W has been caused concern in relation 
to his retirement planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the company 
he worked for. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. 
And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have stayed in the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Acumen should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Acumen based the inputs into the 
calculator on.For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Acumen should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Acumens offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Acumen may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Acumen should pay Mr W £300 as compensation for the distress the poor advice caused 
him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman