DRN-2569840
The complaint
Mrs W complains that London and Country Mortgages Ltd caused delays with her re-
mortgage. She asks that it compensates her for additional interest costs.
What happened
Mrs W asked L&C for mortgage advice. She wanted to re-mortgage when the fixed interest 
product on her existing mortgage expired. She says she had to chase L&C, despite which 
completion was delayed. Mrs W says L&C didnt tell her solicitors the date she wanted to 
complete. As a result, she paid interest at her previous lenders standard variable rate 
(SVR). Shed like L&C to compensate her for this.
Our investigator said while the re-mortgage had taken longer than Mrs W had hoped, L&C 
wasnt responsible for the delays. L&C didnt have any control over the lenders nominated 
solicitors, which Mrs W had chosen to use. 
Mrs W didnt agree. She said L&C should have told the solicitors about her deadline to 
complete, which was the express purpose of her engaging L&C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive relied on evidence from both parties, including L&Cs contact notes, to summarise below 
what happened with Mrs Ws re-mortgage.
In April 2019 Mrs W contacted L&C as she wanted to re-mortgage. L&C recommended a 
mortgage. It asked Mrs W for information and whether she accepted the recommendation. 
L&C received a response in mid-June 2019.
L&C made a new mortgage recommendation with a different lender. It made an application 
in mid-July 2019, after it received Mrs Ws income evidence. The lenders valuation was 
lower than expected. Mrs W asked L&C to query the valuation. L&C chased the lender or a 
response, but it didnt offer more information about the valuation.
In late August 2019 Mrs W decided to look at other lenders. L&C recommended a mortgage 
with another lender and submitted an application on behalf of Mrs W the next day. The 
lender issued a mortgage offer on 25 September 2019. 
The mortgage completed on 15 October 2019. This was after Mrs Ws existing product had 
expired and her lender applied its SVR. 
Was L&C responsible for any delays?
I dont think L&C was responsible for any delays here. I think it acted promptly to request the 
information it needed, send reminders and get in contact with Mrs W. 
L&C says once the mortgage offer was issued responsibility for completing the mortgage 
was with the lenders nominated solicitors, which Mrs W had agreed to use. The mortgage 
offer says the lender would pay the conveyancing fee, and the conveyancer would act only 
for the lender. 
L&Cs recommendation letter said it had no control over the solicitors, the contract was 
between Mrs W and the solicitors and she should direct queries about the service to the 
lender. I think Mrs W was made aware that L&C wasnt responsible for the solicitors. 
Nonetheless, L&C chased the solicitors on behalf of Mrs W, and raised a complaint with 
them on her behalf. If the solicitors didnt have the information they needed to complete the 
mortgage within Mrs Ws timescales, I dont think this was due to an error by L&C.
Mrs W raised a complaint with the solicitors, and says they responded to say they were 
acting for the lender and didnt have a duty of care to her. Mrs W says no-one is taking 
responsibility for the delays, and I can understand her frustration. I should make it clear that 
Im not making any findings about whether the solicitors caused delays or made errors  
thats not something I can look into. 
Im sorry that Mrs Ws mortgage didnt complete in time for her to avoid the additional costs 
of being on her lenders SVR. I dont think L&C made errors or caused delays. And I dont 
think L&C was responsible for the solicitors, who were acting for the lender. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require L&C to pay compensation to Mrs W.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman