DRN-3047366
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted access to their bank accounts. 
And theyd like compensation for the impact caused.
What happened
Mr E and Mrs M had three bank accounts with HSBC. Mr Es also the director of a limited 
company, Ill call A, which had separate bank accounts with HSBC.
In July 2019 HSBC restricted access to As accounts. Ive considered this complaint in a 
separate decision. 
On 4 November 2019 Mr E and Mrs Ms three accounts were restricted. And on 
9 November 2019 Mr E asked for their accounts to be closed and the money returned to 
them. 
On 27 January 2020 Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts were closed and their funds were returned.
Mr E complained to HSBC about the restriction of their accounts, and the delay in their funds 
being released. 
HSBC looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt uphold it  they said theyd followed the terms 
and conditions of Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts when restricting them and withholding their 
funds. 
Mr E and Mrs M didnt agree so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr E and Mrs Ms complaint. And initially they thought 
HSBC needed to do more. They concluded that the bank had acted fairly in restricting their 
accounts  however they should have given them 60 days notice rather than closing their 
accounts immediately. Our investigator awarded £50 compensation for the impact caused. 
HSBC didnt agree with our investigators opinion  they explained that Mr E had requested 
for his and Mrs Ms accounts to be closed therefore they hadnt closed them with immediate 
notice. And theyd followed his request.
 
Our investigator issued a second view, in which she concluded that HSBC had acted fairly in 
restricting access to Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts and closing them on 27 January 2020. She 
concluded that HSBC didnt need to anything more. 
Mr E didnt agree. In response he said their accounts were blocked for a very long time and 
meant they couldnt make use of their money. 
As Mr E and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators conclusion, its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate that Mr E and Mrs M are unhappy that restrictions were placed on their 
personal accounts businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their 
accounts and to comply with various laws and regulations. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts. In summary, 
section 19 states that HSBC can block their use of any payment device if they believe its 
necessary for three reasons including security concerns. And Im satisfied that HSBC have 
evidence they had legitimate concerns here that they might breach their legal and regulatory 
obligations.
Mr E and Mrs M agreed to this term as customers and its a reasonable term. Im satisfied 
that HSBC were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations and in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the accounts when it reviewed Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts.
Therefore, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it initially blocked Mr E and Mrs Ms 
accounts and didnt allow them access to their funds.
Ive considered the length of time Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts were blocked for. And HSBCs 
actions when releasing their funds. Their account was first restricted on 4 November 2019, 
and the funds were released on 27 January 2020. I appreciate that Mr E and Mrs M are 
unhappy about the length of time HSBC held on to their funds. Ive seen evidence from the 
bank to explain the activity they undertook during this delay. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the bank had legitimate concerns and because of HSBCs legal and regulatory 
obligations they needed to carry out appropriate checks before releasing the funds.
Ive briefly considered HSBCs actions in closing Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts. However, as 
Ive already explained both parties agree that Mr E requested the closure of their accounts. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when following their customers instructions. 
Mr E has argued that the restriction of their bank accounts caused them financial hardship. 
However, for the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly in
restricting access to Mr E and Mrs Ms accounts. I realise this will disappoint Mr E and Mrs M 
however it follows that I dont think any compensation is due.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman