DRN-4138145
The complaint
Mr H complains that Tilney Investment Management Services (Tilney) informed him that he 
could make a tax free withdrawal from his self-invested pension plan (SIPP) from the 
uncrystallised funds, however when the payment was made it was after deduction of income 
tax. Mr H would like Tilney to compensate him for the tax he paid and for the impact the 
matter had on his situation.  
What happened
Mr H held a SIPP which was managed by Tilney. In July 2021 Tilney contacted Mr H to ask if 
he would like to undertake an annual review of his plan. Mr H declined but stated that he 
would most likely need to withdraw £10,000 from the plan around October 2021 for home 
improvements and extra emergency funds. 
Tilneys adviser asked its administration team if there was sufficient cash for the withdrawal 
after checking with the provider on the crystallised and uncrystallised spilt of funds. A 
benefits information screenshot using fund values from 24 January 2020 showed that, of the 
£429,716.84 in the SIPP, £54,663.68 was uncrystallised. The rest was in capped drawdown 
from which a regular monthly income was being drawn. 
Tilney advised Mr H that he should withdraw the funds from the uncrystallised portion of the 
SIPP and the withdrawal was made at the appropriate time. But it would appear that the 
figures Tilney used to advise Mr H were incorrect and the withdrawal was paid with income 
tax deducted. 
So Mr H complained to the SIPP provider. He said that when the payment was made he only 
received £8,056.80 instead of the £10,000. He questioned why he was told the payment 
would come from his uncrystallised funds and be tax free, whereas he had in fact paid 
income tax on the withdrawal.
The SIPP provider explained that all Mr Hs funds were crystallised, therefore no TFC was 
available, so Mr H complained to Tilney. Tilney said it was unfortunate that income tax had 
been taken but it had provided the information in good faith based on what the SIPP provider 
has said. 
The SIPP provider said that the information it provided Tilney showed a date of 
24 January 2020 at the bottom of the screen so the adviser should have asked for more 
updated figures. However, it also explained that Mr H had withdrawn the remaining TFC of 
£13,665.92 in February 2020  leaving no uncrystallised funds in the plan. 
So Mr H said he wanted Tilney to compensate him for the £1,943.20 hed paid in income tax 
and pay him £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Tilney said it was unfortunate 
that it had provided incorrect information and ought to have checked its accuracy before it 
passed it on to Mr H, so it offered him £100 for raising his expectations of being able to 
make a tax free withdrawal. But it said Mr H ought to have known hed withdrawn the last of 
his TFC and so it wasnt liable to repay the income tax hed paid as this withdrawal would 
always have been taxable. It also said Mr H hadnt provided the information it requested to 
support the idea of whether he had other funds available elsewhere that he could have used 
for the home improvements.
 
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think it should be upheld as he didnt think 
Mr H was entitled to a tax free withdrawal. He thought Tilney could have arranged another 
withdrawal if Mr H required further funds and he thought Tilneys offer of £100 for the 
inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable. He made the following points in support of 
his findings:
Mr H ought to have been aware that he withdrew the last of his TFC some months 
before.
There was little evidence to show that Mr H had other funds that he could have used 
to carry out home improvements and top up his emergency fund  so it was likely he 
would have had to increase his withdrawal to cover the income tax that he had to 
pay.
If Tilney had provided an up to date valuation and an accurate picture of his plan it 
was likely he would still have gone ahead and requested the funds. 
It wasnt fair to ask Tilney to pay the income tax bill as Mr H would always have had 
to pay income tax on any withdrawal.
But Tilney had provided incorrect information which gave Mr H false expectation  so 
it should pay some compensation for its error. 
Mr H didnt agree and made the following points in response:
Tilney failed to achieve two outcomes that the regulator has set out for firms to 
achieve. Its adviser didnt exercise reasonable skill and care because they provided 
information which was out of date and hadnt been checked. 
He disputed the point about being aware that he ought to have known that hed used 
up his TFC allowance. He said he relied upon his adviser for such matters, and it was 
incumbent on Tilney to have known this information. So Tilneys advice had been 
wrong.
If hed been given correct advice, he might have capped his withdrawal at £5,000 as 
this would have been sufficient for the home repairs and to put a smaller sum in his 
emergency fund. He provided an invoice to show the cost of the home repairs. He 
said he wasnt given the opportunity to make this choice because of the incorrect 
information he was given.
He doesnt want Tilney to pay his tax bill  but thinks that would be suitable 
compensation for Tilney to pay for its negligent advice.
It isnt for us to presume what he would have done had he been given the correct 
information or whether he could have achieved his objectives using other sources of 
capital outside of the pension. He thinks this is too speculative and goes against our 
own websites statement that we make decisions based on the facts and evidence 
in each case. 
The investigator then explained how our decisions are made  which includes using the fair 
and reasonable test from DISP 3.6 of the regulators handbook. But as no resolution could 
be found here the complaints been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I know Mr H will 
be disappointed with this outcome and Ive seen the strength of his feelings on the matter. 
But I dont think Tilney should have to compensate him to the value of the income tax he 
paid, and I think its offer for the error it did make is fair and reasonable. So Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this decision.
Whether the withdrawal could be received tax free?
When Mr H suggested that he might want to withdraw £10,000 from his plan in 
October 2021, he asked Tilney to make sure this is available so that I can tell (the provider) 
to release it. So while he didnt ask for advice, Mr H did suggest that he wanted Tilney to 
take whichever actions were required to ensure the funds were available to him. The adviser 
asked an internal team to check whether there was sufficient cash for Mr H to be able to 
carry out such a request and, following its response, told him that you can draw up to 
£13,665.92 as TFC. I would suggest this is where you should take the lump sum from as it 
would be tax free.
I can understand why Mr H would have trusted that information, although I am aware that he 
had requested the remaining TFC from his plan in February 2020  some 17 months before 
he asked Tilney to arrange a withdrawal of a further £10,000. But I have also taken into 
account that he didnt tell Tilney the £10,000 should be tax free, he was given that 
information by the adviser in her email of August 2021. So its clear that Tilney provided 
incorrect information to Mr H  which Ill return to later. But its also clear that regardless of 
what Tilney said, no further TFC was available to Mr H at that time  or indeed would be 
available at any point in the future. The important point is that, regardless of what error 
Tilney has made here, the SIPP simply no longer held any uncrystallised funds or TFC and 
therefore tax would have been due on any withdrawal Mr H made. 
Of course Tilney ought to have made H aware of that fact, but whichever arrangements it 
subsequently made for him to withdraw funds would have involved him paying income tax on 
the proceeds. So it wouldnt be fair to tell Tilney to compensate Mr H to value of the income 
tax he paid. To do that would put Mr H into a better financial position than he ought now to 
be in which isnt fair or reasonable. But I do need to consider what Mr H might have done if 
hed been given the correct information in case I think that mitigation might have led him to 
incur a lower tax charge.
What might Mr H have done?
Mr H doesnt think we should come to a decision on the basis of what he might have done if 
hed been made aware of the correct tax position relating to the withdrawal. However, I note 
that in his last submission Mr H did suggest that if hed been made aware of that information 
he might have capped the withdrawal. He provided an invoice for the work he had done on 
his home and said, in addition to reducing the amount he put into an emergency fund, this 
would have only required him to withdraw £5,000.
Ive thought about this matter very carefully and of course, in order to say what I think would 
have happened, I will have to decide on the balance of probability as theres no evidence to 
confirm exactly what Mr H would have done. In this case Mr H was the one that started the 
conversation about the withdrawal in July 2021, citing his reasons for what he wanted it for 
and when. So, based on the evidence that Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that he 
needed the funds he asked for and would have withdrawn them irrespective of the income 
tax position. If Mr H had simply wanted to use his remaining TFC, based on what Tilney told 
him, then I think he would have asked for the £13,665.92 that he was told was available in 
August 2021. And if he thought the cost of the repairs and to replenish his emergency fund 
was only going to be around £5,000 then I think he would have requested that amount. In my view Mr H had worked out how much he thought he would need and wanted that 
figure. Even if he had been made aware of the income tax that would be deducted, I dont 
think this would have been the sole driver in making him reduce the amount he wanted  
which I think was influenced by what he thought he needed, not how much might be 
deducted through tax. Mr H wanted £10,000 and if he had been advised that he would have 
to pay income tax on the withdrawal  which Ive already said was unavoidable - then his 
options would have been to withdraw enough to pay the income tax on top of the £10,000 or 
to ask for £10,000 but receive the net amount.
 
Either way I dont think theres any evidence to support his claim that he would only have 
withdrawn £5,000, and if he had required the full £10,000 after tax he would have been able 
to ask for an additional withdrawal for those extra funds.
 
But even if Im wrong in my assumption of what Mr H might have done regarding the funds, 
the fact remains that any withdrawal he would have made would have been taxable both 
now and in the future. However, I have to consider that Tilney did raise Mr Hs expectations 
of what he might receive here, so Ive gone on to consider what it should do to put things 
right. 
Tilneys offer of compensation
Tilney has accepted that it should have updated the figures which showed the value of 
Mr Hs funds on the providers website. The screenshot Ive seen shows the value was quite 
outdated and Tilney now understands that it had the option of refreshing the values online 
before communicating them to Mr H. Although Tilney has explained that it doesnt use that 
website very often it shouldnt have offered to do the administration of the withdrawal  and 
provide information and advice unless it was confident in its actions. It if had updated the 
values it would have discovered the true position of the SIPP, and been able to confirm to 
Mr H that he would have to pay income tax or might need to take a greater withdrawal to 
offset the tax if he wanted £10,000.
 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr H because, although Tilney couldnt have 
affected whether the withdrawal was taxable, it did raise his expectations of receiving TFC. I 
have thought about whether Mr H ought to have known his TFC had been eroded by the 
withdrawal he made previously in 2020  but I think he was entitled to rely on his adviser 
here. Mr Hs expectation of what he might receive was raised over a period of a couple of 
months and could have caused him to have to rethink his spending plans. But ultimately the 
amount he received was sufficient for his needs. And as Ive said previously this was a 
genuine error from Tilney, which while it could have been avoided, would still have led to the 
same outcome of paying tax on the withdrawal which Im satisfied Mr H would have 
accepted regardless.
So, in all the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that the offer of £100 Tilney has 
made is fair and reasonable and within the range of what Id expect to see for an error such 
as this. 
   
My final decision
Tilney Investment Management Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Tilney Investment Management Services Limited should pay £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman