DRN-2826109
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited provided her with a settlement figure but 
refused to close her account after shed paid what had been stated.
  
What happened
Mrs O had an unsecured loan with Shawbrook Bank. She says she contacted it on 2 
March 2020 and asked it for a settlement figure to clear the debt in full. She says it told her 
she owed it £1220. She paid this amount using her debit card.
Subsequently Mrs O says Shawbrook Bank sent her a direct debit form in the post. She 
contacted it to ask why shed been sent this form. It explained to her that the amount it had 
told her to pay hadnt been correct and there was still an amount outstanding. But she 
says it told her that in light of what had happened the residual balance would be written 
off. It also offered to pay her £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs O says that Shawbrook Bank didnt write off the balance and has continued to pursue 
her for the balance. It sent her an arrears letter on 5 July 2020 and has applied a £15 
charge to the account. She complained to Shawbrook Bank about what had happened.
Shawbrook Bank investigated her complaint. It acknowledged that it had given her 
incorrect information when shed contacted it on 2 March 2020. It also acknowledged that 
shed been told on 12 May 2020 that her account would be referred to be written off. It said 
it was sorry about the incorrect information shed been given. But it said she was required 
to pay the outstanding balance on the account. It said the balance outstanding on 2 March 
2020 had been £2109.45  so she still owed it £889.45. Because of that it had sent her a 
notice of default on 5 July 2020 and applied charges to her account.
Mrs O wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She said that she didnt think Shawbrook Bank should have to 
write off the residual balance on the account. She said Mrs O had benefitted from the loan 
shed received, and it was right that she should have to repay it together with any interest 
that applied. She said our role wasnt to fine or punish a business when it made a mistake 
but she did think that Shawbrook Bank needed to do more to resolve the complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said Shawbrook Bank should remove 
any adverse information (including any default) it had registered with credit reference 
agencies about Mrs Os account. She also said that any interest it had charged Mrs O after 
March 2020 should be written off until such times as it agreed a repayment plan with Mrs 
O. She also thought it should pay Mrs O an additional £100 for trouble and upset shed 
been caused.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said:
Our investigator had made a finding as if the error had not happened. She also 
thought it wasnt correct to approach the error by considering only what 
Shawbrook Bank had done to correct it;
The situation had a significant impact on her  including her mental health at 
what was already a difficult time due to the pandemic;
Shawbrook Bank hadnt just made one mistake in this case and it had failed to 
take any responsibility to try to resolve the issue.
Because Mrs O didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Shawbrook Bank gave Mrs O incorrect information. Ive 
listened to the call she made to Shawbrook Bank on 2 March 2020. She made clear 
that she wanted to close the account. She was initially told by the adviser (adviser A) 
that the balance on the account was £1800 but when she queried why this should be - 
given that shed made several payments to the account - she was told that the balance 
was actually £1220.
This information was incorrect. Mrs O paid the amount requested and asked for 
confirmation of the settlement to be sent to her. She was told this would be sent within 
14 days. She also confirmed that the direct debit mandate would be cancelled.
Ive thought about the information Mrs O was given during the call and whether it was 
reasonable for her to have relied on what shed been told. Shawbrook Bank has 
provided copies of various documents which it had given to Mrs O since the date 
shed entered into the loan. These documents include the following:
The agreement she signed on 29 November 2017.
This document made clear that the original loan was for £1800. There was a 
Buy Now Pay Later option under which Mrs O could pay back the £1800 and 
close the loan. Under this option thered be no interest charges. But she had to 
pay the £1800 before 4 December 2018 to avail of this option.
Letter dated October 2018
This letter explained to Mrs O that the Buy Now Pay Later option would expire 
on 4 December 2018. It also made clear that if she didnt repay the loan by that 
date she could make payments of £38.72 per month over a ten-year period. 
Interest would be added to the loan for the twelve-month period from the date 
shed taken out the loan until 4 December 2018.
Letter dated 5 December 2018
This letter confirmed that the Buy Now Pay Later option period had expired. It 
said interest would be added to the loan.
Annual statement dated 4 December 2019
This statement was for the period from 4 December 2018 to 3 December 
2019. It showed that interest had been added to the loan on 4 December 
2018 and the balance at that time was £2127.55. It also showed monthly 
interest amounts being added to the loan and credits for each direct debit 
payment made by Mrs O. The balance outstanding at 3 December 2019 was 
£2045.17
Having looked at all of this information Im satisfied Mrs O wouldve known that interest 
had been added to the account and that in December 2019 the balance was just over 
£2000.When she contacted Shawbrook Bank on 2 March 2020 she was told that infact the 
balance was still £1800. She queried this because she thought it hadnt taken account 
of the payments shed made.
Shawbrook Bank hasnt explained why its systems recorded the balance of the loan as
£1800 and it hasnt explained why its adviser then simply deducted the payments Mrs O 
had made from the initial loan figure of £1800 to arrive at a settlement figure of £1220.
At this point, having listened to the telephone conversation, I can understand why Mrs O 
may have thought that the Buy Now Pay Later option was still available to her. There 
was no mention of any interest having been added to the account. I can also 
understand why she wouldve thought she could rely on what she was being told by 
Shawbrook Banks own representative.
Shawbrook Bank says its adviser made a mistake. And I agree that the settlement 
figure quoted to Mrs O was incorrect. That doesnt mean that Mrs O should immediately 
be entitled to rely on that error and say that the debt should be written off. So, Ive 
looked at what happened after 2 March 2020.
Did Mrs O change her position as a result of having relied on the mistaken settlement 
figure?
In March 2020, when Mrs O contacted Shawbrook Bank to repay the loan, she says she 
was in receipt of funds from a property sale. She mentioned this during the telephone 
call. So, she was in a position to use those funds to repay the full amount that was 
owed. But by May 2020 her position had changed because of how she needed to use 
the rest of those monies.
Shes told us about how the restrictions imposed by the UK government in response 
to the global pandemic affected her business and the impact thats had on her 
financial position. She says she wasnt able to work for six months and subsequently 
her income has been significantly reduced. So, I think Mrs O changed her position as 
a result of the mistake Shawbrook Bank made. Because of what happened after the 
UK government imposed restrictions in March 2020, Mrs O used the funds, available 
to her in March 2020, in a different way.
What did Shawbrook Bank tell Mrs O about the mistake after 2 March 2020?
Mrs O contacted Shawbrook Bank on 12 May 2020. She explained that shed been told 
the account had been settled. The adviser (adviser B) explained the error thatd been 
made. He then said that this was a misconduct offence and he would raise a ticket to 
get the balance written off. He told Mrs O not to worry about the matter and hed raise a 
complaint for her.
This call is significant because Shawbrook Banks adviser told Mrs O that an error had 
been made but the residual balance would be written off. This was a clear 
acknowledgment that an error had been made but despite that, Shawbrook Bank would 
stand over the settlement figure thatd been given. Shawbrook Bank says that this was 
another mistake. But, having thought about it, I think Mrs O was entitled to rely on what 
she was told on this occasion.
Ive also listened to a call between Mrs O and Shawbrook Bank made on 5 June 2020. 
During that call the adviser (adviser C) said that if it turned out that adviser A had 
given her wrong information thenobviously the complaint would be on your side. Thered be no dispute about 
that.
Having listened to the call, I think this also meant that Mrs O could expect Shawbrook 
Bank to honour the incorrect settlement figure shed been given.
Subsequently Shawbrook Bank said that it wanted her to pay the difference between 
what it had told her and what it should have told her was required to settle the account 
- £889.45. And it said it wouldnt ask her to pay anything more provided she paid this 
amount within 28 days of its letter dated 16 June 2020. But, having considered the 
assurances she was given verbally on two previous occasions, I dont think Shawbrook 
Bank acted fairly and reasonably when it backtracked on what it had told her during the 
two telephone conversations with adviser B and adviser C.
Distress
Ive considered what happened as a result of Shawbrook Bank not writing off the 
residual balance. Mrs O received arrears letters and telephone calls from Shawbrook 
Bank. Its also filed adverse information about her account with credit reference 
agencies. She says that Shawbrook Banks demands for the additional money has 
impacted her mental health.
I can understand that it wouldve been distressing to get arrears letters and 
demands for payment. And, Mrs O has also told us about how the adverse 
information filed with credit reference agencies impacted on credit limits shed been 
given by other credit providers
Shawbrook Bank has already paid her £100 for distress and inconvenience. Its also 
offered to pay her an additional £20 because it didnt re-send a letter to her after 
agreeing to do that. Ill comment further below on whether I think it needs to do anything 
more.
Conclusion
Having considered everything here and bearing in mind how Mrs O has changed her 
position since March 2020, I think its fair and reasonable to expect Shawbrook Bank to 
do what it told Mrs O it would do if, as is the case, its adviser (adviser A) had given her 
incorrect information.
So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect her to have to pay the 
difference between what she was asked to pay in March 2020 and what Shawbrook 
Bank now says it should have asked her to pay.
What needs to be done to put things right
Based on what Ive seen so far, I currently intend to require Shawbrook Bank to 
take the following action to put things right:
It should write off any residual balance on Mrs Os account and mark the 
account as settled and closed;
It should remove any adverse information (including any default) it has 
registered with credit reference agencies.
Shawbrook Bank has already paid Mrs O £100 for distress and inconvenience and its 
offered to pay her a further £20 because it didnt re-send a letter to her after telling her 
that it would. I think thats fair and reasonable. And, having considered everything, 
including what Mrs O has told us about the impact that Shawbrook Banks actions have had on her, I dont think it should be required to pay her anything further for trouble and 
upset shes been caused because of what happened.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited. In order to resolve the complaint, I intend to 
require it to:
write off any residual balance on Mrs Os account and mark the 
account as settled and closed; and
remove any adverse information (including any default) it has registered 
with credit reference agencies.
Mrs O accepted my provisional decision.
Shawbrook Bank also responded to my provisional decision. It said it had no further 
comments to make.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, I have not changed my view 
about how this complaint should be resolved. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I uphold this complaint and require Shawbrook Bank to take the actions set out in 
my provisional decision.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Shawbrook Bank Limited.
I now require it to:
write off any residual balance on Mrs Os account and mark the account as 
settled and closed; and
remove any adverse information (including any default) it has registered with 
credit reference agencies.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman