DRN-1791228
The complaint
Mr W complained that Swinton unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Swinton arranged a policy for Mr W. But after he had a minor accident which he reported to 
them, he discovered theyd cancelled his policy. This was because he hadnt disclosed a 
previous claim relating to his father, a named driver on the policy, and hadnt replied to 
Swintons letters about it. But he said he hadnt received those, and he was unhappy that he 
had been driving without insurance without knowing it.
 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Swinton had acted unfairly as they had acted in line with the policy and had given Mr W a 
reasonable opportunity to respond to their requests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Ws policy included his father as a named driver. Mr W doesnt dispute that when he 
applied for the policy hed been asked if any driver on the policy had any claims or losses 
within the last five years, and he hadnt declared his fathers previous incident. He also gave 
his parents address as his address.
  
Swinton discovered his fathers incident on the insurance claims database. They felt that Mr 
W had provided them with incorrect information.
Ive listened to the recording of a call Mr W made of a conversation he had with Swinton, 
after Swinton cancelled his policy. In the call Mr W said that hed asked his father about 
previous claims and his father hadnt told him anything, so he didnt think he could have 
done any more.  However, because this is information which is highly relevant for an insurer 
to assess risk, it does need to be provided and the responsibility for this falls on the 
policyholder. 
Mr W felt his fathers insurer had made a mistake in recording the incident and he wanted 
Swinton to resolve that. But Swinton said that was up to him and his father and it wouldnt 
change their position. And, as the investigator explained, Im only looking at Swintons 
actions here, not those of Mr Ws insurer or his fathers previous insurer. 
 
Mr W later said that this father had forgotten about the incident, as it was only a minor 
incident where no damage occurred and no one was hurt, and it wasnt his fathers fault. So 
he didnt report it, or alternatively he did report it but was told he didnt have to do anything 
else. 
Mr W didnt think his father should have an accident that wasnt his fault on his driving 
history. However, any claim, regardless of  fault, is relevant for an insurer to assess risk, and 
so we think its reasonable for them to ask about those.
  
The insurers policy terms say that the policy may be cancelled by Swinton if a policyholder  
provides incorrect information and fails to put this right when they are asked to. They may 
then cancel the policy by sending a seven-day written notice to his last known address. 
Swinton say they did that.
They said that when the insurance claims database showed a discrepancy with the 
information Mr W had given them, they wrote to him asking him to contact them to discuss 
that and provide proof of his no claims bonus (NCB). When he didnt reply to that they sent 
another letter warning about cancellation. And when he didnt reply to that ,they cancelled 
his policy. They also wrote to him afterwards confirming that his policy was cancelled, and 
theyd refund him the premium balance. Swinton have shown us copies of these letters in 
their records and theres no reason to think they werent sent. 
But Mr W said he hadnt heard anything from them about the cancellation -  he hadnt 
received any letters and had only received emails about his proof of his NCB. He felt that 
they should have emailed him about the cancellation as that was his preferred method of 
contact. Swinton agreed that email was his preferred method of contact, and that they had 
emailed him, including to tell him that his policy documents were on their online portal. They 
had emphasised that it was important for him to check the documents to make sure 
everything was correct . 
But they said that the policy required them to send cancellation letters by post, and theyd 
done that. And theyd had no reason to think he was not at the address hed given them.
 
Mr W said in his phone call that this address was his parents address but that he didnt live 
there. He lived and worked away for most of the year at different places on sites which didnt 
have postal addresses. As he could not receive mail there, he gave his parents address 
instead. He said he used that as his correspondence address, and he didnt think it should 
matter if that wasnt the address where he kept his car. He also said in his call that he was 
not in contact with his parents.
 
But Swinton said they no reason to know any of this. They thought that he shouldnt have 
given that address when he knew he was not going to be there. It meant hed also given 
incorrect information about where his car would be kept overnight, and this was another 
matter they used to assess risk.  They were not suggesting that Mr W had attempted to 
obtain insurance at a cheaper rate by saying that he was based at his parents address. But 
he had arranged it knowing that he didnt keep his car at that address and failed to tell them  
otherwise. Swinton said that if Mr W had told them about his actual living arrangements, they 
might have been able to help. But he didnt do that. And as theyd sent him letters to the 
address hed given them it was not their fault if he hadnt received them.
 
Having listed to his phone call, I think that was the first time Mr W told them that the address 
he gave wasnt his address for the majority of year because he worked away. And so theres 
nothing to show that before Swinton cancelled his policy, that they knew he wouldnt be at 
that address and so would not receive letters sent there.
I do see that Mr W is surprised and worried that Swinton cancelled his policy and that he 
was driving without insurance. But I dont think that Swinton acted unfairly. They notified him 
about cancellation in line with the policy terms , using information hed given them, and they 
gave him a reasonable time to respond. This means that I dont think theyve done anything 
wrong and I dont require them to do anything else.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
