DRN-2876325
The complaint
Miss M complains Nationwide Building Society wont refund money she transferred to a 
fraudster.
What happened
Miss M was hoping to enrol in a masters degree. In order to fund her studies, she required a 
loan. Miss M had previously been turned down for borrowing from high street lenders and, 
after looking online, it appeared shed only be eligible for loans with very high interest rates. 
On 11 August 2020 she received a call from someone claiming to represent a genuine 
lender. Unfortunately for Miss M, the caller was actually a fraudster. Miss M recalls that she 
could hear background noise, as if the call was coming from a call centre and that the caller 
sounded professional.
The caller offered her a £5,000 loan with repayments over two to three years. She doesnt 
recall being told what the interest rate was but remembers working out that it was a lot lower 
than the loans shed seen online. The fraudster asked her for a few personal details in order 
to complete the application  such as her postcode and date of birth and said shed be 
required to pay a deposit of £120 upfront.
Miss M made this payment online but further payment requests followed  with the fraudster 
using a popular messaging application to communicate with Miss M. After Miss M made the 
first payment the fraudsters sent her a loan agreement  a copy of which she no longer 
retains.
Later that day Miss M made a second payment of £285 which she was told was to cover 
taxes. Her first attempt at this payment was returned, so the fraudsters gave her different 
account details to use. She doesnt recall asking or being told why the payment had been 
returned. Later still, she made a third and final payment of £215 which was to round up the 
amount of the loan so that a round figure could be sent to Miss M.
Miss M says that the fraudsters were in frequent contact through the messaging application 
and suggested that the loan would not go through unless she promptly made the requested 
payments.
After a fourth payment request Miss M became suspicious. She searched online and found 
the contact details of the real loan company. They confirmed that they hadnt offered her any 
loans and wouldnt ask for money upfront.
Miss M contacted Nationwide to report what had happened. It contacted the firm which 
received the money and they responded a couple of weeks later to say that no funds 
remained. 
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Nationwide say that Miss M 
should have carried out more checks on the recipient before making the payments  
implying that they believe she lacked a reasonable basis of belief in making the payments 
(an exception to reimbursement under the Code). It also thinks that Miss M ignored an 
effective warning when making the payment.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They agreed with Nationwide that Miss M 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment  pointing to the informal way 
that the scammers had contacted Miss M and the fact shed never provided her bank 
account details to them in order to receive a loan. 
Miss M said that shed been the victim of a scam and it wasnt fair that she should lose out. 
So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code
In this case, I think Nationwide has been able to establish that it may choose not to 
reimburse Miss M under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed 
exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the 
circumstances of this case, namely that Miss M lacked a reasonable basis for belief in 
making the payments.
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Miss Ms position. That said, I 
need to consider not just whether Miss M did believe what she was being told but whether it 
was reasonable for her to do so.
Its not clear how the fraudsters obtained Miss Ms details in order to call her that day  she 
denies having input them online during her searches. But theres no dispute that it was a 
cold call from a company which Miss M had no previous knowledge of or relationship with. 
So, Id reasonably expect Miss M to be a little cautious about the offer that they made. 
Miss M says shes only ever taken one loan out and that was using a high street loan shop. 
She recalls they didnt require an upfront payment and, presumably, it would have been 
necessary for her to complete paperwork. While I accept this was a loan taken out in a 
different setting, when a request for money followed without any agreement, application form 
or paper trail, I think Miss M ought to have been concerned about why the process was so 
different. And, while there are regulated firms which ask for upfront fees in order to broker 
loans, thats not what was happening here and Miss M says she is not aware of their 
existence. 
There were other reasons to be concerned too. Miss M has said that shed been turned 
down by mainstream lenders and that the loans she thinks she was eligible for when looking 
online all had very unattractive interest rates. So, I think she ought to have questioned why 
the caller was willing to lend to her at a reasonably attractive rate of interest when other 
lenders werent. 
And, although the fraudsters do appear to have put pressure on Miss M at points during that 
day, it strikes me that before she made the first payment there was no urgent reason for 
Miss M to go ahead (other than missing out on the loan). She had time to stop and think.
It seems to be a feature of scams of this nature that fraudsters take advantage of people 
who may have difficulty obtaining credit elsewhere  a factor which only adds to the malice of the fraudsters. But its also relevant when considering why Miss M went ahead and made 
these payments. She does not appear to have been able to obtain a comparable loan 
elsewhere and I think thats likely to have factored into her decision making, such that her 
decision was not based purely on a belief that the loan was genuine but also, at least in part, 
based on her hope that it was. That hope, I suspect, may have encouraged her to overlook 
some of the aspects of the interaction which ought to have caused her concern. 
So, Im persuaded that Miss M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making that first 
payment and, for reasons Ill go onto explain, I dont think anything that happened after that 
could have given her that belief in making subsequent payments either.
After the first payment the conversation continued over the messaging app. While not 
unheard of for a legitimate organisation to communicate in this way  Id expect this to take 
place alongside more formal communication  such as through email. I can also see why 
being provided with a loan agreement might have given Miss M some reassurance (even if 
this was provided over the messaging application) about the legitimacy of the caller. 
But then the caller asked for more money, seemingly without having previously disclosed 
this would be necessary to obtain the loan  first for taxes and finally to top the loan up to a 
round amount. Even if the provision of the loan agreement had provided some reassurance 
to Miss M, then these increasingly implausible requests for money ought to have caused her 
significant concern.  
Miss M clearly did grow suspicious of what she was being asked to do  she says thats 
what prompted her to search for the genuine loan company online before making the fourth 
payment. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I think if she wasnt actually concerned, 
she ought to have been before making each payment. And, I think its likely Miss M made 
the subsequent payments more in the hope that the loan would be granted and out of fear of 
losing the money shed already paid rather than a wholehearted belief the caller was 
genuine. 
So, I dont think Miss M had a reasonable basis for belief in making any of the payments. 
Should Nationwide have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss M? 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss M made this payment, Nationwide should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Though Miss M made several payments that day, they were all fairly unremarkable in terms 
of the amount and I think they would have given little indication that Miss M was at risk of 
financial harm. So, I dont think Nationwide were obliged to provide an Effective Warning 
under the CRM Code and neither do I think they acted unfairly by allowing the payments to 
proceed. 
Nationwide also tried to recover the funds from the firm which received them. That firm has 
provided evidence to our service which shows that each payment was removed within a few 
minutes of crediting the account and before Miss M reported the scam to Nationwide. 
Consequently, Im persuaded that no action by Nationwide could have led to the recovery of Miss Ms funds.
Im satisfied that Nationwide havent made an error by declining to refund Miss M under the 
CRM Code, processed the payment correctly and did everything it ought reasonably to have 
done once it was aware of the fraud. So, I cant say that Nationwide is responsible for Miss 
Ms loss. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Miss M and that she feels strongly about the way 
Nationwide spoke to her in the wake of the scam. Theres no dispute here that shes been 
the victim and Id expect her to be treated sympathetically by Nationwide. Its also not my 
intention to make her feel any worse about what happened. I hope that she will understand 
the reasons why Ive reached this decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman