DRN-2157505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK PLC (Santander) blocked and closed their
account in error then failed to correctly reinstate it, which caused payments to fail.
Mr and Mrs M are bringing this complaint on behalf of their business, T Limited.
What happened
On 24 May 2019 Santander blocked Mr and Mrs Ms account, noting that the company was
due to be dissolved. When Mr M contacted Santander to challenge the block, it realised it
had confused Mr and Mrs Ms company with an unconnected company of a similar name.
Santander lifted the block and returned the account to its correct status. But then closed the
account on 25 June 2019, for the same reasons it had blocked it.
Mr and Mrs Ms account remained blocked until 1 July 2019, when Santander again 
reinstated it. But Santander neglected to reinstate Mr and Mrs Ms direct debits and cheque
book. Mr and Mrs M discovered this in August 2019, when a cheque to a client for £5,000
and a direct debit to pay its Council Tax bill were returned unpaid.
Santander apologised at each step and paid Mr and Mrs M a total of £600 in compensation.
But after the failed payments in August, Mr and Mrs M decided to end their long-standing
relationship with Santander, and closed their account.
Mr and Mrs M also complained, saying the errors had caused them frustration and had
meant Mr M had to spend time complaining to Santander on the phone and in branch, in
order to get the issues resolved. Mr M said this was time he could have spent earning
money for his company, and that the failed payments had caused embarrassment and
reputational damage.
Santander apologised, but felt it had done enough to put Mr and Mrs Ms complaint right, by
paying them £600. Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and agreed Santanders failings had caused Mr and
Mrs M trouble and upset. 
She discussed the impact of Santanders errors with Mr M, and thought about what it should 
have to do to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Mr M said he felt £2,500 would fairly  
represent the harm caused, but our investigator felt that Santanders compensation was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, so she didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
In August 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Its not in doubt that Santander made mistakes here. It made clerical errors that caused Mr 
and Mrs Ms account to be blocked, then closed and finally resulted in payments out of the 
account failing. Santander has accepted it made mistakes, and the only area of 
disagreement is what it should have to do to compensate Mr and Mrs M.
When Mr M responded to our investigators opinion, he said she had got the information 
right, but felt the compensation didnt reflect the amount of time and frustration spent in 
dealing with the matter, including numerous phone calls and branch visits. He said hed 
spent time on the phone to clients to advise payments were delayed and had to deal with the 
returned payments.
Mr M also said the events caused damage to T Limiteds credibility and that he had to pay
people on T Limiteds behalf, from his savings.
Im grateful to Mr M for talking through the impact of the mistakes with our investigator, and
for taking the time to explain the damage caused in more detail. Our services approach to
matters like this is to put the customer (in this case, T Limited) back in the position they
would have been in, but for the businesss mistakes. While Mr M has said his business
suffered reputational damage, understandably, he hasnt been able to provide evidence of
losses suffered as a direct result, such as lost business. And without such evidence, I can't
reasonably ask Santander to pay compensation in this regard.
So instead, Ive thought about how Santander should compensate Mr and Mrs M in light of
what Mr M has told our service about the impact on T Limited. Having done so, Im sorry to
say I agree Santander has done enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
I should start by saying that because T Limited is a separate legal entity to Mr and Mrs M, I
can only make an award for inconvenience experienced by the company, and not Mr and
Mrs M personally. So, while I can compensate T Limited for the inconvenience of the time
one of its Directors spent away from the business, I cant compensate it for frustration Mr M
experienced personally in speaking to Santander.
Our website gives examples of awards we might make for trouble and upset experienced.
And my view is that Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances fall into the bottom of the substantial
category. There were three mistakes, but they were all resolved reasonably quickly, with
offers of compensation and Santander apologised each time, and offered a further apology
when it reviewed the complaint after our service got in touch.
I can take damage to reputation into account when I make awards, but I have to consider all
of the circumstances of the particular case. In this instance, I accept the failed cheque
payment of £5,000 would have caused some damage to T Limiteds credibility, and the same
applies for calls Mr M had to make to other clients. But I havent seen anything to persuade
me that T Limited suffered any lasting damage that would justify a payment beyond what
Santander has already offered.
I recognise what Mr M says about time spent in dealing with Santander, but I can see our
investigator has already factored that in and I agree the inconvenience caused to T Limited
by the time Mr M spent resolving matters wasnt sufficient to justify a higher award. If I were
able to take Mr and Mrs M's personal frustration into account, I may have suggested an
increased award. But for the reasons i've explained above, i'm not able to do so.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M hoped for. But I hope they wont feel hard done
by  while the amount Santander offered isnt what they were looking for, it does fall into
what our service considers to be a substantial payment. So I hope Mr and Mrs M can see
that Im not suggesting their experience was any less unpleasant and stressful than they
say.
All Im saying is that Santander has done what I would usually expect to see in order to put
matters right. And that Im not able to compensate T Limited for some of the matters Mr M
has understandably raised.I asked Mr and Mrs M and Santander to provide any further submissions or evidence by 28 
August 2020. Neither Mr and Mrs M, nor Santander responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs M, nor Santander made any further representations or offered any 
more evidence, my findings about this complaint havent changed. It follows that I dont 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman