DRN-3092552
The complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to inform him of their mortgage 
valuation policy for properties with large land acreage.
What happened
Mr P applied for a mortgage on a property purchase with Barclays, via his appointed broker. 
Mr P says despite Barclays knowing that the property sat on substantial acreage, he wasnt 
informed prior to its valuation, they would only base their valuation on up to a maximum of 
10 acres. Mr P says the effect of Barclays policy, meant the valuation was substantially 
reduced, affecting the amount he could borrow, and the mortgage interest rates they could 
offer him. Mr P says if he had been made aware of Barclays acreage policy prior to the 
valuation being instructed, he could have approached other lenders who would have lent, 
based on the full acreage of the property. As a result of Barclays actions, Mr P says given he 
had no other option, he had to take up Barclays revised mortgage offer at a higher interest 
rate. Mr P wants Barclays to offer him the interest rate he would have secured, had they 
valued the whole acreage of the property.
Barclays says it is their policy to lend based on valuations, including up to 10 acres of land 
nearest the dwelling. While Mr Ps property valuation meant he secured a less favourable 
mortgage interest rate product than he had expected, they had made no errors here.
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Barclays had only been made aware of the acreage of the property Mr P was 
purchasing, after the valuation report had been completed. The investigator says we cant 
tell Barclays they must disclose their lending policies in respect to their mortgage valuation 
criteria. The investigator didnt feel there was any evidence to say Barclays told Mr P, or his 
broker they would base their valuation on the full acreage of the property being purchased. 
The investigator says he couldnt hold Barclays at fault for the fact Mr P didnt have time to 
look elsewhere for another lender, as Mr P had already committed to the purchase, given he 
had exchanged contracts before the valuation had been instructed.
 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr P to learn the property 
he was purchasing had its valuation restricted by Barclays as they had only based their 
mortgage offer on part of the total land acreage, in line with their lending policy. This meant 
Mr P couldnt secure the interest rate product he had applied for and had no time to look for 
another lender, who may have considered the whole land acreage of the property.
What happened here is Mr P applied to Barclays, via his appointed broker, for a mortgage 
on a property which consisted of a dwelling and 40 acres of land attached. Mr P says 
Barclays informed his broker, on receipt of the property valuation it received, that it had 
fallen short of its expected valuation, in part because it was their policy to only allow the first 
10 acres of land closest to the main dwelling to form part of its valuation, for its mortgage 
purposes. As a result of this, the mortgage product he had applied for was no longer 
available as this mortgage product was restricted to 70% of the valuation of the property, 
which it no longer met. Mr P says he was left with no alternative but to take up another 
mortgage product with Barclays, at a higher interest rate.  
Mr Ps complaint centres around the fact Barclays were aware of the propertys acreage, he 
says he discussed this with them over a webchat and his broker also discussed the acreage 
with Barclays staff during the application process. In addition, Mr P says the property was 
already mortgaged to Barclays, by the vendor. Mr P feels Barclays knowing this, should 
have made him or his broker aware of their policy on restricting the land acreage they would 
value, before instructing the valuation. Mr P says this would have given him time to look 
elsewhere, as he believed other lenders would base their valuation on the full acreage of the 
property. Mr Ps feels Barclays should now offer him the rate of interest he would have 
secured, if the property had been valued with the full land acreage. 
I understand the points Mr P makes here, but when coming to a full and impartial decision, I 
can only consider the information made available to me. Mr P says he conducted a webchat 
online before he took out the Barclays mortgage, when he explained the details of the 
propertys land acreage to Barclays staff. Mr P hasnt provided this service with any 
supporting evidence of this webchat, so I cant say what might have been discussed here. 
Similarly, his Broker is unable to provide any evidence to show that he discussed the details 
of the property and its land acreage with Barclays staff by email or any other method, before 
the valuation was instructed. Its worth mentioning here, the application form I have seen, 
completed and sent to Barclays by Mr Ps broker, has no mention of the propertys acreage. 
Its reasonable to say, if the broker had discussed this with a member of staff at Barclays, 
given the significance of the value of land attaching to the dwelling here, I would have 
expected this to have been detailed on this mortgage application or by way of an 
accompanying email, but I cant see it has. It follows, and its reasonable to say, the 
mortgage application was made through Mr Ps broker without advice from Barclays.  
While Mr P may not agree, Im not convinced by his argument that the property was already 
mortgaged to Barclays, so they would have been aware of the property and its acreage. I 
say this because there is no evidence to suggest prior to the valuation being instructed, 
Barclays had been informed the vendor banked with them and its unreasonable to expect 
Barclays to check this given the number of mortgage customers it has  in any event an out 
of date mortgage valuation would have served little purpose to them. 
With this in mind, I am satisfied, on balance, Barclays were only made aware of the size of 
the acreage attaching to the property after they received the valuation. Here, the appointed 
property valuer based their valuation to include the first 10 acres closest to the dwelling, in 
line with Barclays policy. Mr P says the reduced valuation has meant he had to pay a higher 
interest rate on his mortgage with Barclays because he had no time to approach another 
lender, given he was under pressure to complete within a set time period. I understand what 
Mr P says here, but its fair to say he had committed to the purchase, having already 
exchanged contracts before receiving the mortgage offer from Barclays -  that was a choice 
Mr P took and I cant hold Barclays responsible for that. Its also worth saying, I have seen no evidence to suggest another lender would have valued 
the property any differently or provided a more competitive interest rate based on its 
valuation. I say this as while the reduced land acreage did form part of the reduced valuation 
here, there were other aspects of the valuation that affected it, and its not possible to know 
how other lenders may have viewed this. 
Mr P would like Barclays to publish the criteria for its land acreage lending policy on their 
website but its not my role to tell Barclays they must, if they dont feel its appropriate. 
Having considered everything here, on balance I am satisfied if Barclays had been told 
during the course of the mortgage application, the property consisted over 40 acres of land, 
they would have informed Mr P or his broker of their policy here. 
Barclays have suggested that Mr P could approach them to arrange a more in-depth 
specialised valuation, something they would have asked for if they had known the size of the 
acreage before the valuation was instructed. That said, Barclays have made clear this would 
be at Mr Ps cost, which may be prohibitively expensive. Mr P has already suggested that if 
he knew a more expensive valuation might have been required before, he would have 
looked elsewhere, so while this is potentially still an option to him, I accept its unlikely Mr P 
would wish to consider this.
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman