DRN-3638836
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) declined 
her pet insurance claim. 
Any reference to Red Sands Includes all its agents.
What happened
In August 2013, Ms I took out a pet insurance policy for her dog, who Ill refer to as O, and 
selected the Prime cover. The policy has been renewed annually since. The underwriter on 
the policy is Red Sands.
The policy is subject to an annual condition limit of £2,000, an annual policy limit of £7,000, 
an excess of £99 and a 20% co-payment due to Os age. There is also a policy limit of 365 
days for payments to be made from the date a condition is first manifested.
Unfortunately, O suffered a dog attack on 2 March 2019. He attended a veterinary practice 
on the same day and was treated for a shattered lower mandible (lower jaw). On 4 March 
2019, he was referred to a small animal hospital to be assessed further and surgery was 
then performed on 6 March 2019 on his mandible. Following surgery of the mandible, an 
ulcer was noted on Os left eye and a few days later in his right eye. On 14 March 2019, his 
left eye had ruptured and had to therefore be operated on. His right eye was also treated 
through medication. 
Ms I made a claim against her insurance policy for the treatment and surgery O had to have 
for the fracture and the ulcer in the eyes in March 2019.
Red Sands declined the claim as they said treatment and surgery for the eye was for a pre-
existing condition. They said Os vet notes of his medical history showed he had suffered the 
ulcer in the eye following the dog attack. Red Sands treated the claim as one condition, so it 
paid the claim up to the policy limit of £2,000 and declined subsequent claims as they were 
in relation to the same condition. 
Red Sands also confirmed to Ms I that it had placed an exclusion on the policy for all claims 
in respect of eyes and sight, anything to do with dog attack that occurred on 2 March 2019 
and claims in respect to the mandible/jaw. The exclusion was placed with effect from 22 
August 2019.
Unhappy with Red Sands response, Ms I brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint as he said the vets review of the claim said the eye ulcer 
was a separate condition to the injuries sustained from the dog attack. He asked Red Sands 
to assess the claim for eye ulcers separately to the dog attack. He also said that Red Sands 
should re-calculate the co-payment and excess based on the original claim amount so that 
Miss I can claim the full £2,000 and, pay the difference to Ms I with 8% simple interest from 
the date of the original claim to the date payment is made.
Red Sands responded and didnt agree to recalculating the claim but agreed to treat the eye 
ulcer for this occasion as a separate condition. However, it pointed out that based on past 
medical history, O had suffered from an eye ulcer on 23 April 2018 and in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions, payment of claims was limited to 365 days from the date the 
condition first manifested. So, any cover for eye ulcers expired on 22 April 2019 and 
treatment past this date would have no cover under the policy.
A second investigator looked into the complaint and partially upheld the complaint. He 
reviewed whats been said before and thought it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to 
re-calculate the claim, so Ms I received the maximum benefit allowed under the policy. And, 
because the way the policy is worded, it would have been reasonable for her to expect to 
receive cover of up to a maximum of £2,000 per condition. He also said he agreed that there 
was no cover for the eye ulcers under the terms and conditions of Ms Is policy. 
Red Sands agreed to re-calculate the claim and continued to decline the eye ulcer element 
of the claim.
Ms I disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Red Sands has agreed to re-calculate the co-payment and excess based on the original 
claim amount so that Ms I can claim the full £2,000. It also agreed to pay 8% simple interest 
per annum on the difference between the original and revised settlement amounts for this 
claim. Theyve agreed to calculate this from the date of the claim to the date of the re-
calculated settlement. As this part of the complaint has been agreed and theres therefore no 
longer a dispute, Ive only covered this below in terms of what Red Sands needs to do to put 
this right.
I will go on to consider whether the claim has been declined fairly and reasonably for the eye 
ulcers and whether thats in line with Ms Is policy terms and conditions. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Ms Is policy as this forms the basis of 
the insurance contract with Red Sands.
Page 4 of the policy booklet provides a summary of what is covered for claims relating to vet 
fees. This says:
Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the date of occurrence, up to the 
amount specified in your policy limit.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) also confirms that there are restrictions 
to the cover available. On page 1, this says there is a:
365 day limit per condition, illness or accident.I can see that Red Sands has said cover was available from 23 April 2018 until 22 April 2019 
(for 365 days) for the claim for the eye ulcers to be covered. Part of the claim was paid by 
Red Sands in relation to claims following the dog attack and included eye ulcers. Having 
looked at Os medical history, this shows that he attended his vet on 23 April 2018 due to 
suffering from an eye ulcer. The notes on 27 April 2018 say O had an ulcer on the left eye 
due to a cat scratch and medication was given. And on 30 April 2018, the eyelids were 
checked and O still blepharospasm but can find no sign of cause. 
Based on the above terms and conditions, cover per condition is provided for up to 365 days 
only from the date the condition occurred which means any claims following April 2019 are 
not covered for eye ulcers. And those claims are also subject to the policy limit. 
The notes provided of Os medical history confirm O was treated for an eye ulcer in April 
2018 and, because theres a policy limit on the number of days that cover is available for this 
same condition, this limit has now expired. With that in mind, I dont think cover is available 
for the treatment of eye ulcers under the policy due to the condition first being manifested in 
April 2018. While Red Sands agreed the treatment for eye ulcer would be considered as a 
separate condition, theres 365-day limit on that condition for claims to be paid from when it 
first manifested.
I understand that Ms I will be disappointed. But overall, Im satisfied the claim for eye ulcers 
isnt covered under the policy terms and conditions and that Red Sands hasnt declined the 
claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must do the following to put things right for Ms I in regard to calculating the claim 
payments:
Re-calculate Miss Is claim settlement for the costs relating to Os dog attack.
Add 8% simple interest* per annum on the difference between the original and 
revised settlement amounts for this claim. This should be calculated from the date of 
the claim to the date of the re-calculated settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms I how much its taken off. 
It should also give Ms I a tax deduction certificate if she for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Ms Is claim against Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman