DRN-3164402
The complaint and background
Ms W has complained about how Lloyds Bank PLC has responded to her financial 
difficulties. Ms W says that she has experienced financial difficulties for many years, 
exacerbated by the charges Lloyds has added to her account, and thinks Lloyds was 
irresponsible to give her an overdraft facility given her financial circumstances at the time. 
More specifically, she says that she contacted Lloyds in November 2016 to ask for help, and 
was told that her account would be closed and the debt moved to the banks recoveries 
department where it would be written off after six months. Ms W is unhappy that she has 
since discovered the debt was not written off and was instead sold to a debt collection 
agency. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Ws complaint. She felt that Lloyds should have seen 
that Ms W was struggling with her account by October 2013, and so recommended that 
Lloyds refund all the charges and interest applied from that point onwards. In addition, the 
adjudicator recommended that any default be backdated to October 2013. She also 
explained that any complaint about the overdraft facility being agreed had been made too 
late.
Lloyds agreed to make an offer to Ms W in line with what the adjudicator had recommended, 
but Ms W remained unhappy. She wanted any remedy to recognise that she had been 
asking Lloyds for help for many years and that she had initially complained about the 
charges in 2016. The adjudicator explained that as there was no record of Lloyds receiving a 
complaint prior to 2019 we would not be able to consider any charges incurred prior to 2013, 
or look at whether Lloyds acted irresponsibly in giving Ms W an overdraft facility as that also 
took place more than 6 years ago. 
Ms W remained unhappy, so her complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to 
put things right is a fair resolution to this complaint. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
Ms W has said that she thinks we should look at how Lloyds has handled her financial 
difficulties as far back as 2008, but the rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt 
agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after whats being complained 
about happened, or if later, more than three years after the complainant knew, or should 
reasonably have known, that they had reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R which can be found online.
Ms W says that she complained in 2016  and has provided copies of letters she sent at that 
time - and that she had also raised concerns with Lloyds before that date. But the rules say 
the time limits will only have been complied with if the complainant made their complaint to 
the business or the ombudsman within that period and has written acknowledgment or some 
other record of the complaint having been received.
Looking at Lloyds and Ms Ws records, there is no clear evidence that Lloyds received her 
complaint about the charges in 2016 or at any earlier date. The first complaint that is 
recorded is the one she made in October 2019, so Im satisfied that I can only look at events 
from October 2013 onwards.
I agree with our adjudicator that Lloyds should have identified by October 2013 that Ms W 
was unlikely to be able to repay the overdrawn balance of her account within a reasonable 
period of time, given that she had been in hardcore borrowing for an extended period of 
time. But as Lloyds has now agreed to refund all the charges and interest applied after that 
date, and to backdate the default of the account to the same date  essentially resulting in 
the removal of the default from Ms Ws credit file  Im satisfied that Lloyds has now offered 
to do what is necessary to put things right.
I understand that Ms W may have thought the debt was going to be written off, but there is 
no clear evidence to show that is what she was told. And even if there was proof she was 
given incorrect information at the time, the remedy for that would not be for the debt to be 
written off now.
Lloyds has confirmed that it is now recalling the debt from the collection agency it had been 
sold to, and Ms W will need to contact Lloyds directly to agree an affordable repayment plan 
for the remaining outstanding balance.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms W. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ws complaint, but am satisfied that Lloyds 
Bank PLC has already agreed to do what it needs to do to put things right, and so I wont be 
requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman