DRN-4160540
The complaint
Mr B complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) for issues he 
experienced in contacting them, and in their decision to decline his home emergency claim. 
He wants RSA to increase its offer of compensation. 
What happened
Mr B owns a rental property which he lets to tenants. He insures that property with RSA and 
has home emergency cover. 
In November 2022, Mr Bs tenant alerted him to a leak in the property, coming from an 
upstairs radiator. 
Mr B tried to contact RSA to lodge a claim but was unable to get through for a long period. 
He received recorded messages telling him that the wait times were short and then waited 
much longer. 
When Mr B finally got through to an agent, he lodged his claim and asked for an engineer to 
attend the property as soon as possible. 
RSA declined his claim on the basis of an exclusion. He requested call backs but these were 
not made. 
Mr B had to engage a private engineer to fix the leak, at a cost of around £380. 
Mr B submitted a complaint to RSA. 
RSA accepted that he had experienced delays in contact and accepted that it ought not to 
have declined the claim. RSA agreed to reimburse Mr B the cost of his private engineer and 
it paid this in December 2022. RSA also offered Mr B £120 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience. 
Mr B was not happy with this and contacted us. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and did not recommend that RSA do anything 
more, on the basis that the offer of reimbursement and £120 compensation was in line with 
what we would ask businesses to do in similar circumstances. 
Mr B did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
Since that time, RSA has sent its final response and increased its offer of compensation to 
£200. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute in this matter that RSA was wrong to decline the claim, and that it did not 
provide a good customer service in terms of contact and returning Mr Bs calls. RSA 
acknowledged this promptly and reimbursed the costs of Mr Bs private engineer. 
Mr Bs remaining issue is about the level of compensation offered by RSA and whether this 
is reasonable. 
I have borne in mind that Mr B does not live in the property, but that he has described the 
effects on him as being seriously inconvenienced in having to arrange a repair privately, and 
that his tenant has added to his stress. 
I have also considered that Mr B is a landlord and so some inconvenience is to be expected 
from issues arising at his property. He can reasonably expect RSA to respond to those 
issues, but there would always be some inconvenience caused by a leak arising at all. 
I have also considered that in this matter RSA responded and acknowledged its mistake 
quickly, and reimbursed Mr B swiftly, preventing him from being out of pocket for very long. It 
made an offer of compensation shortly after the event and has increased this later. 
In my view, the initial offer of £120 was in line with awards we would make in similar 
circumstances, and I agree with my colleague that we would not usually ask RSA to increase 
this. 
RSA has chosen to increase its offer of compensation which is, Im sure, welcomed by Mr B 
and I am satisfied that RSA has responded to what went wrong promptly and reasonably. 
As a result, I agree with my colleague, and I do not ask RSA to do anything further. 
I understand that Mr B considers that RSA should pay more compensation to him, but I have 
not seen evidence that this is warranted. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman