DRN-4062261
The complaint
Mrs T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly by increasing her 
overdraft limit when she was in financial difficulty. She is also unhappy that HSBC continued 
to allowed her to spend on her overdraft after shed made it aware of her circumstances and 
financial difficulties in September 2019. 
What happened
Mrs T held an account with an overdraft facility with HSBC. In October 2016 Mrs Ts 
overdraft limit was increased to £4,700 and in December it was increased to £4,950. 
In September 2019 Mrs T informed HSBC of her financial difficulties and that she had made 
if aware that she suffered from mental health conditions and that she had a problem with 
spending.
In response to this HSBC stopped all interest and charges on Mrs Ts overdraft and set Mrs 
T up with a basic bank account. HSBC offered Mrs T a loan at 0% interest to pay back her 
overdraft which Mrs T declined and her overdraft account was left open in order that she 
could repay the overdraft.
Mrs T started to make payments on her overdraft but on discovering she was able to transfer 
funds from her overdraft to her new basic account she continued spending and once again 
found herself at the top of her overdraft limit.
Mrs T complained to HSBC about this. HSBC then inhibited Mrs Ts account so she could no 
longer access the account or transfer funds. It acknowledged it could have done more to 
support Mrs T and compensated her £300 for the distress and inconvenience.
Mrs T was dissatisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs Ts complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that HSBC 
shouldnt have approved the overdraft limit increase to £4,700 in October 2016 as they didnt 
think her monthly salary of around £1,200 supported this level of borrowing and that her 
bank statements show that before this limit increase, shed already appeared to be 
struggling to manage her existing limit. 
HSBC disagreed. It says at the time of the increase there was a low percentage of 
unarranged overdraft usage, the account was receiving regular credits and that gambling 
utilisation as a percentage of credit turnover was low.
Mrs T wants a review of the account for the five years before her limit was increased and 
wants the debt written off. So the complaint has been progressed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Why I can only look at Mrs Ts overdraft from August 2016
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
And in this case HSBC hasnt provided consent. Mrs Ts complaint was made in August 
2022 in relation to her overdraft dating back to 2011. Six years before she raised her 
complaint is August 2016. So under the six year rule we can only look at increases in her 
overdraft limit and the charges applied  the events complained about  from August 2016. 
So I need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mrs T 
should reasonably have been aware she had cause to complain. 
I can see that Mrs T contacted HSBC in September 2019 about suffering financial difficulties. 
Following this contact, Mrs T was offered a loan to repay her overdraft and it stopped 
applying overdraft interest on her account. So I think Mrs T ought to have known enough 
when she made contact with Lloyds whether her overdraft was affordable for her and that 
HSBC did something wrong by increasing her limit over the years. I think Mrs T should 
reasonably have been aware she had reason to complain about the affordability of her 
overdraft at this time.
Three years from this is September 2022. As this doesnt provide with Mrs T with a longer 
period of time to complain about the affordability of her overdraft and the charges applied it 
means we can only look at the affordability of Mrs Ts overdraft from August 2016 (6 years 
prior to Mrs T raising her complaint). 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from 19 October 2016 when Mrs 
Ts limit was increased.  By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs T was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, HSBC ought to have realised that Mrs Ts use of her overdraft was 
unsustainable. Mrs Ts statements show that she was consistently overdrawn and near the 
top of her limit. Although regular credits were paid into her account that may have reduced 
her overdraft balance, due to constant spending she got further into her overdraft, and it was 
not reducing. In November 2015 Mrs Ts account was £2,000 in debit and this crept up to 
£3,000 by February 2016 and £4,000 by July 2016.  
I accept that a lot of the transactions on Mrs Ts account were discretionary, non-committed 
transactions. But this doesnt mean that HSBC should continue to allow the use of what 
should be short term lending to continue with no apparent review.  HSBC ought to have 
realised that Mrs T was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what she owed and 
shouldnt have increased her overdraft limit further. So I think if HSBC had done a review of Mrs Ts statements it wouldve realised Mrs T wasnt 
using the overdraft as intended. HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mrs T with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft. 
Mrs T ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I currently think that 
HSBC didnt treat Mrs T fairly and she lost out because of what HSBC did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Mrs T is also unhappy that HSBC failed to inhibit her account when it was aware of her 
circumstances and this resulted in her continuing to spend. HSBC have acknowledged that it 
couldve done more to support her following the contact she had with it in September 2019 
and have now inhibited her account and compensated her £300 reducing the balance of her 
overdraft. 
I agree that HSBC shouldve inhibited Mrs Ts account when she contacted it in September 
2019. But sometimes mistakes do happen. HSBC have compensated Mrs T for this by 
reducing her balance by £300 which I think is fair in the circumstances. Throughout this 
period HSBC wasnt charging for the use of the overdraft facility and I think Mrs Ts has to 
take some responsibility for her actions  rather than take advantage of something that 
clearly wasnt intended. 
Mrs T is now left with an overdraft balance and is unhappy with this. But what she has been 
left with are the funds which she used and benefitted from, and I dont agree that she 
shouldnt have to pay this back and Im not persuaded anymore compensation is warranted 
here.
But I do think that HSBC shouldnt have agreed to increase Mrs Ts overdraft limit in October 
2016 and instead shouldve stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and that it 
should put things right as outlined below. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ts complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ts current overdraft balance so that any additional interest, fees 
and charges applied as a result of the overdraft limit increases from October 
2016 onwards are removed. This means that from October 2016 onwards, 
interest can only be charged on the limit before this of any overdrawn balance. 
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs T to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mrs T is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mrs Ts credit file, HSBC should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in October 2016. 
HSBC can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mrs T over her limit.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs T along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ts credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ts complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc, and 
direct it pay the fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman