DRN-3161725
The complaint
Ms A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined her travel insurance claim.
What happened
In February 2020 Ms A bought an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, which was 
insured by Great Lakes. Ms A subsequently booked a trip abroad, including flights and 
accommodation, departing on 12 July 2020. 
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 23 March 2020 the FCDO instructed all UK 
citizens travelling abroad to return home. The UK government also announced wide-ranging 
restrictions on movement, including an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list 
of essential reasons.
In addition, around the same time, the government of the country she was due to visit 
restricted travellers from entering if they came from the UK. This restriction was lifted in mid-
July 2020 but was still in force on Ms As intended date of departure. Even after this had 
been restricted, the foreign government required all visitors from the UK to quarantine for 14 
days upon arrival into that country. 
As a result of the travel restrictions in force at the time, Ms A cancelled her trip. She was 
able to recover her accommodation costs, by deferring the trip to a later date. However, she 
was unable to obtain a refund for her airline tickets as the flights still took place. Ms A made 
a claim to Great Lakes for this cost.
Great Lakes declined the claim. It said that the reason for cancellation was not one of the 
specific reasons listed as covered under the policy terms and conditions. Great Lakes also 
said there was an exclusion relating to claims arising from the prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country which would apply.
Unhappy with this response, Ms A complained to Great Lakes and then brought the matter 
to our service. An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think that Great Lakes had 
acted unreasonably by declining the claim. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy Ms A held includes terms and conditions relating to the cover provided. On page 
24 of the policy, under the heading Section A  Cancellation or Curtailment, the policy says 
that Great Lakes will pay for certain costs if a trip is cancelled for any of the following 
reasons:
Unforeseen illness, injury or death of You, a Close Relative or any person with 
whom You have arranged to travel or stay during the Trip.
You abandoning Your Trip following the cancellation of or a delay of more than 12 
hours in the departure of Your outward international flight, sea-crossing, coach or 
train journey, forming part of the booked Trips itinerary, as a result of Strike or 
Industrial Action (of which You were unaware at the time You either booked the Trip 
or purchased this policy, whichever is the latest), adverse weather conditions, or the 
mechanical breakdown of, or accident of, the aircraft, sea vessel, coach or train.
You or any person with whom You plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or 
being subpoenaed as a witness in a court of law (other than in a professional or 
advisory capacity).
If You are made redundant and You qualify for redundancy payment under current 
legislation.
Your Home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if Your presence is required by the Police in connection with such events), 
up to 7 days before the commencement of Your Trip.
Your compulsory quarantine. 
You or Your travelling companion having agreed leave subsequently cancelled by the 
emergency services or armed forces, for operational reasons. This cover does not 
apply to cancellation of leave due to war, invasion, acts of terrorism, hostilities 
(whether war be declared or not), civil unrest, revolution, rebellion, act of foreign 
enemy or any similar event.
The reason for Ms A cancelling her trip does not fall within any of the covered reasons listed 
above. So, this means her claim isnt covered under the policy terms and conditions.
Having looked at the remainder of the policy, it doesnt appear that Ms A held any cover 
which would pay a claim for the circumstances she found herself in. 
On page 49, the policy terms say, under the heading General Exclusions Applying
To Your Policy:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
22. Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to
which the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice)
or the World Health Organisation (www.who.int) has advised the public not to travel.
In addition to the policy terms, Great Lakes provided Ms A with an Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) designed to provide a summary of the cover.On page one of the IPID it includes a section titled Are there any restrictions on cover? and 
within this section it states:
! There is no cover to travel to a country or region where the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against travel.
Ms A has said that she doesnt think it is fair that the policy in effect didnt cover her for 
cancellation due to FCDO advice, nor did it cover her if she did travel. There are some 
limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a 
policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for travelling against 
FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of 
the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain 
why.
This is because Ms As policy also says, at page 26 under the cancellation and curtailment 
heading:
What is not covered:
o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment 
of the booked Trip due to government action;
As I understand it, the government of the country Ms A was due to visit had placed strict 
border restrictions on individuals coming from the UK. This was initially an outright ban, but 
this was then reduced to a forced quarantine around the middle of July 2020. I think its fair 
to consider such restrictions as prohibitive regulations.
It is difficult to say, with any clear certainty, whether there was one specific reason which 
caused Ms A to cancel her trip. It would seem more likely to me that it was a combination of 
several factors  the FCDO advice, the restrictions put in place by the governments both in 
the UK and abroad, and the spread of Covid-19 - that all had an impact in some degree on 
the cancellation. 
What this does mean is that not only is the reason for cancelling not listed as one of the 
insured events under the policy, I think the exclusion relating to prohibitive regulations would 
also apply when considering the circumstances of the claim.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Ms As claim is covered under the policy terms 
and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
Great Lakes to accept her claim.
My final decision
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms A, my decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman