DRN-3372313
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society closed his account and didnt send him
statements when requested.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this case. I planned to come to a different outcome to our 
investigator, so I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with any additional 
information they wanted me to consider before I came to my final decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which forms part of this final decision.
Mr H had a number of calls with staff at Nationwide in relation to a current account he held
with them. Nationwide say that Mr H was abusive during these calls and so it wrote to him on
10 March 2021 and let him know it would be closing his account on 9 April 2021.
Mr H was unhappy with this and said that he didnt have enough time to open a new account
because he didnt have a passport. He also didnt think that Nationwide had taken his
disability into account when coming to its decision.
Nationwide responded to Mr Hs complaint to say that the decision to close his account was
fair. It said that Mr H had been abusive towards its staff and it referred to the terms and
conditions of the account which state that it can close an account in these circumstances.
Nationwide gave Mr H a further extension on the closure of the account to 26 April 2021.
Mr H says that Nationwide has breached data security by recording his calls.
He also complains that Nationwide didnt send him statements when he requested them. He
says that this has caused him to lose out on getting a car.
Our investigator looked into to things for Mr H. He didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly
when it closed Mr Hs account. He explained that Nationwide would normally send call
recordings to this service when investigating a complaint. And he explained that he hadnt
seen any evidence that Mr H requested statements on the dates hed said he had, and so he
didnt think he could fairly say that Nationwide had done anything wrong.
In addition to the above, Mr H says that he was harassed by Nationwide when it called him
numerous times to discuss the account. Our investigator agreed with Mr H here and thought
Nationwide ought to compensate Mr H £100. Mr H responded on this point to say the
compensation wasnt enough and that he was going to take the matter to court. So asked for
this service to not look into this part of his complaint. Because of this, I wont be making any
findings on this point.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view and because of this, the complaint has been
passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, it is my current intention
to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Its probably worth starting off by explaining that this service is separate to the courts. Were
an informal dispute resolution service and we look at what is considered to be fair and
reasonable, while taking into account any of the relevant laws and guidelines. Im not able to
find that Nationwide has acted unlawfully as Mr H has suggested.
Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided by both parties, in reaching
my provisional decision. Mr H has sent this service a lot of information for me to consider
during the course of this complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this
provisional decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to
the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr H, but merely to reflect
my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont
think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised
unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The complaint Mr H initially brought to this service was about the closure of his account. He
has since complained about how Nationwide have used call recordings and that it didnt
send him his statements.
Account closure
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that applied to Mr Hs account. They say:
We may close your account immediately and without notice in exceptional circumstances.
These might include:.
d) you have been threatening or abusive towards our staff;
Nationwide has sent this service copies of call recordings and reports from its staff members
who spoke to Mr H. Based on these, I can understand why Nationwide took the decision to
close Mr Hs account. The terms and conditions confirm that it could do this with immediate
effect, however, I have seen that Nationwide initially gave Mr H until 9 April 2021 to find a
new banking facility.
I have also seen that Nationwide extended the account closure to 26 April 2021 after it found
that Mr H was having difficulty in opening a new account.
Based on the above, I cant fairly say that Nationwide did anything wrong when it closed Mr
Hs account, and I think it provided him with more time than it was required to, to find a new
banking facility.
Ive taken on board Mr Hs comments in that it didnt give him the opportunity to find
representation to dispute the matter. But Nationwide didnt need to do this. And Im satisfied
that Mr Hs actions on the phone were enough for it to make this decision.
Statements
Nationwide has sent me a copy of a call recording from 11 May 2021. I can hear that Mr H
requested statements and based on the conversation he had with the representative; it
seems as though he had already requested these previously, but he still hadnt received
them. I havent seen any evidence to show that the statements were sent to Mr H until our
investigator asked Nationwide to do this. So, I think Nationwide could have done more to
help Mr H here.Mr H says that not getting the statements has led to him not being able to get a car. Our
investigator asked Mr H for evidence of this, but he hasnt provided us with anything.
Because of this, I cant fairly say that Mr H has lost out on a car as a result of Nationwide not
sending the statements to him. Even if Mr H did send this service evidence of losing out on
the car, it would be difficult for me to find that this was solely down to Nationwide not
providing the statements  and Id need clear information from the lender which said this. I
say that because I presume that Mr H would need to meet other eligibility requirements of
that lender in order to get the car, so it would be difficult for me to find that Nationwide were
wholly responsible for this without any clear evidence.
However, I do think Nationwide caused Mr H undue distress and inconvenience by not
sending statements to him in a timely manner  as it seems he had to chase them up. So, I
think Nationwide should pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for this.
Call recordings
I can see our investigator has already explained that hell need to contact the Information
Commissioners Office (ICO) if Mr H is unhappy that Nationwide forwarded call recordings to
this service or recorded the calls in the first instance. I wont be making a finding on this
point.
Nationwide responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings.
Mr H also responded. He didnt think the £100 I suggested was enough to compensate him 
for not getting his statements in a timely manner. He said that he didnt apply for the car 
because he couldnt get the statements and said he would be automatically declined on this 
basis. Mr H said that fair compensation would be £50 per week for taxi costs and he would 
like Nationwide to provide him with a hire car for the next two years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint, for 
much of the same reasons as outlined in my provisional decision.
Ive thought about Mr Hs comments in relation to the car he wanted to get, and that he says 
he didnt apply for the car because he didnt get statements from Nationwide. In order for me 
to be satisfied that Mr H incurred a direct loss of not getting the statements, Id need to at 
least have seen some evidence that Mr H wasnt able to get the car, which I havent.
Mr H says he made the decision not to apply for the car because he knew he would be 
declined because he didnt have statements. But given that Mr H didnt even attempt to 
apply, I dont think I can fairly say that Nationwide has caused Mr H a loss here. Its possible 
that had Mr H attempted an application, then the provider might have allowed him more time 
based on the difficulties he had in getting the statements from Nationwide. In any event, I 
cant compensate Mr H for something he made the choice not to go ahead with. 
So, based on everything Ive said. It is still my decision to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the 
delay in him getting the statements. And I still think £100 is appropriate for the 
inconvenience he incurred in getting the statements. Putting things right
Nationwide must pay Mr H £100 for the inconvenience caused to him by not providing his 
statements in a timely manner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Nationwide Building Society must 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman