DRN-4146421
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr C was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse. At the point of supply the van was around 7 months old and had covered 
around 2,200 miles.
In December 2022 Mr C experienced blue smoke coming out of the exhaust. The van was 
recovered to the supplying dealer who carried out a diagnostic and found that the oil level 
was too high and that fault codes showed the van had run on its own oil. The dealership 
advised Mr C that he would probably need a new engine.
Mr C raised a complaint with Black Horse asking it to repair or replace the van. Black Horse 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the supplying dealer had confirmed that the van had 
a 5 litre overfill of oil. It also said that Mr C had covered around 67,800 miles in the car since 
the point of supply which showed that the van was fit for purpose at the point of supply.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence to suggest that 
the problems with the car were present or developing when the car was supplied.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was still within the term of the finance agreement, and he 
thought the van should be fit for purpose throughout the agreement. He said hed spoken to 
a mechanic, and he believed that the problem was caused by a known fault with the injectors 
over fuelling and oil being sent into the engine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Supply of Goods Act 1973 is relevant to this complaint because Mr C entered into the 
hire purchase agreement for business purposes. The amount of credit provided was less 
than £25,000 so Im satisfied that the agreement was a regulated agreement.
The Supply of Goods Act implies a term into the agreement that the van is of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. A van is of satisfactory quality if it is of a standard that a reasonable 
person would regards as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid.
The van was relatively new when it was supplied so whilst Id expect it to have some wear 
and tear, Id also expect it to be fault free for a reasonable period of time.
Ive looked at the available evidence about the problems Mr C experienced with the van. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault. I say this because the information 
from the supplying dealership states that the oil level was too high, and 5 litres had to be 
removed before the van would start. The diagnostic test showed fault codes which 
suggested that the van had run on its own oil.
Ive gone on to consider whether the van was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive reviewed the MOT and service history. I havent seen anything in that information to 
suggest that there were problems with the van until the service which was carried out in 
August 2022. At that service it was noted that an engine warning light was displayed which 
would require further investigation. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr C took steps 
to have this investigated further. The problem with the blue smoke coming out of the exhaust 
occurred around 4 months after later.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account here. The van was around 7 months 
old when it was supplied to Mr C and had covered around 2,200 miles. At the time when Mr 
C experienced problems with the blue smoke, the van had covered around 65,600 miles. I 
think this is relevant, because if there had been a fault with the engine or the oil at the point 
of supply, I dont think Mr C would have been able to drive the car for around 4  years and 
cover around 65,000 miles. I think the fault would have presented itself well before this time 
and mileage had elapsed. This suggests that the van was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Mr C has said that he thinks the van should remain of satisfactory quality for the duration of 
the finance agreement. However, as Ive explained, this isnt what the relevant legislation 
says. The legislation says that the van must be of satisfactory quality when it is supplied. Its 
reasonable to expect that the van would suffer wear and tear and require repairs and 
maintenance as it gets older. 
Mr C has also said that he believed the van has a known fault with the injectors. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that theres a fault with the injectors. The information from the 
supplying dealership who looked at the van suggests that the problem has been caused by 
an overfill of oil.
Taking all the available evidence into consideration, Im not persuaded that there is any 
evidence to suggest that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Therefore, I wont be asking Black Horse to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman