DRN-3691290
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled his 
attempt to recover money he paid for a hotel stay that didnt go ahead.
What happened
Mr M paid for two nights accommodation at a hotel in the UK, which Ill refer to as H. He 
paid a booking agent, E, the full amount of £150.38 using his JLFS credit card. He was due 
to stay at the hotel from 7 April 2020. 
The UK went into a full lockdown on 23 March 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. As 
a result of this, Mr M contacted H a couple of days later to ask for a full refund of his 
booking. H responded and said that Mr Ms booking was non-refundable. They did explain 
that they were extending the option for Mr M to stay with them until the end of 
December 2020 and said he would need to make any changes to arrangements through E. 
Mr M explained to H that he wouldnt be making alternative arrangements to stay there and, 
as his booking could not be fulfilled, he wanted a full refund. H didnt provide Mr M with a 
refund and told him he would need to speak to E to arrange the cancellation of his booking. 
Mr M has said he tried to speak to E, but never received any response from them. 
Because of the difficulties he was facing in getting his money back, Mr M completed a 
dispute transaction form for JLFS in early April 2020 and asked for their help. For the next 
six weeks there were numerous messages from Mr M to JLFS as he was unhappy with the 
length of time it was taking for him to get his refund. JLFS apologised and explained they 
were experiencing a significant increase in claims because of the pandemic and they were 
working through them in date order.
JLFS requested some additional information from Mr M at the end of May 2020, which he 
provided promptly. Mr M continued to contact JLFS during June 2020 as he was still 
unhappy with the time being taken. He was also unhappy that he had been charged interest 
on the hotel booking amount. JLFS apologised again for the length of time being taken, and 
they refunded Mr M £26.50 interest charges, as well as awarding him 2000 JLFS partnership 
points.
In early July 2020 JLFS told Mr M that they wouldnt be refunding his payment. They said 
there was no evidence that led them to believe Mr M was due a refund in line with the terms 
and conditions of his booking. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld it. He said that he didnt think JLFS had acted fairly by not raising a chargeback for 
Mr M. He said Mr M had never received the service he had paid for, and the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules confirmed that a chargeback right existed in this situation. To put 
things right for Mr M, our investigator said JLFS should refund him the full amount of 
£150.38.
Mr M accepted this but JLFS didnt. They said the terms and conditions from the retailer 
stated no refund would be given, so they felt that any chargeback claim would have been 
declined. 
As JLFS didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M paid E for his booking, and, for the purpose of a chargeback, they are the merchant of 
record in this situation. So, theyre responsible for chargebacks where the service paid for 
has not been received. The emails between Mr M and H dont suggest Mr M tried to 
terminate the agreement. In fact, Mr M was told to speak to E to do so and has confirmed to 
our service that E failed to respond to him. Im satisfied Mr M didnt cancel the agreement 
with E, and the underlying circumstances that prevented Mr M from staying at the hotel also 
prevented E from providing the accommodation as booked. Here, the lockdown imposed by 
the government in the UK didnt allow for leisure accommodation of the type Mr M had 
chosen. Because the accommodation couldnt lawfully be provided the contract looks like it 
was frustrated.
Where a contract is frustrated  meaning unforeseen circumstances have made it impossible 
to perform  the usual legal remedy is that the parties are released from their contractual 
obligations. In this situation, E wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Ms booking, and Mr M would 
be restored to his original financial position by having his money back. 
As the investigator noted, an event such as this gives rise to a valid chargeback claim 
because services paid for have not been provided. That is supported by the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme guidance issued in May 2020, which was available to JLFS at the time 
they were dealing with Mr Ms claim. The guidance says:
Question: The cardholder prepaid for services (e.g. flight or hotel reservation) and 
the cardholder was notified that the merchant will not be able to provide the services. 
No refund has been processed. Does an issuer have chargeback rights?
Answer: Yes. There is a chargeback right when services are not provided, including 
when they are cancelled by a merchant due to government restrictions, insolvency or 
other exceptional circumstances, unless the merchant has a right to provide the 
cardholder with reasonable alternatives based on the terms and conditions properly 
disclosed to the cardholder at the time [of] purchase, or based on applicable 
government legislation or regulation.
In this case, E never responded to Mr M and didnt offer any reasonable alternatives. JLFS 
have argued that the terms and conditions of Mr Ms booking state that the booking is 
non-refundable. But that seems to be in relation to a cancellation requested by Mr M. There 
isnt anything contained in the terms and conditions that confirm the booking is 
non-refundable if H is unable to supply the room. Im satisfied that Mr M did have a valid 
chargeback right, and by not pursuing one JLFS have treated him unfairly. And Im satisfied 
that, had JLFS raised the chargeback, it would have more than likely been successful based 
on the information Ive seen. In circumstances such as this, I would ordinarily ask JLFS to 
pursue the chargeback claim now  but Im aware it is outside of the chargeback scheme 
rules time limits to be successful. So, my decision is that JLFS should reimburse Mr M the 
total amount of £150.38 along with interest at 8% to reflect the fact hes been out of pocket 
for some time.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. John Lewis Financial Services Limited must:
Refund Mr M £150.38 that he paid for the hotel accommodation.
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the original chargeback claim 
was declined until the date this is settled.*
*If John Lewis Financial Services Limited consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman