DRN-3470565
The complaint
Mr O has complained about a second charge secured loan he held with Evolution Lending 
Limited. Mr O said, in summary:
He didnt fully understand that the interest is front loaded.
Evolution reported to the credit reference agencies the loan balance plus all the interest 
due over the full term, rather than just the amount owing at that time.
Although hed made the contractual repayments for a year, the amount he needed to 
repay when redeeming the mortgage was almost the same as the amount he borrowed.
The set-up fees and the early repayment charge (ERC) were too high.
To resolve things Mr O has said he wants the set-up fees and ERC to be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision in November 2022, the findings of which said:
Mr O has said he didnt understand that the interest was front loaded.
Front loaded interest means that the total amount of interest due to be charged over the 
term of the agreement is added on at the beginning (so all the interest is charged on the 
original amount borrowed)  as opposed to interest being added on a regular basis during 
the course of the loan, so as the balance goes down, less interest is charged month-on-
month. 
Section 1 of the terms and conditions, which is entitled THE LOAN INTEREST AND 
REPAYMENT explained how interest would be charged, saying:
We will transfer the Amount of the Loan to your nominated bank account following 
completion of the loan and open a loan account in your name and debit it with the Total 
Amount Financed. We will debit the account once a month with the interest owed by you. 
Interest at the Rate of Interest will accrue on a daily basis on the debit balance standing 
on the account, or at the rate as varied and notified by us to you in accordance with 
Clause 1(c).
From this we can see that the terms and conditions of the account said the interest would 
be calculated daily and added to the account periodically (rather than all being charged 
upfront based on the initial opening balance). I can understand why Mr O felt it was 
front-loaded, due to how information was recorded by Evolution and reported to his credit 
file  which Ill deal with shortly  but I can confirm the interest wasnt all charged for the full 
term based on the opening balance and added on day one.
This was a repayment loan. This means that if all the contractual payments were made in 
full and on time, the loan would be repaid in full at the end of the 15-year term. The nature 
of a repayment mortgage means that in the early years a much higher percentage of the 
contractual payment goes to paying the interest; thats because the balance is higher at 
that point, therefore more interest is due. In later years, that reverses and most of the 
contractual payment goes towards reducing the balance; thats because the balance is 
lower at that point, so less interest is due. That is completely normal, and as I would expect 
to see. 
I reviewed the transaction history provided by Evolution and I cant see any errors in how it 
has calculated Mr Os mortgage, mortgage balance or overall redemption figure required. 
Im satisfied Evolution has taken all Mr Os payments into account when it has calculated 
the interest due. Its not possible for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an 
account history. Its open to Mr O to instruct a suitably qualified independent accountant to 
do that for him. That would have to be at his expense, though if an error were found to his 
financial detriment he could include any reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh 
complaint that followed.
I understand Mr O was unhappy about how this account was reported to the credit 
reference agencies as Evolution reported the total amount repayable, rather than the actual 
balance owing. Mr O hasnt given me any reason to believe this has caused him a financial 
loss, and Im pleased to see that Evolution now reports accounts as I would expect to see 
for regulated mortgage contracts like this  that is, since June 2022 Evolution has reported 
the actual balance to the credit reference agencies for all active agreements. As Mr O had 
already repaid his loan by this time he wont have seen the change, but were his loan to 
have still been outstanding then  in this particular case as Mr O hasnt demonstrated any 
financial loss - I would have said that Evolution had done enough by now reporting the 
account in this way.
Mr O has said that the set-up fees and ERC were too high. Ive listened to the call between 
Mr O and the adviser, and reviewed all the documents that were issued at the time and Im 
satisfied the fees and ERC were all clearly disclosed to him before he took out the loan.
In the call on 10 February 2021 the adviser discussed the fees with Mr O. As he wanted to 
add the fees to the loan he was told The two fees that are in there. Theres a 10% product 
fee of £2,500 and a lending fee of £699.
The fees were set out in the explanation document as:
When you take out a second charge mortgage with Evolution Lending Limited you will be 
required to pay the following fees:
A Product Fee of £2,500.00
A Product Fee is charged to you as you have been referred to Evolution Lending by an 
introducer, (this can include associated group companies). Evolution Lending will pay 
them a commission for the introduction.
[]
A Lending Fee of £699.00
A Lending fee covers the services we will provide in assessing and processing your loan 
application.
The frequently asked questions provided the following information:There are no upfront fees to pay when you apply through Evolution Money for a second 
charge secured loan, however if your application is successful, you will be required to pay 
the following fees, all of which are non-refundable.
Total fee amounts are broken down as follows;
On a successful application - Product Fee of 10% of the loan applied for is charged if you 
have been referred to us by an introducer (including associated companies). Evolution 
will pay them a fee for the introduction. Also a lending fee as detailed on page 4 is 
charged, for the relationship management services we will provide in assessing and 
processing your application. The charges breakdown can be found on your Conditional 
and Binding Mortgage offer documents.
At this point you can choose to pay the fees separately or add the fees to the amount you 
borrow. Should you opt to do that you will pay interest on it under the terms of the Binding 
Mortgage Offer and it will be reflected in the calculation of the APRC.
The binding mortgage offer said:
Costs to be paid on a one-off basis
Product Fee: £2,500.00
You want to add this fee to this mortgage.
This is charged to you as you have been referred to us by an introducer, (this can include 
associated group companies). We will pay to them a commission for the introduction.
This fee is payable on completion to Evolution Lending Limited and it will not be 
refundable.
Lending Fee: £699.00
You want to add this fee to this mortgage.
This covers the services we will provide in assessing and processing your loan 
application.
This fee is payable on completion to Evolution Lending Limited and it will not be 
refundable.
And the terms and conditions of the loan account said:
Product fee of £2,500.00 will be charged to you when you have been referred to us by an 
introducer, including associated group companies. We will pay to them a fee for the 
introduction.
[]
Lending Fee
 
A Lending Fee of £699.00 will be charged to you for the assessing and processing of your 
application
In the call on 10 February 2021, Mr O asked whether there would be a fee for repaying the 
loan early and he was told that there would be an additional two months of interest added 
as an early repayment charge. Later in the call Mr O asked the adviser what the likely 
repayment amount would be in July. The adviser said he couldnt produce that figure, but 
he could find out what the maximum amount that would be repayable on early settlement 
would be. The adviser said:If for example youve taken out this loan for £25,000 and you decide to repay the loan 
early, youll pay back whatever is outstanding in the capital and the fees, so its the 
£25,000 plus the £3,199, plus the two months additional interest. Now the maximum the 
two months interest would ever be is £813.08. Now adding those three figures together 
the maximum that would ever be would be £29,012.08. But of course over time you will 
be slowly chipping away at the capital payment.
To which Mr O answered, OK fine.
The ERC was explained in the mortgage offer as:
You have the right to repay this loan early, either fully or partially.
Early repayment charge (partial repayment): There are no conditions or charges which 
apply to partial early repayment.
Early repayment charge (full repayment): If you repay the mortgage early in full you are 
required to pay an early repayment charge calculated on the basis of the last two months' 
interest charge. This will be a maximum of £813.08 assuming the interest rate remains as 
stated at section 4 above.
Should you decide to repay this loan early, please contact us to ascertain the exact level 
of the early repayment charge at that moment.
This was reiterated in the terms and conditions:
If you repay the mortgage early in full you are required to pay an early repayment charge 
calculated on the basis of the last two months' interest charge. This will be a maximum of 
£813.08 assuming the Rate of Interest remains the same as that stated in your Binding 
Mortgage Offer.
Im satisfied the set-up fees and ERC were clearly disclosed to Mr O before he took out the 
loan and they were fairly charged in line with his contract. Neither seem unusual for the 
[type] of contract Mr O entered into and are broadly in line with what Ive seen for other 
similar loans. If Mr O was unhappy with either the set-up fees or the ERC then he could 
have chosen not to take the loan out.
Having considered everything, I can see no grounds for me to order the set-up fees or ERC 
be refunded.
Evolution accepted my provisional decision, and Mr O  despite reminders of the deadline 
and more time being given  didnt respond.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the whole file afresh I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman