DRN-2569200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had the benefit of a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by URV, 
which was taken out by them to cover a trip abroad between 11 February and 5 March 2020 
inclusive (the policy). The policy was issued in the early part of January 2020.
Mr and Mrs G had planned to travel abroad with two friends  who were not insured under 
the policy. Unfortunately, before they were due to travel, one of their friends had to have 
urgent surgery to remove her gall bladder and was unable to travel. Not wanting to go on 
their trip abroad without their friends, Mr and Mrs G decided not to travel and cancelled their 
holiday.
They made a cancellation claim under the policy. URV declined the claim on the basis that 
their friend, who required urgent surgery, had received treatment for a blocked bile duct 
shortly before theyd taken out the policy. As such, URV said, the claim was excluded under 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt think that was fair. They raised their concerns with URV, but it 
maintained its position. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G complained to our Service. Our investigator 
didnt think URV had unfairly declined their claim so didnt uphold their complaint. Mr and 
Mrs G disagree. Their complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of policy being met, the policy does provide cover if a trip 
needs to be cancelled for stipulated reasons. And that includes if you or a travelling 
companion is ill, quarantined, injured or dies before the trip starts.
However, the policy goes on to say that cover is available provided you:
accept that we can only offer to medically screen and extend cover for existing medical 
conditions to our own policyholders so if any of the following people cause you to cancel 
because of a reoccurrence or complication of a medical condition diagnosed prior to 
travel you will not be covered:
-A travel companion not insured by us
URV has sought to rely on this term to decline the claim. And having considered the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that it has acted fairly and reasonably in doing 
so. Ill explain why. 
Its not disputed by Mr and Mrs G that one of the friends with whom they were due to go on 
holiday with in February 2020, became ill in December 2019 and her medical notes reflect 
that she was diagnosed with bile duct calculus with acute cholecystitis. Im satisfied this 
amounts to a medical condition as defined by the policy.
Ive seen reference to Mr and Mrs Gs friend being keen to have surgery before 11 January 
2020, but she was told this wasnt realistic. And that the best bet is to go on holidayas 
planned in February. Theres also mention of them having the gall bladder removed after 
she returned.
Mr and Mrs G say that they were unaware of the details as to why their friend was ill at the 
time. But they say they were informed in early January 2020 that shed been successfully 
treated and was able to go on holiday as planned. 
However, very sadly, their friend became ill again and she was advised that her gall bladder 
would need to be removed at the earliest opportunity. The operation took place the day 
before the planned trip. 
So, all in all, I dont think URV has unfairly concluded that the holiday was cancelled 
because of a reoccurrence or complication of a medical condition diagnosed prior to travel of 
a travel companion who wasnt insured by it under the policy. 
When making this finding, Ive taken on board all Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including that 
as far as they were concerned when taking out the policy, the issue with their friends bile 
duct had been dealt with  and that shed been assured that the problem couldnt reoccur. 
So, they say the issue couldnt have been foreseen. 
However, their friend was due to attend a follow-up appointment shortly after they were due 
to return from their holiday and possible surgery to remove her gall balder had been 
discussed. And although their friend was told by those who treated her in December 2019 
that she could still go on holiday, I dont think it automatically follows that URV has 
unreasonably relied on the policy terms to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim. The reason their 
friend needed the surgery was a reoccurrence of the medical condition shed been 
diagnosed with a couple of months earlier, before the policy was taken out. 
I know Mr and Mrs G will be very disappointed with my decision. And I know that theyve lost 
a considerable amount of money by cancelling their trip. I can understand why they feel 
upset particularly as theyve said their friends travel insurance ended up covering their 
friends cancellation costs. But even if thats the case, Ive considered the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Gs claim. And for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that URV has 
unfairly declined to cover Mr and Mrs Gs cancellation costs under the terms of the policy 
they had the benefit of. 
Mr and Mrs G have also said that the policy was mis-sold to them. If they havent already 
done so they will need to raise a complaint about the sale of the policy to the business who 
sold it to them, in the first instance.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman