DRN-1972747
 
The complaint
Ms F complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) wont cover the cost 
of repairs for a car she acquired using a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In March 2017, Ms F acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
BMWFS. The car was a little over a year old and had travelled around 4,000 miles. The cash 
price of the car was around £19,000 with a total repayable of around £23,000 over 49 
months. The monthly repayments were around £240 with an optional final payment of 
around £9,000.
Around six months after acquiring the car Ms F says there was a strange noise coming from 
the car. The dealership inspected the car and found a wheel bearing needed replacing. The 
cost of this replacement was covered by the warranty. 
In June 2019, Ms F says she had a problem with the parking brake switch. She says she 
asked her local garage to fix the broken spring. She says the mechanic told her the car was 
making a noise which suggested the wheel bearing needed replacing. Ms F said she 
contacted the dealership to arrange for the bearing to be replaced under warranty. However, 
she says the service she received from the dealership was very poor and she raised a 
complaint about the way shed been treated. She says the dealership agreed to cover the 
cost of the replacement wheel bearing which her local garage agreed to replace in 
July 2019. 
Around one month later, the clutch failed on the car. At this time the car had travelled around 
17,000 miles. Ms F took the car to her local garage who agreed to repair the clutch at a cost 
of £2,477.38. The garage said the cause of the clutch failing was due to a mechanical fault 
which had caused premature wear in the clutch. Ms F asked BMWFS to cover the costs of 
the repair. 
BMWFS accepted that the wheel bearing problem hadnt been correctly rectified following 
the first repair, so it agreed to cover the costs of the second replacement. However, it didnt 
think it was responsible for the problems with the clutch. It said that it hadnt been given the 
opportunity to inspect the clutch or to try and fix it. It said as it had happened so long after 
Ms F acquired the car, it thought the damage was more likely due to normal wear or driver 
misuse. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He was persuaded that the clutch 
had failed due to a mechanical fault and not by driver misuse. He thought the car therefore 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and BMWFS ought to cover the cost of repairs. He said Ms F 
had been put under stress and worry of having to find nearly £2,500 to cover the cost of the 
repairs as she needed the car for her young family. He said BMWFS should also pay an 
additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
BMWFS didnt agree. In summary, it said clutch wear is heavily user dependent. If the clutch 
failure was due to driver misuse then this shouldnt be BMWFS responsibility to rectify. It 
said BMWFS werent given the opportunity to try and mitigate any costs associated with the 
repairs. It said that while Ms F raised the issues with the manufacturer, BMWFS are a 
separate organisation and her contract was with them. It said there wasnt any certainty for 
the cause of the failure in the clutch.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement Ms F signed is a regulated consumer credit agreement, so this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase agreement, BMWFS 
is also the supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term into any contract to supply goods that 
those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what a reasonable 
person would expect, taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all other 
relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent 
limited to  the age and mileage of the car and the cash price.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability.
BMWFS supplied Ms F with a car that I would consider to be nearly new, in that it had only 
travelled around 4,000 miles and was a little over a year old. The cash price of the car was 
£19,000 and it seems the car was in a good overall condition. My starting point therefore is 
that a reasonable person would expect the quality of the car to be of a higher standard than 
a more road worn, cheaper car. And I think it would be reasonable to expect it to be free 
from defects for a considerable period of time. 
The issues with the wheel bearings are no longer in dispute as BMWFS has agreed to cover 
those costs. Whats left for me to decide is whether the issue Ms F experienced with the 
clutch made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
Clutches do wear over time, but taking into account the circumstances in this case, Im not 
persuaded that 17,000 miles is either expected or a reasonable length of time for the clutch 
to last. This is a significant problem to arise and one which is costly to put right. Ms F paid 
nearly £2,500 to repair the problem. Given how relatively low the overall mileage of the car 
was I dont think this was a cost a reasonable person would expect to bear or a fault that 
would be expected to arise. 
The garage that diagnosed the fault and completed the repairs provided their conclusions on 
the cause of the fault. It said: Stripped gearbox, and found dual mass clutch flywheel with 
excessive play and thus scored clutch plate and in turn clutch fork too. Due to faulty dual 
mass a lot of excessive play has created a rubbing effect on clutch causing very pre-mature 
wear. The conclusion of the engineer appears to therefore be that the cause of the fault was 
due to a mechanical problem. 
The engineer also commented that they had never seen a clutch fail so soon on a similar 
make and model of car of that age. Given the engineer has stripped the clutch and fully 
diagnosed the problem, Ive placed a lot of weight on the findings of this report. In doing so, 
Im persuaded, that the fault with the clutch was due to a mechanical defect which has 
caused the clutch to fail prematurely. For this reason, I dont think the clutch (and therefore 
the car) was reasonably durable or of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.Ive taken into consideration that BMWFS says the clutch failure could be due to driver 
misuse. But Ive not seen anything to demonstrate thats likely to be the case. The engineer 
that inspected the car hasnt suggested this is a possibility either. 
BMWFS has also said it (or the supplying dealership) wasnt given the opportunity to inspect 
the car or to mitigate the costs of repairs. I can see that the engineer provided Ms F with the 
failed parts so she could provide them to BMWFS or the manufacturer if they wanted to 
inspect them. It appears Ms F offered BMWFS the opportunity to inspect these components, 
but it chose not to do so. Further, I dont think Ms F acted unreasonably in approaching her 
own garage given the problems shed had with the dealership previously. 
In any event, Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and it would be fair and 
reasonable for BMWFS to put that right, regardless of where Ms F had the repairs or 
inspection carried out. BMWFS hasnt provided anything to demonstrate that the costs of the 
repairs were excessive or unreasonable, so Im not persuaded BMWFS has lost out as a 
result of Ms Fs actions. Further, BMWFS hasnt provided anything persuasive to make me 
think the conclusions of the engineer that inspected the clutch are likely to be inaccurate. 
Putting things right
The CRA sets out that where the supplied goods arent of satisfactory quality, the consumer 
can require the supplier (BMWFS in this case) to fix any faults. Ms F has already had the 
clutch repaired, so BMWFS no longer need to carry out the repairs. However, as Ms F has 
paid for those repairs when she shouldnt have needed to, I think its fair BMWFS refunds 
those costs to her.
Ms F has understandably gone through a degree of inconvenience and stress in trying to 
source alternative funds to quickly cover the costs of the repairs. She says she needed it as 
she has a young family and had to approach friends and family as well as sourcing other 
forms of interest free credit. As it seems this isnt money Ms F has used that she otherwise 
had access to, I dont propose to add any interest to my award. However, in the 
circumstances I think its fair for BMWFS to pay her a further £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited to:
Pay Ms F £2,477.38 covering the cost of repairs.
Pay Ms F £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman