DRN-4342016
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about a CIFAS marker being placed against his name by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and the consequences of that.
Mr O says Barclays treated him unfairly and hasnt provided adequate compensation for 
their actions.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator considered Mr Os complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that Barclays had adequately compensated him for the distress and inconvenience he said 
hed suffered as a result of the CIFAS marker being placed against his name. Mr O doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. This is why.
Its not in dispute that Barclays wrongly placed a CIFAS marker against Mr Os name after 
they identified what they thought was a suspicious payment into his account. Barclays 
accept the marker shouldnt have been placed against his name and recognise the impact 
this had on Mr O. As such they paid him £1,600 to compensate him for this, which Mr O 
accepted.
The issue for me to determine is whether that compensation was enough. Mr O thinks 
Barclays should pay him between £4,000-£5,000 instead. Ive considered everything, 
including the problems the CIFAS marker caused for Mr O and the duration it was in place, 
until it was removed. Mr O had already lost unrestricted access to his Barclays account 
whilst the suspicious payment was being investigated. During this time, he also lost access 
to two other bank accounts with different providers as a result of the CIFAS marker.
Mr O says he couldnt access his earnings and that he became unwell as a result of the 
stress of this issue, which meant that he was unable to work. He feels that Barclays should 
reimburse him for the earnings he lost as a result of this. I can see that both Barclays and 
the investigator asked Mr O for evidence of the loss of earnings he was claiming for, but he 
hasnt provided anything. I appreciate he says the marker prevented him from taking out any 
loans or credit, but I havent seen anything that supports he tried or needed to apply for this 
and was unsuccessful as a result of the CIFAS marker wrongly being in place. So, whilst I 
appreciate the difficult position he found himself in, I cant say that Barclays need to pay him 
anything further nor that hes suffered any additional financial loss that Barclays havent 
already compensated him for.
As things stand, Mr O lost access to his Barclays account in September 2022. The CIFAS 
marker was removed from his name in March 2023. I think the payment of £1,600 
adequately compensates him for the distress and inconvenience the marker caused him for 
the six months it was in place.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman