DRN-3016174
The complaint
The estate of Mr S has complained that Tuto Money Limited (Tuto) failed to properly 
disclose all information provided to them by the late Mr S when he applied for a life 
assurance policy through it.  
  
What happened
Mr S contacted Tuto, a firm of brokers, in October 2016 to discuss taking out a life 
assurance policy. This was to provide cover for a mortgage recently taken out for home 
improvements. Tuto arranged for a policy to be taken out with a third-party insurer, who Ill 
refer to as Company A. The policy was taken out in Mr Ss sole name and was a level term 
policy with a sum assured of £35,000. The policy term was ten years and the start date was 
20 October 2016. Mr S paid premiums of £32.99 per month for this level of cover. 
Mr S was unfortunately diagnosed with terminal lung cancer in October 2018. He submitted 
a claim to Company A under the terminal illness part of the policy. The claim was declined, 
the policy was voided and all premiums were refunded, as Company A said Mr S failed to 
correctly answer medical questions asked by it at the application stage. 
Company A said Mr S disclosed some medical conditions, but didnt tell it about the severity 
of his Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The questions it thought Mr S 
should have answered differently were: 
Have you claimed any government benefits, allowances or credits due to disability or 
illness, or retired early due to this condition?  the answer given was no.
How often do you get symptoms such as a cough, wheezing or shortness of breath?  the 
answer given was occasional symptoms which are confined to winter. 
Other than when you have a flare up of symptoms of this condition, which of the following 
best describes your capacity to climb a flight of stairs?  the answer given was minimal 
shortness of breath when climbing a flight of stairs. 
Company A said it was clear the underlying cause for Mr S retiring early from his job was 
COPD. It said it was also clear Mr Ss condition caused him more problems than just minimal 
shortness of breath while climbing stairs and that symptoms were not confined to the winter. 
Mr S made a complaint to this service about Company A at the beginning of July 2019, with 
a family member acting as his representative. He sadly passed away at the end of July 2019 
and the complaint was taken on by his estate. One of our investigators looked into it and 
said she thought Company A acted fairly when it took the actions outlined above. 
The estate of Mr S then made a complaint to Tuto, as they were concerned that Tuto hadnt 
properly disclosed all of the medical information to Company A that Mr S had disclosed to it. 
Tuto didnt uphold the complaint. It said it sent an email to Mr S in 2016 and attached a copy 
of his application. It said Mr S was asked to contact it if anything on the application was 
incorrect, and so he should have contacted it at that point if there were any inconsistencies.
The estate of Mr S was unhappy with the response from Tuto and so complained to this 
service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said he could see that the Tuto 
advisor had made errors and recorded incorrect medical information about Mr S, which was 
passed to Company A. As a result, a policy was taken out for Mr S with Company A that 
otherwise wouldnt have been offered if Company A had been provided with full details of his 
medical history. Our investigator said there were no other insurers who would have offered 
Mr S a policy, given his medical history. Our investigator suggested Tuto pay £500 to 
compensate for the loss of expectation. 
 
The estate of Mr S didnt agree with the outcome. They said they listened to several 
telephone calls between Mr S and the Tuto advisor and it was clear Mr S contacted Tuto in 
order to take out an over 50s policy with a particular insurer, who I will refer to later in this 
decision as Company B. And that, at the time of the advice, Mr S was told he could take out 
a plan with Company B for a lower sum assured and higher premium. So they thought this 
showed Mr S would have been offered a policy, regardless of his medical history, by 
Company B. 
 
As the estate of Mr S didnt agree with what our investigator said, this complaint came to me 
for a decision. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2021 and said I intended to uphold this complaint 
and ask Tuto to pay an amount of £9,946 less the premiums Mr S would have paid to 
Company B from the date the policy would have been taken out to the date of his death. And 
also to pay 8% simple interest on the remaining balance, from 31 August 2019 to the 
settlement date. This was because I was satisfied Tuto had submitted incorrect information 
about Mr S to Company A; had provided him with a policy that he couldnt benefit from and 
in doing so denied him the opportunity to set up a suitable over 50s policy. I gave both 
parties the opportunity to respond. 
The estate of Mr S responded and said they agreed with the outcome. The estate of Mr S 
also said Mr S had been upset at being called a liar and they were pleased he was being 
seen as completely honest in this matter. 
Tuto also responded and didnt agree with the outcome. Referring to the increased premium 
that Mr S would have needed to pay for the over 50s life plan, it said it could only take into 
consideration the amount the consumer agreed was affordable at the time of the original 
advice. And so it wasnt sure how affordability could be assessed retrospectively through a 
third party. Tuto also said it couldnt be assumed that Mr S would have been willing to pay an 
increased premium for a lower sum assured. 
Tuto also said that by not checking the application was correct, Mr S partially, if not wholly, 
caused his own loss. It said it does not understand how I could confirm Mr S should have 
reviewed the documents and noted the errors, yet hold Tuto liable for the whole loss. It said 
Mr S was given several opportunities to read all documentation. Tuto asked for all 
information to be taken into consideration and fault distributed accordingly. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that the estate of Mr S believe he provided the Tuto advisor with 
information about his medical history that the advisor didnt pass onto Company A. And that 
as a result, Mr S took out a policy that he couldnt claim on and was denied the opportunity 
to take out a policy better suited to him. 
Ive first of all looked at the three questions that Company A said were answered incorrectly, 
as it was because of the answers provided to these questions that Mr Ss claim was declined 
and his policy was cancelled. 
One of the questions from the application form that the Tuto advisor should have asked Mr S 
was: 
Have you claimed any government benefits, allowances or credits due to disability or 
illness, or retired early due to this condition?
Ive listened to two phone calls between Mr S and the Tuto advisor and this question wasnt 
asked. And, even though the question wasnt asked, the Tuto advisor answered no on the 
application form and provided that information to Company A. So Im satisfied the advisor 
made an error here and provided an answer to a question that she hadnt asked Mr S. 
Another of the questions that Company A said Mr S answered incorrectly was: 
How often do you get symptoms such as a cough, wheezing or shortness of breath?
But the question actually asked by the Tuto advisor during one of the phone calls was:
Your symptoms, are they kind of occasional symptoms which are confined to winter?
Mr S answered no I have the symptoms all year round, just because of old damage to the 
lungs. It wont get better and all Ive got to do is make sure it doesnt get any worse. 
But the Tuto advisor didnt use the information provided by Mr S to answer this particular 
question when she completed the application form. Instead she chose occasional 
symptoms which are confined to winter as the answer and provided this information to 
Company A. 
The answer provided to Company A by the Tuto advisor is different to the answer provided 
by Mr S. I think its clear Mr S said he experienced COPD symptoms all year round. So, 
again, the Tuto advisor made an error here and provided an incorrect answer to Company A. 
The final question which Company A said Mr S answered incorrectly, which was in relation 
to his COPD, was:
Other than when you have a flare up of symptoms of this condition, which of the following 
best describes your capacity to climb a flight of stairs?
The question asked by the Tuto advisor was:
When youre not having a flare up, what best describes your capacity to climb a flight of 
stairs? Are you able to climb with no problem at all?Mr S responded: 
I get breathless, thats why we recently moved to a bungalow.
The advisor then asked: 
Is that minimal? and Mr S responded Yes
The answer the Tuto advisor then provided to Company A was: 
minimal shortness of breath when climbing a flight of stairs. 
Im satisfied that the Tuto advisor made an error here and provided the wrong answer to 
Company A in relation to this question. Mr S clearly indicated he could no longer climb stairs 
and that he and his wife had recently moved to a bungalow because of this. Its my 
understanding that when the advisor asked is that minimal? she was reading from a list of 
options on the application form. And if she had wanted clarification from Mr S about which of 
the options best fitted his situation, then she should have provided him with the full wording 
of the option, which was minimal shortness of breath when climbing a flight of stairs. She 
shouldnt have shortened this in the way she did, as not asking the full question meant that 
what the advisor actually asked here was open to interpretation. Im satisfied its highly likely 
Mr S thought that minimal meant he could only do the minimum amount when it came to 
climbing stairs. I dont think he would have thought he was confirming he suffered from 
minimal shortness of breath when he responded to the advisor. 
What the above means is that Im satisfied the Tuto advisor provided incorrect information to 
Company A about Mr Ss medical history in relation to the three questions highlighted by 
Company A. The advisor failed to ask each of the questions in the way they were set out on 
the application form and subsequently provided answers that were incorrect. 
So the next step is for me to look at whether or not the errors made by the Tuto advisor 
placed Mr S at a disadvantage. And Im satisfied they did. Ill explain why. 
The policy taken out with Company A was medically underwritten. And the severity of Mr Ss 
medical conditions means that he wouldnt have been able to take out that particular policy 
with Company A if the Tuto advisor had answered all questions correctly. So, although errors 
have been made, its the case that the estate of Mr S would never have been able to claim 
on this particular policy. Im also satisfied that its more likely than not Mr S would never have 
been able to take out a medically underwritten policy with another insurer. 
I can see, however, that when Mr S first spoke to Tuto, he mentioned that he was looking to 
take out an over 50s plan with a specific insurer, Company B. In fact, Mr S was expecting a 
call from Company B and not Tuto. The significance of this is that over 50s plans arent 
medically underwritten and so Mr S would have been automatically eligible to take out one of 
these policies. 
But these plans are often considerably more expensive than medically underwritten plans 
and also provide significantly lower sums assured. So Ive looked at whether I think Mr S 
might have taken out one of these more expensive plans in 2016, if he had known at the 
time that he couldnt take out a medically underwritten plan. And Im satisfied its more likely 
than not Mr S would have taken out an over 50s plan, if he had been made aware by the 
Tuto advisor, as he should have been, that this was most likely his only option for cover. 
I say this because I contacted the estate of Mr S and asked for more information about Mr Ss intentions when he was looking for life cover. I was informed that Mr S had always 
been cautious and taken out life insurance to make sure any mortgages he and his wife took 
out were covered. And Mr S and his wife had recently taken out a mortgage, which was why 
he was looking for cover on this occasion. The estate of Mr S also said Mr S was aware that 
if he passed away before his wife, then she would likely struggle to pay the mortgage 
because the pensions they received while he was alive would be halved following his death. 
So, given that I thought Mr S would more likely than not have opted for an over 50s plan, I 
contacted Company B to see whether they would have offered Mr S a policy back in 2016. 
Im aware that the Tuto advisor provided a quote to Mr S in 2016 for one of Company Bs 
plans  where the maximum sum assured would have been £20,000 and the premium would 
have cost £70 per month. Company B has confirmed that if this was a term life assurance 
policy then it would have been medically underwritten. And it seems likely that it was, given 
that the only non-medically underwritten policy they offered is detailed below. And this 
means Mr S would not have been offered this particular policy by Company B. 
Company B confirmed the only policy they offered at that time that was not medically 
underwritten was an Over 50s guaranteed life insurance policy. Taking Mr Ss details into 
account, Company B said they would have been able to offer Mr S a policy with a sum 
assured of £9,946 at a cost of £50 per month. 
Ive then looked at whether I think its likely Mr S would have paid the additional premium, 
given that it was around £17 more expensive per month than the plan he took out with Tuto. 
The estate of Mr S provided information about his pension income and Im persuaded that 
its likely Mr S would have been able to afford the payment of £50 per month. 
When Tuto responded to my provisional decision, it said it wasnt sure how affordability 
could be assessed retrospectively through a third party and that it couldnt be assumed Mr S 
would have been willing to pay an increased premium for a lower sum assured. But it is my 
role to look at this issue retrospectively and to decide what I think would most likely have 
happened, which is what Ive done here. 
Ive also considered whether Mr S would have had a claim paid on the over 50s plan and 
Company B have confirmed he would have. They said that as long as at least 12 months 
had passed between inception of the plan and Mr S passing away, its likely they would have 
paid the full settlement amount. 
So if Mr S had taken out this plan with Company B in 2016, as I think he would have if hed 
known it was his only option, then his estate would have been eligible to make a claim 
following his death. 
What the above means is that Im satisfied Mr S was placed at a disadvantage by the 
actions of the Tuto advisor in that he was provided with a plan he wasnt able to claim on. 
And he was denied the opportunity to take out a plan that would have paid a settlement 
amount to his estate following his death. 
Im satisfied that a fair and reasonable outcome here is for Tuto to pay the settlement 
amount of £9,946 to Mr Ss estate. Tuto are allowed to deduct an amount for the premiums 
Mr S would have paid to Company B from the date the policy would have been taken out to 
the date of his death. Tuto should also pay 8% simple interest on the remaining balance, to 
compensate the estate of Mr S for not having use of this money. Its not possible to say for 
sure when Company B would have paid out on the claim. But I think its fair to say they are 
likely to have paid the claim within around four weeks of Mr Ss death. So Im satisfied that 
its fair to ask Tuto to pay interest from 31 August 2019 until the date of settlement.I realise that our investigator had suggested a compensation payment of £500 for the loss of 
expectation experienced by Mr Ss family. I appreciate this will have been a very difficult time 
for Mr Ss family and I have a great deal of sympathy for them, both in relation to their loss 
and the difficulties theyve experienced in trying to sort out their claim on the policy. This 
service, however, cant award compensation for loss of expectation where the complaint is 
brought by an estate. So Im not awarding compensation for that here.
Ive also looked at an issue raised by Tuto when this complaint was first brought to our 
service and also when I issued my provisional decision, which is that Mr S had the 
opportunity to check documentation back in 2016 to ensure it was correct. Tuto felt he 
should have raised concerns about inconsistencies then. I agree theres an expectation that 
consumers should check paperwork sent to them in particular, as was the case here, when 
they are asked to do just that. Tuto suggested that not checking the paperwork means Mr S 
is at least partially and perhaps wholly responsible for his own loss. 
Its important to note that its not the role of this service to punish businesses when they 
make errors. But it is our role to decide on a fair and reasonable outcome. Ive taken into 
account that Mr S provided correct information to the Tuto advisor, that he was assured by 
the advisor that all medical conditions he disclosed had been passed to Company A and that 
it was solely the errors on the part of the advisor that meant incorrect information was 
submitted. The Tuto advisor was the expert in this situation and so they are held to a higher 
standard than the consumer who relied on their expertise. So, given the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr S should be seen 
as being responsible, even partially, for his own loss. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and require Tuto Money Limited to pay the estate of 
Mr S an amount of £9,946 less the premiums Mr S would have paid to Company B from the 
date the policy would have been taken out to the date of his death. Tuto Money Limited 
should also pay 8% simple interest on the remaining balance, from 31 August 2019 to the 
settlement date. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman