DRN-3443546
The complaint
Mr M says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out eight instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, £
1 26/05/2010 2,088 24 155.82
2 29/10/2010 1,588 24 153.55
3 14/09/2011 2,770 24 185.96
4 09/10/2013 1,680 18 158.04
5 27/06/2014 3,367 48 224.19
6 29/02/2016 6,806 48 372.83
7 06/07/2017 7,498 45 418.44
8 29/03/2019 4,100 36 313.01
Mr M says ELLs checks were not proportionate, and it did not assess signs of his over-
indebtedness. This worsened his financial situation which was already poor. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said ELL had not made fair lending decisions 
for any of the loans.
ELL agreed with this assessment for loans 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. But not for loans 1 and 4 and 
so asked for an ombudsmans review. The complaint was therefore passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr M required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As there is no longer any dispute that loans 2,3,5,6,7 and 8 should not have been given to 
Mr M I will focus here on loans 1 and 4. I will include the other loans in any redress I set out.
Loans 1 and 4
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loans. It asked
for details of his income and checked this on payslips. It asked for copies of recent bank 
statements. It estimated his living costs using a set percentage of his income that it says was 
widely regarded as the national average. It also checked Mr Ms credit file to understand his 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history each time. It asked about the purpose 
of both loans, Mr M said both were for car expenses. From these checks combined ELL 
concluded Mr M could afford to take on the loans.
I think the checks were proportionate for loan 1, but I am not wholly persuaded they were for 
loan 4 given the stage in the lending relationship by then. However I wont comment on this 
further as I dont think ELL made fair lending decisions - even based on the information it did 
have for loan 4. Ill explain why.
ELLs affordability assessment for loan 1 showed that Mr M would have disposable income 
of £69.59 each month after taking on the loan. As he had a relatively low income (£936.61) I think ELL ought to have realised that with so little disposable income there was a risk the 
loan would not sustainably affordably for Mr M over its 24-month term. And it needed to 
consider this to meet is regulatory obligations, not just the absolute pounds and pence 
affordability. ELL was aware that Mr M was already using short-term high-cost credit 
indicating he was most likely struggling to make ends meet. In the round, I think it was most 
likely Mr M would suffer some type of adverse financial consequence as a result of being 
giving this loan.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr M. ELL argues that loan 1 was not 
irresponsible as it was to repay payday loans. But this is inaccurate, the loan was for a car  
as ELLs final response letter confirms. Its affordability assessment for loan 1 also shows 
there was no planned debt consolidation. So its point does not change my conclusion. 
By the time Mr M applied for loan 4 he had been using borrowing from ELL for forty 
consecutive months. Loan 2 had in part repaid loan1, loan 3 had in part repaid loan 2 and 
loan 3 had only been repaid in full three weeks before the application for loan 4. ELL knew 
Mr M had taken out loans 2 and 3 for debt consolidation yet it could see when he applied for 
loan 4 he was still using payday loans. Giving loan 4 to Mr M meant he would need to spend 
over a third of his income (now £1,187.85) on his monthly credit commitments. I think at this 
level, and given his history of seemingly being trapped in a harmful cycle of using high-cost 
credit to repay other high-cost debts, I think ELL ought to have realised loan 4 was also most 
likely to cause adverse financial consequences for Mr M.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give ELL loan 4. ELL argues that Mr M would have had 
£149.81 disposable income each month and so the loan was not irresponsibly lent. But for 
the reasons set out above this does not change my conclusion  ELL had to do more than 
check the pounds and pence affordability and I remain satisfied that there was enough 
information to show ELL it was most likely the loan was not sustainably affordable.
I havent seen any evidence ELL acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr M in some other 
way. 
 
Putting things right 
This section relates to loans 1 to 8.
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on eight loans that 
shouldnt have been provided to him.
So ELL should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given
loans 1 to 8. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If reworking Mr Ms loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms accounts results in there still being any capital balance 
outstanding ELL should work with Mr M to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr M acertificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman