DRN-3210933
The complaint
Mrs R complains that that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company has 
turned down a claim she made on a travel insurance policy.
Mrs Rs represented by Mr H.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs R and her family booked a trip abroad. They were due to travel to a 
country Ill call T on 1 August 2020. Miss H planned to travel with them. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And 
on 14 March 2020, Mrs R took out a travel insurance policy to cover the trip. Miss H was 
also insured by the policy. The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
advised against all but essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020.
Subsequently, on 4 July 2020, the FCDO advised that certain counties would be exempt 
from its advice against all but essential travel to those destinations. T was included in this 
list. However, Mr H says that national advice at the time meant that Miss H wouldnt have 
been permitted to travel in a car with Mrs R and her family and wouldve had to socially 
distance from them during the stay abroad. On this basis, Miss Hs flights were cancelled 
and Mrs R made a cancellation claim for Miss Hs costs.
Chaucer turned down Mrs Rs claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered 
by the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs R was unhappy with Chaucers decision, so Mr H asked us to look into this complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. While he understood the 
reasons why Miss H had cancelled her trip, he didnt think the situation fell within the listed, 
specified events the policy covered. So he concluded itd been fair for Chaucer to turn down 
the claim.
Mr H disagreed. He said that these had been extreme circumstances. And there was nothing 
in the policy terms to say that this situation wouldnt be covered. The national government 
advice at the time had been not to travel in close proximity to another family. Mr H queried 
whether theyd been expected to put Miss H and other people at risk.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R, I think it was fair for Chaucer to turn 
down this claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Rs policy and the circumstances of the claim, to decide whether Chaucer 
handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of 
Chaucers contract with Mrs R. This policy is not an all-risks policy. No insurance policy 
covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to 
accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, Chaucers obligations under its 
contract with Mrs R are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in 
the policy.
Chaucer has set out the specified, listed insured events its chosen to cover and those its 
chosen to exclude in the policy terms. As Miss H didnt travel as planned, I think it was 
appropriate for Chaucer to consider the claim under the Cancellation and curtailment 
charges section of the policy. This says that Chaucer will cover a policyholders 
irrecoverable, pre-paid cancellation costs if their trip has to be cancelled for one of the 
following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of a 
treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for 
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of 
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant).
4. You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed Forces, 
Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a 
Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called 
up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation or curtailment could not 
reasonably have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at 
the time of booking any trip, which occurred or became apparent within 5 days prior 
to the commencement of your trip or during the course of your trip.
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
In this case, Mrs R and Mr H say that the trip was cancelled because of national government 
rules stating that households couldnt mix and that therefore, Miss H couldnt travel with Mrs 
Rs family. I do sympathise with Miss Hs position, especially as I understand the 
unprecedented situation which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 simply couldnt have been 
foreseen by Mrs R or Miss H when the trip was booked in February 2020. I also appreciate 
that Mrs R and Mr H were concerned about the risks Covid-19 mightve posed to Miss H and 
others. However, cancellation due to government guidance simply isnt something Chaucer 
has chosen to cover. And neither was Miss Hs trip cancelled because of any of the insured 
events Ive set out above. Im also mindful that the FCDO wasnt advising against all but 
essential travel to T at the point Miss Hs trip was cancelled either. So on the facts of this complaint, I dont think Chaucer acted unfairly when it concluded these circumstances 
werent covered and turned the claim down.
Ive also considered the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. But I dont think theres 
any section of the policy which would pay a benefit in the circumstances Miss H found 
herself in. So I dont find there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly direct 
Chaucer to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman