DRN-3928470
The complaint
Mr K complains PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit, blocked and later closed his account. 
He also complains Pockit hasnt returned the funds it was holding. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Pockit in my decision. 
What happened
In late April 2021, following a warning to Mr K not to use his account for gambling purposes, 
Pockit placed his account under review and blocked access to it. Pockit then asked Mr K to 
provide information relating to proof of his identity, address, and source of funds. 
Mr K gave Pockit some information, but Pockit wanted more. This exchange went on for 
several weeks afterwards. 
In August 2021, Pockit sent Mr K a message that it had decided to close his account 
because it had not received the required information from him. Then in October 2022, Pockit 
informed Mr K that as his account is being closed, as per its terms of account, the remaining 
funds will be returned to the original source from where they came. 
Unhappy with Pockits actions, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. 
Pockit said £1,429 that it was holding would be returned to an individual Mr K was related to 
 Ill refer to this individual as Mr G from now on. 
Mr K said he was happy his funds were now being released, but the account details it had 
for Mr G were incorrect. He said Mr G had a new account in any case and provided those 
details to one of our Investigators.
Our Investigator queried Pockit about Mr Gs account which it said it had sent the money to 
in October 2022. In response, Pockit said it had erroneously said funds were sent to Mr G, 
but it was in fact returned to a gambling company Mr K had received funds from some time 
before the review.  
Pockit apologised for this error and offered Mr K £25 compensation. Mr K refused, saying he 
wants his funds returned. 
Our Investigator then sent their outcome on Mr Ks complaint. In summary they found: 
- Pockits review of Mr Ks account was fair, and in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations 
- Pockit blocked the account in April 2021 but didnt return the funds until 
October 2022. But Pockit couldve returned the funds as early as June 2021. This 
was unfair and an error on Pockits part 
- It was poor service on Pockits part to initially say the funds were returned to Mr G 
when it later said they were returned to a gambling company. Pockit should pay Mr K 
£200 compensation for this 
- Pockit hasnt made an error in returning the money to source. Mr K should contact 
the gambling company about retrieving his funds
Pockit agreed with our Investigators recommendations. But in response Mr K said he had 
contacted the gambling company and it had not received the funds from Pockit.  As Mr K 
remained unhappy the complaint was passed to me  an Ombudsman  to decide. 
After reviewing all the evidence and arguments, I wrote to Pockit setting out my initial 
thoughts on Mr Ks complaint. In summary, the key points I made were: 
- I agreed that Pockit had concern enough to review Mr Ks account
- Pockit hasnt given enough information to show why it wasnt satisfied with the 
evidence Mr K gave it to show his entitlement to the funds, proof of address and 
identity 
- I needed more information to show Pockit had concern enough to close Mr Ks 
account in the way it did, and to return the funds to the original source accounts 
- Mr K had sent us information which shows funds havent been returned to the 
gambling company. So Pockit should provide evidence that shows this payment to 
the gambling company was made
- If Pockit cant send me enough information to show it had concern enough to have 
taken the actions it did, and that funds have been returned to the gabling company, 
then its likely I will decide it didnt have enough evidence to return the funds to the 
gambling company. And that Pockit should have given more notice of its intention to 
the close the account. 
So its likely Ill be directing Pockit to pay Mr K all his funds, plus 8% statutory interest 
from when it decided to return the funds up until settlement
- This in turn means Mr K has suffered more inconvenience and distress because of 
what Pockit did wrong. I was minded on awarding £400 compensation for this
In its response, Pockit said the return to source transfer was successful with no bounce 
backs. Pockit sent me a screenshot it says show this. 
As Pockit have responded, I will now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses in the UK, like Pockit, are strictly regulated and must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means it needs 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. 
Pockit say its internal systems warned Mr K about using his account for gambling purposes 
on two occasions after which a review was initiated  and the account was subsequently blocked. Having considered Pockits reasons for this, Im persuaded it acted fairly and in line 
with its obligations when reviewing the account. 
Pockit is also entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. 
But before a it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
As Ive said above, I needed to see more evidence which showed Pockit had concern 
enough to have acted in the way it did. By that I mean closing the account, and 
demonstrating through its due diligence the information, and attempts to get information from 
Mr K was enough. 
In short, Im persuaded Pockit hasnt shown me why the information Mr K gave it wasnt 
enough for it to close the account and return the funds to source. It worth noting that neither 
Pockit nor I are under any obligation, that Im aware of, to set-out the exact reasons here.  
So it follows that I dont think Pockit had reason enough to have closed the account and 
return the funds held in the account to source. That means Pockit should have returned the 
money to Mr K after closing the account. Mr K wanted the account closed himself, given 
what Ive seen on Pockits chat system  so I dont need to consider the loss of the account 
service. 
Return to source 
Pockit maintained for many months the funds had been returned to Mr G. Mr K highlighted 
the account details Pockit say it sent the money to, was not Mr Gs. Later, Pockit admitted it 
had made a mistake and the funds had been returned to the gambling company Mr K had 
received funds from. 
Ive already said that I dont think Pockit have shown the funds should have been returned to 
this company. In its response to my email, as summarised above, Pockit sent me a 
screenshot which it says shows the payment was made in October 2022 - and that it didnt 
bounce back. 
Having looked at this, I note its for the erroneous bank account details Mr K pointed out did 
not belong to Mr G. The screenshot does show the beneficiary to be Mr G.   
Its not clear if Pockit are saying it had the wrong beneficiaries name down, but the account 
sort code and number were that of the gambling company. Or, whether its now reverted 
back to saying the money was sent to Mr G. 
Having given this some thought, Im persuaded its most likely Pockits saying the sort code 
and account number were for the gambling company  despite the erroneous beneficiarys 
name. In any case, this isnt likely a valid account for Mr G. 
Mr K has given me several emails from his interactions with the gambling company. Having 
reviewed these, Im satisfied they are legitimate. Importantly, they say the funds Mr K is 
trying to trace havent been received by them. The email from the gambling company where 
this is said is dated January 2023  I have sent a copy of this to Pockit. So, Im satisfied this 
evidence shows the funds havent been received by the gambling company  and Mr K has 
made more than reasonable enquires. 
So, as Im persuaded the funds shouldnt have been sent back to source, and the gambling 
company hasnt received them, Pockit should now directly pay Mr K the £1,429. From the information Pockit has sent me, Im satisfied the earliest it shouldve have sent the 
money back to Mr K was June 2021. Thats when it appears it had decided to bring to close 
its investigation and due diligence process. So, given Mr K has been deprived of his money 
for much longer than he shouldve, Ill be directing Pockit to pay 8% simple interest on the 
£1,429 from June 2021 up until settlement is made.
Delays, and Distress and Inconvenience 
Pockit say it returned the funds in October 2022, thats 14 months after it told Mr K it was 
closing his account. This is an excessive and concerning delay. 
Moreover, Ive also seen that Pockit took an excessive time in investigating its concerns 
early on with there being several months delay. Pockit also erroneously told Mr K the funds 
were returned to Mr G. 
Mr G has been engaged with his complaint from the time he brought it to this service, 
regularly chasing this service and previously Pockit for updates. Hes also made extensive 
enquires to locate the funds with both Mr G and the gambling company. 
Mr G has explained this matter has caused him substantive stress. In mitigation Mr K has 
said he was able to access his benefit money, nor did he have to borrow money from others. 
So after weighing everything up and giving due consideration to the errors and extensive 
delays caused by Pockit, I think it should pay Mr K £400 for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused.  
Putting things right
To put things right, PayrNet Limited, trading as Pockit should: 
- Return £1,429 to Mr K and pay 8% simple interest on this amount from June 2021 up 
until settlement
- Pay Mr K £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. PayrNet Limited should now put 
things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman