DRN-3084523
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund payments made when his debit 
card was stolen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr Ws card, connected to his Metro account, was stolen and 
used to make unauthorised payments. But in line with the Payment Service 
Regulations 2017, Metro is entitled to hold him liable for these if he failed with intent 
to comply with his obligations  and that failure allowed the unauthorised transactions 
to take place.
In breach of his account terms, Mr W shared his card and PIN with his wife. And the 
fraudsters obtained these from her, allowing them to complete the unauthorised 
transactions. So it was his failure to keep his details secure that led to the 
unauthorised transactions being made.
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable to hold Mr W liable for the loss that 
stemmed from this breach. Im satisfied that doing so is in line with the relevant 
regulations, as set out above. I also think Mr W would reasonably have known that 
sharing his card and PIN was a risk, and could result in the bank suffering a loss 
because of theft by someone else. Once details are shared, that brings them outside 
the account holders control. Overall, Im persuaded that the loss isnt too remote to 
fairly and reasonably hold Mr W liable.
Mr W thinks the account activity ought to have alerted Metro that something was 
wrong. But Im not persuaded it should have realised he was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. Neither individually, nor collectively, were the payments at such a level 
that I would have expected Metro to intervene. And they would have appeared less 
suspicious as they were being authenticated correctly by chip and PIN. So I dont 
agree that Metro ought to have stopped the payments. 
Whilst Mr W says the last payment was flagged as suspicious, but Metro still allowed 
it to go through, Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence to support this. I 
appreciate why Mr W can no longer provide the text he received  it was around two 
years ago. But as the person making the allegation, it falls to him to back this up. 
Metro has no record of flagging the payment. And based on the call records Ive seen 
from the time, I consider it more likely that the text was part of the banks call 
verification process  or that it related to payments attempted after Metro had 
blocked the account. 
I dont doubt that the payments Mr W is disputing were unauthorised. And I understand why 
hes therefore unhappy about being held responsible for them. But in the circumstances, 
bearing in mind the relevant regulations, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Metro liable for these.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman