DRN-2953219
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited recorded incorrect information about 
a claim on their motor insurance policy on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database and refused to change it. They wants CUE corrected and compensation for their 
stress and anxiety. 
What happened
Mr H was a named driver on Mrs Hs policy. Mr H was involved in an accident which was 
settled by Aviva as split liability. Four years later, Mrs H applied for insurance with another 
insurer. She was told that she hadnt disclosed a fault incident. Mr H said Aviva had 
recorded the fault claim on CUE with Mrs H as driver and this had caused the problem. 
Aviva said it had recorded Mr H as the driver and Mrs H as the policy holder. It said she 
should have disclosed the incident if asked to by the new insurer. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Aviva provided the 
CUE record that showed Mrs H as the policy holder and the driver as unknown. But its own 
records had Mr H as the driver. He thought Mrs H, as the policy holder, should have 
disclosed the claim to her new insurer. But she didnt do this. He thought this had caused the 
new insurer to question Mrs H. And so he thought Aviva wasnt responsible for the upset 
caused. 
Mr H was unhappy with this as he thought not recording him as the driver on CUE made it 
look as if he was hiding something. Aviva agreed to amend this on CUE. But Mr H wanted 
compensation for the upset caused. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided us with a copy of the letter sent by the other insurer to Mrs H about the 
undisclosed claim. This said Mrs H had been involved in a fault incident which hadnt been 
disclosed. It asked her to pay a small additional premium or to cancel the policy. 
Aviva has shown us what it recorded on its own file about the incident and what was 
recorded on CUE. Aviva had Mr H as the cars driver and Mrs H as the policy holder, which 
was correct. But the CUE database had Mrs H as the policy holder and the driver as 
unknown. 
Our approach is that if a consumers insurer has had to respond to a claim thats been made, 
then this must be recorded on CUE. Whoever was driving at the time should be noted on the 
record as the driver, but it would still be recorded on CUE as a claim against the consumers 
policy.
I dont know why Mr H wasnt recorded on CUE as the driver at the time of the incident. But 
Im satisfied that this didnt cause Mrs Hs new insurer to write to her. I can understand that 
Mrs H may not have understood this at the time. But Mrs H had a claim against her policy. 
And she should have disclosed this when asked when she took out her new policy. If Mrs H 
thinks that her new insurer asked an unclear question about previous claims, then she 
should complain to it. But I cant consider that here as its a separate business. 
So I cant say that Aviva not recording on CUE that Mr H was the driver in the incident led to 
her new insurer writing to Mrs H and causing upset. I can see that this has now been 
amended in response to Mr Hs request. And, as I cant say that Aviva made a mistake, I 
dont hold Aviva responsible for the distress experienced by Mr H and Mrs H. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman