DRN-4515598
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the quality of a car he acquired, using finance from Close 
Brothers Limited.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr O entered into a finance agreement with Close Brothers for a used car. 
Hes explained that the dealer carry out a service and change the cam belt. But when the car 
was delivered, there was no evidence these things had happened. As the dealer is no longer 
trading, Mr O complained to CBL. He also said some damage to the drivers side heater 
vent. 
An independent inspection was carried out, and CBL offered to pay for the vent to be 
repaired. But no faults were found with the car, and it would need to be partially dismantled if 
it were to be established whether or not there was a new cam belt.
Then, in February 2023, a new clutch and flywheel needed to be fitted. CBL wouldnt look 
into it, without evidence there was a fault present or developing at the point of supply. So, Mr 
O complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He agreed there were problems 
with the car, but thought these were due to normal wear and tear. He noted the car was 11 
years old and had 118,000 miles on the clock when it was supplied. So, it could reasonably 
be expected to have suffered notable wear and tear. And, Mr O had been able to travel 
around 3,000 miles before the issues with the clutch and flywheel presented themselves. 
Accordingly, he was satisfied that the car had been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
He then looked at what the dealer had said about carrying out a service and changing the 
cam belt. He saw that Mr Os representative had a text exchange with the dealer, to chase 
up the service. So, on balance, he thought this had been promised. But there was nothing to 
support whether the dealer said the cam belt would be changed. So, he thought it fair that 
CBL now cover the cost of a service.
As Mr O disagreed, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons he gave. Im 
satisfied that the issues were reasonable wear and tear, commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the car  particularly as Mr O was able to travel around 3,000 before the 
problems emerged.
As regards the cam belt, I can see no evidence of this being followed up. But the service 
was, so I think it likely this was promised.
Putting things right
To put things right, CBL should now cover the cost of having the car serviced, either by 
arranging this itself, or reimbursing Mr O for the reasonable costs of a standard service, 
upon him providing an invoice/receipt.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require 
Close Brothers Limited to take the actions set out above, in the section entitled Putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman