DRN-2248676
The complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave him 
loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Mr R between February 2016 and 
November 2017. Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Start date Date repaid Amount Instalments Highest 
repayment 
1 21/2/2016 31/8/2016 £250 6 months £115.66
2 5/9/2016 30/11/2016 £250 3 months £133.33
3 30/11/2016 1/6/2017 £500 6 months £203.33
4 22/11/2017 Sold to debt 
collector£750 6 months £347
Mr R said that his Mr Lender loans were far too easy to obtain. He told us that hed been 
using multiple lenders for a number of years and his credit rating was very poor.
When Mr R complained to Mr Lender, it made him a goodwill offer to try and resolve his 
complaint. Mr R didnt feel this offer went far enough overall to deal with his complaint so he 
asked us to investigate.
Our adjudicator initially felt it wasnt unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1 and 2 - but 
she said the repayments for loan 3 represented a significant proportion of Mr Rs income. So 
there was a significant risk that Mr R wouldnt have been able to make the repayment on 
loan 3 without having to borrow again  making the loan unsustainable for him. So she felt 
that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 3, or any further loans, to Mr R. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator and said it carried out proportionate checks before 
lending and that all the loans were affordable for Mr R. 
Our adjudicator considered everything that Mr Lender had said and changed her mind about 
loan 3. She now felt that she hadnt seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
about this loan  but still thought that it was reasonable to uphold loan 4.
We passed this revised view on to Mr Rs representatives  but we didnt hear anything 
further about what Mr R thought about what our adjudicator had said.
So as the complaint wasnt settled and Mr Lender asked for a review, this complaint came to 
me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr R. It asked him for details 
of his income and normal expenditure. And Mr Lender carried out checks on Mr Rs credit 
file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the 
information Mr R told Mr Lender about his income and outgoings and what Mr Lender had 
recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give him 
loans 1 and 2. 
It was early in the lending relationship and given the loan amounts and the information 
Mr Lender had recorded for Mr R, I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. As Mr R hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
these loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Looking at loan 3, I can see that this was a much more substantial loan amount. And Mr R 
took this loan out at the same time as he paid loan 2, without any break in the lending.
But I dont think these things alone necessarily showed that he was having money problems. 
At this early stage, Mr R had only been borrowing from Mr Lender for around 9 months or so. 
And although hed had some minor payment problems on loan 1, to my mind his track record 
with the lender wasnt enough to make Mr Lender realise that Mr R mightve had some 
underlying money problems. 
The information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Rs finances suggested that he was able 
to afford this borrowing.  
Overall, I havent seen enough for me to say that Mr Lender should reasonably have seen 
that it shouldve asked for more information or checked the information Mr R had declared 
before agreeing this loan. 
So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 3.
I agree with our adjudicator that, given the circumstances of Mr Rs case, Mr Lender should 
reasonably have seen that loan 4 was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have 
provided this loan. 
Mr R didnt ask Mr Lender for any more loans after he paid loan 3 at the start of June 2017 
until he applied for loan 4 towards the end of November 2017. 
Our adjudicator felt that gap in lending was long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think 
that Mr R mightve put his finances in order during this period. 
This meant that when his borrowing started again, and Mr R applied for loan 4, he was 
effectively starting over. So it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of 
borrowing and assess his lending requests accordingly.
I can see why our adjudicator and Mr Lender say this given that this was a break of almost 
6 months and there had previously been no, or no significant gap, in-between loans. But it 
makes no difference to the outcome.
I say this because when he asked for loan 4, Mr Lenders records show it relied on 
information showing that Mr Rs income was £1,270. 
This means that the monthly repayment he needed to make when he took out this loan 
(£347) worked out as more than a quarter of his take home pay just for this loan alone  and 
hed have to meet the contractual repayment schedule hed signed up to for this loan for 
6 months. 
So Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment Mr R had to make to pay loan 4 
was such a significant proportion of his spending money each month that in reality, this loan 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him (whether or not it was the start of a new 
chain of lending). 
So Mr Lender shouldnt have provided it to Mr R. I've taken into account that Mr Lender agrees that the loan repayment was effectively 58% of 
Mr Rs disposable income and 27% of his net income. So it considers the loan was 
affordable.
But, even if Mr Lender thought that the loan looked affordable on these figures, I dont think it 
shouldve provided this loan without making more in-depth enquiries into Mr Rs financial 
situation. I say this because what Mr R had said about his finances seemed to be 
significantly at odds with him needing to apply for the amount of loan 4. 
And had Mr Lender asked Mr R more detailed questions, for instance about his other 
borrowing, I can see from the credit file information hes sent us that its likely Mr Lender 
wouldve found out that he already had at least two other short-term loans from different 
providers, and he had recently defaulted on one of those by the time he asked for loan 4. 
Mr R also had a credit card with a defaulted balance dating back to the start of 2017. And he 
had a substantial balance and a record of payment problems on a credit facility provided to 
him by another high cost lender around 8 months or so before he applied for loan 4. 
So Mr Lender wouldve realised it was unlikely that this loan was going to be affordable for 
Mr R  and it shouldnt have provided it to him. 
For all these reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 4.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr Rs representative has asked for a breakdown of the information that our adjudicator 
relied on when changing her initial view that the complaint about loan 3 should be upheld.  
Mr Lender hasnt sent me anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive reviewed the case carefully in the light of the responses from Mr Rs representative. 
Our adjudicator first of all thought that the repayment for loan 3 represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Rs income and in those circumstances there was a significant risk that he 
wouldnt have been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. 
So, that led our adjudicator to think initially that it was unlikely Mr R wouldve been able to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 3. 
I explained in my provisional decision that the lender challenged our adjudicators initial 
opinion about loan 3 on the basis that it carried out proportionate checks and considered all 
the loans had been affordable for Mr R. 
This prompted our adjudicator to look again at loan 3.
And I can see that our adjudicator then wrote to Mr Rs representative to explain that she 
now felt that only loan 4 should be upheld on the basis that the repayment for the loan was a 
significant proportion of Mr Rs income.I think our adjudicator was right to revise her opinion about loan 3 because it seems clear 
that the information Mr Lender had recorded for Mr R, based on what hed told the lender, 
indicated that the repayments on loan 3 were not a significant proportion of his income. 
The loan repayments each month were around £203 and Mr Rs net income was £1,270. 
So it looks to me like the repayments were around just 16% of his take home pay  which 
I dont consider a sufficiently large proportion fairly to say that this shouldve prompted the 
lender to realise the loan wasnt affordable.  
And Ive explained in more detail in my provisional decision why I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 3  but why Im upholding Mr Rs 
complaint about loan 4. 
I appreciate that Mr R and his representative might still take a different view to me. But 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
Putting things right
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what I have 
outlined below. 
If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments of the principal.
B. If this results in Mr R having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr R with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" should be 
used to repay this. 
D. Any surplus should be paid to Mr R. 
E. And if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr R.
F. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Rs credit file for loan 4 once it is repaid  and 
ask the debt purchaser to do the same if necessary. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr R. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman