DRN-3387886
The complaint
Mr A says that the early repayment charge (ERC) he paid to redeem his mortgage with 
Yorkshire Building Society was unfair. He says he had to sell his property as he couldnt 
afford the mortgage, and  when hed taken out the fixed rate  hed been told the ERC 
would reduce each year.
What happened
In 2013 Mr A applied for a fixed rate mortgage with Yorkshire. The mortgage offer was 
issued in October 2013 and explained that if the mortgage was repaid before 30 November 
2023 an ERC would be applied, to a maximum of £9,100. The mortgage completed in 
November 2013.
In February 2021 Mr A sold the property and repaid his mortgage. He complained about the 
£3,900 ERC hed incurred.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying the ERC was set out clearly in the 
paperwork and Yorkshire had calculated it fairly. He said he was satisfied with the 
information Yorkshire provided about how it had decided what percentages to use for the 
ERC for the product.
Mr A didnt agree, and so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that I 
have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Mr As mortgage was repaid, there 
was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be 
repaid if Mr A paid an ERC.
Mr A has said that the adviser told him the ERC would reduce progressively, and he 
expected it to drop from 3% to 2%. Unfortunately theres nothing to show Mr A was told that 
at the time, and the contemporaneous paperwork that sets out the formal mortgage contract 
shows the ERC  at the time Mr A repaid his mortgage  was 3%. He says it is 
unreasonable to expect a lay person to notice that whilst the percentage reduced most 
years, it didnt in the year 2020.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our terms of reference to comment on, or 
otherwise determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. I have to consider 
this complaint by reference to Mr As particular situation. When I do that, Im satisfied the 
terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily 
understandable to Mr A; certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a manner 
that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Mr A knew  or at least should have 
known  how much hed have to pay if he repaid the mortgage at different times before 
30 November 2023.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB).
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Yorkshire is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it 
of Mr A ending his own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type.
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate.
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Yorkshire is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Yorkshire doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.
The ERC is expressed as a cash value in the mortgage offer. So Ive considered whether the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early.
Yorkshire has provided evidence to show how it pre-estimated the costs of this tranche of 
mortgages being repaid early. Under our rules I am allowed to accept evidence in 
confidence if it is appropriate to do so. I am satisfied that the information Yorkshire has 
provided is commercially sensitive and I have good reason to accept that in confidence and 
so I wont be disclosing it to Mr A.
The information from Yorkshire shows that it takes into account a number of factors when 
estimating the cost of a fixed rate mortgage being repaid. It has provided a breakdown of the 
figures it used and an explanation for the calculations and estimates it has made. It shows 
that the ERC reflects its costs of setting up and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the 
capital it has to set aside, the cost of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments 
that could be used to protect its position (and unwinding those) and its future losses. Ive 
looked carefully at what Yorkshire has said and provided and I consider it is a fair way to 
calculate the ERC.
Ive a great deal of sympathy for the position Mr A found himself in, but having considered all of the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman