DRN-3110011
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by FirstRand Bank Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo).
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or 
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
This was a used car and had already completed a little over 64,500 miles at the point 
it was supplied to Mr M. It was also a little over three years old and I would expect 
MotoNovo to take this into account when considering the damage to the car when it 
was returned to them having completed about a further 31,000 miles. 
Ive considered all the photographs of the damage that the inspector identified on the 
car against the BVRLA standard. 
oThe dented door  theres no detailed photograph of that dent and its 
therefore not possible to gauge whether it was present or how severe it was. I 
dont think MotoNovo have been reasonable when levying this charge and 
they should remove it.
oThe scratches to the bumper and bonnet. Inspectors will often include rulers 
in their inspection photographs to show the extent of any damage. The 
BVRLA guidance says scratches shouldnt be more than 25mm and must not 
have penetrated the primer. Its difficult to ascertain the length of the 
scratches as there isnt a ruler in the photographs but I dont think theyve 
penetrated the primer. Even if the damage was well evidenced I think 
MotoNovo should take into account that this was a six-year-old car at the 
point of inspection and its condition shouldnt be expected to be as good as a 
brand-new vehicle, it will have been subject to more wear and tear. The 
dealership havent been able to provide evidence of the condition of the car 
when it was supplied to Mr M but have explained there were some scratches. 
There still are and, on balance, I think the evidence doesnt support a charge 
for refurbishment.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should therefore waive the charges theyve asked Mr M to pay.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited to 
waive the refurbishment charges.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman