The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt collect a direct debit payment for 
his credit card account and also wrongly told him a late payment charge would apply.
What happened
Mr M had a direct debit set up on his account to take the minimum payment each month. On 
2 December 2019 he changed this online so that the full balance on the account would be 
taken. But no payment at all was taken by the due date of 10 December 2019. Mr M saw a 
letter about this when he returned from abroad in January 2020 saying that he would be 
charged a late payment fee of £12. By then a direct debit for the full balance had been taken 
on 4 January 2020.
Tesco said that an online message would have been displayed when Mr M changed the 
direct debit saying that he would receive confirmation on his statement when the direct debit 
was set up. And as this could take up to 30 days manual payments should be made. The 
balance on Mr Ms card account in December 2019 was £5  so it had decided to waive the 
fee. But it had wrongly still sent out a letter saying the fee would be charged. It paid Mr M 
£25 in compensation for this. But Tesco said that it hadnt made an error with the payment 
and that it had correctly reported a late payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Tesco do anything more. Mr M said that he hadnt 
seen an online message when he changed the direct debit. But he considered it most likely 
that this had been shown. Although Mr M had received an email before confirming his direct 
debit had been set up in May 2018 that didnt mean that Tesco should have emailed him this 
time. Mr M had changed the direct debit close to the payment date and there was insufficient 
time to implement this. The full balance was taken by direct debit the next month. He thought 
Tesco had responded appropriately to the error with the late payment fee and said we 
wouldnt be looking at its processes generally. Mr M had additionally complained that Tesco 
had still used his old mobile number to contact him but this was something he would need to 
raise with Tesco first.
Mr M didnt agree. He referred to the email he received in May 2018 when he set up a direct 
debit which then told him it could be up to 30 days before it would be active. And to the error 
with the late payment fee letter. He also said that Tesco had told him it would call back in 24 
hours when he complained and it didnt do so or discuss his complaint with him before its 
final response. Mr M saw this all as evidence of problems with its processes and so we 
shouldnt rely on what its said about an online message. He didnt think that more weight 
should be given to what Tesco said as this would be a gross injustice. He cannot evidence 
what didnt happen here and Tesco failed to collect any payment in December 2019.
DRN-1628921What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrated Mr M is at what happened. He says hes had a clear credit 
record and he wanted to make a payment in December 2019. So he thinks it unfair that his 
credit record is now damaged and doesnt think thats his mistake. I also understand why he 
thinks that the other problems hes had with Tesco should throw doubt on its version of what 
happened.
His account statement for the relevant month was dated 15 November 2019 and required 
the minimum payment to be made by 10 December 2019. It stated that this would be 
collected by direct debit. Here the minimum payment of £5 was by coincidence the account 
balance. Mr M amended the direct debit on 2 December 2019. He says he didnt see 
the message Tesco says would have been displayed.  But he doesnt say either that he 
saw any message confirming that the amended direct debit would be applied that month  or 
any email to confirm this. The email he refers to from May 2018 set out the timescales for a 
direct debit to be amended before  and those are the same applying here. Tesco says that 
an online statement dated 15 December 2019 would have been generated showing that the 
payment hadnt been made and confirming and giving advance notice that the full balance 
would be taken the following month by direct debit.
I note that the next month the direct debit payment was originated on 4 January 2020 and 
applied to the account on 6 January 2020  ahead of the due date of 10 January 2020. That 
shows that the change Mr M made in December was close to the likely planned collection 
date. And Im also satisfied that Tescos process remains  as it was in 2018 - to apply any 
change in the following months billing.
The discretion Tesco allowed in not applying the late payment fee and which was to Mr Ms 
advantage wasnt then reflected in its automated letter. He was liable for such a fee. I dont 
think this or the points he raises about complaint handling affect the core issue here of 
whether Tesco failed to collect the direct debit payment in December 2019. Tesco has 
added that it sent Mr M a text message on 27 January 2020 about his complaint. It issued a 
final response on 30 January 2020 and Mr M referred the matter to this service.
I have balanced all these factors in reaching my decision about whether Tesco made a 
mistake with the direct debit. I dont think that it did. The payment due in December 2019 
was late and thats what is showing on Mr Ms credit record. I dont have a reasonable basis 
to require Tesco to do anything more. I fully understand how disappointed Mr M will be by 
my findings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman