DRN-3238583
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the service received from Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) following a 
claim made under her property insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F is a leaseholder of a flat within a housing development. She pays towards an insurance 
policy with Zurich as part of her service charge. This policy is taken out in part for the benefit 
of Ms F and damage which might be caused to her flat that shed be responsible for.
In August 2020 Ms F noticed significant damp issues in her flat and this was reported to 
Zurich, the insurance provider. Following investigation into the cause, Zurich said that theyd 
pay for damage caused by the discovered leak. But they said the cause itself was from 
gradual wear and/or poor workmanship to a waste cap located under Ms Fs bath, and they 
said this wouldnt be covered as it was excluded under the policy. A second leak was also 
later discovered to the water tank, which was the responsibility of the freeholder to resolve 
and/or attempt to claim for under their insurance.
Due to the damage to her flat, Ms F was placed in alternative accommodation so repairs 
could be undertaken. However, the boiler in the alternative accommodation suffered with a 
loss of pressure which meant it stopped working on several occasions. Ms F subsequently 
said the alternative accommodation was uninhabitable, she moved out and asked Zurich to 
rehouse her elsewhere. 
Zurich disagreed that the alternative accommodation was uninhabitable and refused to 
provide further accommodation as a six-month tenancy agreement was already in place. But 
they recognised having a boiler with an intermittent issue would be disruptive, so they 
agreed to pay a disturbance allowance to Ms F. They also paid £300 compensation for 
communication issues, and the amount of time to taken to review the complaint.
Ms F approached this service during the early stages of the claim.
Our investigator looked into things, and he issued several assessments on the complaint. 
This is because the claim position kept changing and moving on. In his first assessment, he 
said Zurich hadnt reasonably shown the exclusion to decline cover for the waste cap 
applied. So, he recommended that Zurich should reconsider things, and carry out a further 
investigation. He also said he couldnt hold Zurich responsible for the freeholders delay in 
repairing the water tank. He said in his view the alternative accommodation wasnt 
uninhabitable and Zurich had acted fairly in paying a disturbance allowance generally.
An agreement couldnt be reached at first. Zurich disagreed with the recommendation to 
revisit and investigate the waste cap. And Ms F didnt agree with the investigators view of 
the alternative accommodation.  As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was 
going to progress to an ombudsman for review at that point. However, following further 
correspondence, Zurich agreed to carry out a further inspection as recommended. But Ms F 
refused to allow this to go ahead.
Ms F engaged legal representation, who then confirmed that the inspection could go ahead 
as suggested. This was completed, and the cause of the waste cap leak was concluded as 
poor workmanship, so Zurich maintained their position on it being excluded. 
Ms Fs legal representative on her behalf said she accepted the findings of the waste cap 
report and that its not covered under her insurance policy. Ms F referred this back to the 
freeholder to resolve before insurance repairs could be continued. However, Ms Fs legal 
representative outlined that the outstanding issue which shed like an ombudsman to decide 
is the duration payable for the disturbance allowance. Ms F believes Zurich should pay it for 
a longer period than they have done.
Our investigator hadnt issued his findings on this point, so he looked at this element further. 
He concluded that the period Zurich had paid disturbance allowance for was fair and 
reasonable. Therefore, he didnt ask Zurich to increase this.
Ms F didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where Ive referenced actions by Zurich, Im also referring to other agents appointed by and 
acting on behalf of Zurich during the claim.
As mentioned above, since the complaint first came to us, things have moved on and 
developed. Ive briefly summarised the key points of the background and what happened 
above. But I dont intend on commenting on every individual event which occurred as both 
parties are already aware. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, but as things 
have moved on, Ill instead focus on what Ms F and her legal representative specifically have 
said remains in dispute, and thats the disturbance allowance duration. And Ill also comment 
on some other specific points I think are important in reaching a fair and reasonable decision 
in all the circumstances of the case. 
But having said that, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information 
theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
I also note that Ms F is unhappy with Zurichs communication and handling of things with the 
freeholder for part of the claim and repairs they are responsible for. This relates to a leak 
from the main water tank, which caused damage to Ms Fs property and impacted on the 
repairs being able to be started. But Im not able to hold Zurich responsible for the actions or 
delays caused by the freeholder. And Im not able to consider any insurance claim the 
freeholder made to Zurich, as that would be between those two parties.Following the claim and damage being reported by Ms F, and Zurich carrying out an 
inspection which included a dye leak detection test, it was thought that the waste cap under 
her bath was causing the leak and consequential damage. Zurich accepted damage caused 
by the leak and said it would be covered, but they said the waste cap itself wouldnt be. They 
said the issue with the waste cap was due to poor workmanship and/or wear and tear, which 
is excluded under Ms Fs policy.
Our investigator didnt agree that Zurich had demonstrated the exclusion applied. He said 
the report didnt make specific findings which showed wear and tear and/or poor 
workmanship. He noted the policy covered the broader event of accidental damage and in 
the absence of the exclusion being sufficiently demonstrated, he said Zurich should 
reinspect the waste cap and reconsider the claim. 
After initial disagreement with this, both parties later agreed to this reinspection. Zurich 
carried out a more detailed investigation as the property had been stripped out which 
allowed them to fully access the waste cap. This enabled Zurich to conclusively evidence 
faulty workmanship to the waste cap. Our investigator was persuaded by these findings and 
that it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to rely on the exclusion to decline the waste cap 
specifically. Ms F, via her legal representative, accepts this conclusion based on the new 
investigation and referred this back to her freeholder to resolve, (and potentially try and claim 
for) before repairs could then be continued to her flat.
So, this point is no longer in dispute and I dont need to decide that here. But it wasnt only 
the waste cap causing the leak and consequential damage to Ms Fs flat. At first it was 
thought it was, but following strip out works being completed, it was discovered there was a 
leak from the mains water tank in an adjacent room, which was affecting Ms Fs property and 
causing damage. From the information provided, this is the responsibility of the freeholder to 
fix. Whilst Ms F is unhappy with Zurich and the freeholders handling of the repairs to this, Im 
not able to hold Zurich responsible for delays caused by the freeholder. But I can see Zurich 
chased the freeholder for confirmation that the water tank was fixed, so they could proceed 
with repairs to Ms Fs flat.
The main point in dispute that Ms F wants me to decide is the duration shes been given a 
disturbance allowance for. So, Ill consider this below, along with how this became payable.
Due to the damage caused at Ms Fs flat, it was deemed uninhabitable as it needed to be 
stripped out to repair. Therefore, Ms F was provided with alternative accommodation which 
is covered under her policy. 
Initially Ms F provided details of a property for alternative accommodation. However, Zurich 
didnt agree to this on the basis of cost and that Ms F had a one-bedroom property, and the 
alternative accommodation she proposed had two bedrooms. Ms F found another suitable 
property in her development which Zurich accepted (albeit this was also two bedroom) and a 
six-month tenancy agreement was arranged. 
Ms F reported that the boiler in her alternative accommodation had repeated issues of 
pressure loss, which had caused it to stop working a number of times. The landlord arranged 
for an engineer to attend to identify the issue. However, the loss of pressure continued to 
happen intermittently. Ms F says this meant she didnt have heating or hot water on several 
occasions. The landlord showed Ms F how she could refill the boiler herself, but Ms F didnt 
want to do this, as she says she wasnt comfortable doing so for health and safety reasons.
Due to the repeated boiler issues, Ms F said the alternative accommodation was 
uninhabitable. And she wanted to terminate or dissolve the tenancy agreement and for 
Zurich to provide different alternative accommodation.Zurich liaised with the landlord, who carried out and arranged further investigations. But the 
landlord didnt agree that the property was uninhabitable, so they didnt agree to end or 
dissolve the tenancy agreement as Ms F had asked. Zurich also didnt agree the property 
was uninhabitable, and as the tenancy agreement was already in place until March 2021, 
they refused to provide further different alternative accommodation until that time.
Ms F decided to leave the alternative accommodation toward the end of November 2020 and 
moved in with a relative. Ms F says she had to leave the alternative accommodation as she 
maintains it was uninhabitable due to the issues with the boiler. She also maintains the 
tenancy agreement shouldve been dissolved due to the landlords breach of it. 
As explained by our investigator, our role isnt to determine the enforceability of the tenancy 
agreement or whether it was binding or had been breached by either party. Instead, I need 
to consider whether Zurich took a fair and reasonable approach by saying the alternative 
accommodation wasnt uninhabitable, and subsequently refusing to provide further different 
alternative accommodation until the tenancy agreement ended.
Having considered everything, I dont think the position taken by Zurich was unreasonable 
here. This is because I dont agree the alternative accommodation was uninhabitable. The 
issue with losing pressure was intermittent. And the landlord attempted to resolve this when 
reported and also explained how this could be resolved. So, I dont think Zurich acted 
unreasonably by failing to provide further different alternative accommodation on the basis 
the property was uninhabitable. 
Instead, following further discussion, Zurich recognised the issue with the boiler would cause 
disruption even though the property was habitable. Consequently, they agreed to pay Ms F 
£20 per day disturbance allowance backdated to 24 November 2020. 
Ms F says this shouldve been paid up until 27 March 2021, which is when the six-month 
tenancy agreement ended, and she moved to different alternative accommodation covered 
under her policy by Zurich. She says it should be for the full period on the basis she says the 
property was uninhabitable for the entire duration. Zurich said it would only pay up to 
15 January 2021. This is when they say the boiler issue was confirmed as resolved and 
Ms F couldve returned to the alternative accommodation without facing further disruption 
with the boiler. But Ms F decided not to return.
The dispute I need to decide therefore is how long it is fair and reasonable for Zurich to pay 
the disturbance allowance for.
As I said above, I dont think the property was uninhabitable on the basis the issue with the 
boiler was intermittent. But I do agree it would have been disruptive. The issue Ms F was 
experiencing with the boiler was due to low pressure, which was being caused by the mains 
water tank leak. But after Ms F moved out, the water supply to Ms Fs and other flats was 
diverted from the damaged water tank direct to the mains supply, so the freeholder could 
investigate the water tank issue further.
Zurich says that pressure issues were resolved when the water supply was diverted, and 
consequently that wouldve resolved the issues being experienced with the boiler in the 
alternative accommodation. Ms F has said she thinks pressure issues would have still 
continued. But she didnt return to the alternative accommodation or actually experience 
that, or provide evidence of this, instead shes hypothesised that it was likely. However, the landlord and loss adjuster appointed by Zurich visited Ms Fs alternative 
accommodation, shortly after the water supply had been diverted. They confirmed the boiler 
was working, and the property had heating and hot water and wasnt suffering from pressure 
issues. Whilst Ms F has said that there hasnt been any reports produced to show the boiler 
was working, she also hasnt provided any reports to show it wasnt. Instead shes given her 
suspicions that it wouldnt have been. But both the loss adjuster and landlord actually 
attended and confirmed the boiler was working, and Im persuaded by this.
So, on balance I think its most likely the pressure issues were resolved when the water 
supply was diverted to the mains, shortly before Zurich inspected and confirmed the boiler 
was working and there were no further issues. On this basis, I think the period Zurich paid 
for disturbance allowance (24 November 2020 to 15 January 2021) is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. As the boiler issue was, on balance, most likely resolved at that point, 
there was no further disruption to pay a disturbance allowance for and Ms F couldve 
returned but decided not to. With this in mind, Im not going to ask Zurich to increase this 
amount or pay it for the longer period until the end of the tenancy agreement in March 2021.
As outlined, the claim has developed and moved on since the case first came to us. And 
some issues first raised, such as the waste cap, are no longer in dispute. Ms F has copied 
this service into a number of emails with various parties in relation to her claim. She said this 
gives wider examples of how Zurich have in her view been unsupportive overall throughout. 
Amongst other things, shes also said shes unhappy that Zurich wont pay for her TV licence 
at the new alternative accommodation and delays in paying bills at the new property. And 
with Zurich not confirming what legal cover shes entitled to when requested. However, Ms F 
hasnt formally raised a complaint(s) with Zurich about these or any outstanding issues shes 
unhappy with and they havent investigated her complaint(s) or issued their response to 
those concerns.
As explained by our investigator, the alternative accommodation (both whether it was 
habitable and disturbance allowance payable) and waste cap elements were part of the 
original complaint brought to this service and Zurich has considered these points and given 
their response. So, Ive considered those points and issues here. And Zurich also paid £300 
compensation for events up to that time, for communication issues and time taken, which 
alongside the disturbance allowance, I think was reasonable in the circumstances. 
But if there any other issues Ms F is unhappy with (such as the TV licence, delays in paying 
utility bills, providing legal cover information or specific service issues) then shed need to 
raise these with Zurich to investigate in the first instance as outlined by our investigator.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman