DRN-4460812
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a claim he made on his AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) business
protection insurance policy for damage to his property by his former tenants.
Mr B is unhappy about the excesses applied to his claims and about the sum offered to him 
in respect of a damaged piano.
What happened
Mr B says his property was damaged by his tenant. As a result, he made a claim on his AXA 
business protection insurance policy for cover to rectify the damage caused.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to consider Mr Bs claims. The subject of this complaint is the 
number of excesses applied to the claims hes made as well as the sum offered to him in 
respect of a damaged piano. Mr B is unhappy with both of those things.
AXA said they relied on the advice of a specialist when settling the cost of the piano so they 
dont agree that any further sums should be paid to Mr B in respect of this. They also said 
they reduced the number of excesses legitimately applicable to the number of claims made 
with a view to reaching a fairer outcome for Mr B from fifteen to eleven. Unhappy, Mr B 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that AXA was entitled to rely on the specialist advice it received in respect of the valuation of 
the piano and Mr B agreed to accept this amount in any event. She also thought that AXA 
was entitled to apply the excesses it had as they accorded with the policy terms. Mr B 
doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive explained why under the headings 
below. In doing so I havent addressed each and every one of the submissions Mr B has 
made. Thats not intended to be disrespectful to him- rather it represents the informal nature 
of the service we provide.
Piano
The advice AXA took in respect of the piano was it was beyond restoration. The claim was 
valued at between £3,000-£3,500. It was noted in the advice that this type of piano was no 
longer made and that it was at the bottom end of the market. They recommended a valuation 
of £3,250 on that basis. At the time AXA offered Mr B £3,000 in respect of his claim for 
damage to the piano. Mr B says he didnt accept this amount, but AXA says he didnt object 
to it either.  Mr B has asked for evidence of his acceptance of this amount. I dont have 
anything specific from Mr B accepting the sum offered, but I dont think thats necessary for 
me to determine the issue. 
AXAs position is that they would always offer the lowest amount given on a valuation 
because that represents the indemnity theyre offering. As such they offered and paid Mr B 
£3,000 in respect of his claim. It wasnt until eighteen months after AXAs loss adjuster told 
Mr B what they were offering him in respect of this and after payment was made, that Mr B 
sought a revised payment of £3,200 plus VAT as well as the cost of transport of the piano. 
AXA declined to pay anything further.
Mr B has since produced something from his own expert to say the piano could be repaired 
at a cost of over £5,000. Ive considered this and everything Mr B has said, including the fact 
that he cant now replace the piano because its no longer available, but I dont think AXA 
need to do anything further. The policy terms cover accidental damage to Mr Bs contents in 
the property, subject to an excess of £100. The policy also goes on to say:
"Your insurer will at their option repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property, 
subject to the appropriate excess...your insurer is entitled to assess your claim based on our, 
an approved supplier's or loss adjuster's view and interpretation."
Im satisfied that AXA acted within their policy terms when considering everything Mr B had 
said. And although I appreciate why Mr B would prefer for his piano to be repaired by his 
own expert, I cant say AXA need to do this because the cost of doing so considerably 
outweighs the quotation they obtained. The sum AXA have offered is in line with that. And 
although I appreciate they could have offered Mr B £200 more, they werent obliged to do so.
Policy excesses
From what Ive seen, AXAs final position was that they had agreed to apply eleven 
excesses to the claims made by Mr B which are numerous and span a number of items and 
rooms. 
The policy terms say that Mr B needs to pay an excess for The first amount of any claim for 
which you are responsible. So, the excesses payable are in relation to each individual 
claim. That means that Mr B would be paying an excess in relation to each individual item of 
damage he was claiming for.
Mr B says that AXA agreed to deal with his claims by area and that there were four areas of 
damage which reflected the number of rooms they related to and as such only four excesses 
are applicable. Hes asked AXA for at transcript of the telephone conversation he says he 
had with them about this. Whilst I dont have a copy of the transcript, I do have a telephone 
note of the call Mr B might to be referring to. That note is dated January 2021 and says:
Call from insured to advise he has found more damage. He is currently abroad and was 
initially made aware of the original areas of damage by the managing agent, who sent him 
pictures when the tenants had moved out. Someone has since gone in to start rectifying the 
damage and made insured aware of more areas of damage including ink marks on the sofa, 
torn curtain linings, damage to a divan bed and staining on the back of a leather chair.
There are already 4 ongoing claims for damage that was noticed when the tenants moved
out: carpets, drawing on walls, glass in the porch and for the hob.
IIL are instructed to deal with the carpet claim, and BVS dealing with the other three. I have
agreed to appoint a loss adjuster to deal with all areas of damage, who will then report back
to us to advise how many claims/how many excesses should apply.From what I can see, the note indicates that AXA were intending to appoint their loss 
adjuster to determine how the excesses should be applied. The loss adjuster recommended 
that each incident be treated as a separate claim with a separate excess as they resulted 
from separate acts of damage during the course of Mr Bs tenants five-year tenancy. And 
whilst the claims were grouped together into four areas or rooms, each claim for damage 
was treated separately. That amounted to fifteen excesses being payable. Despite that AXA 
agreed to reduce the number of excesses payable down by four because they were 
conscious of the impact this would have on Mr Bs future premiums, and they thought the 
amount he had to pay was excessive. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances and 
goes beyond what AXA were required to do in accordance with the policy terms. So, I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
Finally, I know Mr B wants a legal determination of the policy terms that apply to his claims. 
He isnt obliged to accept the findings in this decision. If he chooses not to, he is free to 
pursue the matter through the Courts. For the avoidance of doubt, my view of his claims 
would be unlikely to be affected by a legal opinion because the interpretation of the policy 
terms is a matter for this Service to determine.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman