DRN-3406466
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined her travel 
insurance claim. Shes also unhappy because she believes the travel policy has been mis-
sold.
Any reference to AIG includes its agents.
Miss H is being represented by her mother, Mrs H, on this complaint. 
What happened
Miss H bought a single trip travel insurance policy when she booked her flights to the United 
Arab Emirates (UAE). The policy start date was 3 November 2020 and the underwriter is 
AIG. Miss H departed on 3 November 2020 and arrived in the UAE on 4 November 2020.
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO)  
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), advised against all but
essential travel to all destinations worldwide, including the UAE. This advice remained in 
place until the departure date and beyond.
Miss H unfortunately twisted her knee on the day of her arrival and sought medical 
treatment. She also had to visit a consultant on 18 November 2020 for further medical 
treatment for the injury. Miss H paid for the treatment and once shed returned to the UK, 
she submitted a claim to AIG for the cost of the medical expenses.
AIG assessed the claim and declined it. AIG said there is an exclusion on the policy 
regarding claims where a government agency has advised against all but essential travel to 
a specific country. It said as the FCDO had advice in place against all but essential travel to 
the UAE on the day of Miss Hs departure, the claim had been declined.
With regards to the sale of the policy, AIG said Miss H had the 14-day cooling-off period and 
if she was not happy with the policy, she had the option to cancel it. AIG said, however, that 
as a gesture of goodwill, it would refund the premium Miss H had paid.
Unhappy with AIGs decision, Miss H brought the complaint to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms, conditions and exclusions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Miss Hs policy as this forms the basis 
of her insurance contract with AIG.
The General Exclusions section of the policy on page 13 and 14 sets out that there wont be 
cover under the policy for those items listed under that section. These apply to all sections of 
the policy. One of those listed is:
[]
12. Any claim resulting from you travelling to a specific country or to an area where 
an official government agency have advised against all (but essential) travel. This 
exclusion applies to Section C (Medical and other expenses) and Section D 
(Personal Accident) only. 
[]
Miss H travelled to the UAE on 3 November 2020 and at this point there was advice in place 
from the FCDO against all but essential travel to that destination. So, based on the above 
the exclusion on her policy, there is no cover. Additionally, Miss Hs claim relates to medical 
expenses and for this, theres also no cover. Im satisfied therefore that the claim has not 
been declined unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of what happened here. 
Was the exclusion applied fairly?
I acknowledge Miss Hs comments that she isnt a British National and therefore the 
exclusion doesnt apply to her. 
The advice said:
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office currently advises British nationals against all
but essential international travel. This advice is being kept under constant review.
The policy is designed to provide cover for trips for policyholders travelling from the UK and 
returning to the UK. The policy provides a definition of a trip. This says a trip must start and 
end in the country of residence for cover to apply on the policy.
Ive thought about what this means in Miss Hs circumstances. The policy she took out is one 
that was issued in the UK and the insurer is registered and authorised in the UK and is a 
member of the Association of British Insurers (ABI). The advice against all but essential 
travel applied to everyone intending on travelling at the time, regardless of their nationality. 
Also, cover on the policy represents the level of risk the insurer was providing. In this case, 
theres an exclusion that theres no cover for a claim resulting from travel to a specific 
country where an official government agency has advised against all but essential travel. 
Miss H was a resident of the UK and therefore, regardless of her nationality, I cant see why 
the exclusion wouldnt apply in the circumstances here. She took out the policy with the 
intention of having cover while she travelled to the UAE. She was a resident of the UK and her plan was to return to the UK. Her nationality isnt relevant in the circumstances here. I 
therefore dont think the exclusion has been applied unfairly. 
Was the policy mis-sold?
I can see that Miss H purchased the policy alongside her flight ticket to the UAE. No advice 
was provided to Miss H. It would have been her responsibility to ensure she read the policy 
documents provided with the sale and to ensure it suited her needs. She would also have 
had a 14-day cooling off period which would have given her the option to cancel the policy 
within that time. 
The exclusion applied to Miss Hs claim has been clearly stated under the General 
Exclusions section of the policy. It also clearly states that the exclusion applies to medical 
expenses. I appreciate the claim relates to medical expenses and this is what is excluded 
under Miss Hs policy. However, Im not persuaded the policy has been mis-sold and AIG 
hasnt done anything incorrectly in the selling of the policy that would mean it now ought to 
settle the claim. 
Conclusion
Overall, Im satisfied Miss Hs claim hasnt been declined unfairly or unreasonably. Im also 
satisfied the policy hasnt been mis-sold by AIG. As such, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask AIG to accept the claim. 
I understand AIG has offered to refund the cost of the policy to Miss H as a gesture of 
goodwill. Should Miss H decide to accept this, she should contact AIG directly. It follows that 
I dont require AIG to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint against American 
International Group UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman