DRN-2876602
The complaint
Mr B complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in relation to 
when he sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2019, Mr B was unfortunately the victim of a 
scam. He believed he was dealing with a representative of a genuine investment firm and 
decided to invest. 
On 25 January 2019 Mr B sent £20,000 from his account with his own bank S to the 
account details hed been provided with by the scammer. The money was paid into an 
account held with RBS. A couple of weeks later Mr B realised that he may have been the 
victim of a scam and reported this to S. 
S in turn got in touch with RBS and notified them that Mr Bs payment to their customer had 
been made as the result of a scam. RBS investigated but said that by the time they were 
notified, all of Mr Bs money had already been withdrawn from the account, so there was 
nothing that could be returned. Mr B complained to RBS, he was unhappy that they had 
allowed a scammer to open and operate an account. He says he was told that the account 
had its own account manager and so he thinks funds were likely available. 
RBS ultimately declined to reimburse Mr B, they said his funds had already been spent 
before they were notified of a problem with his payment and whilst they sympathised with 
Mr Bs position, they didnt believe they were liable for his loss. Mr B remained unhappy and 
the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators thought there were limits as to how much of Mr Bs complaint we 
could consider within our jurisdiction. And for what she could consider, she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman review his 
complaint. 
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained our service could only 
consider how RBS responded to Mr Bs allegation of fraud. In broad summary this was due 
to a change in our jurisdiction that was introduced which in certain circumstances allows 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) fraud to complain about the bank that received 
their funds. But this change was specific to acts or omissions that took place on or after 
31 January 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr B has been the victim of a cruel scam, particularly with such a large 
amount of money involved. I dont doubt the significant impact this must have had on him 
and his family. But it would only be fair for me to direct RBS to reimburse his loss if (within 
the context of my jurisdiction to consider this complaint) I think they can fairly be held liable 
for it. For the reasons Ill explain, I dont think they are. 
Mr Bs funds arrived in the beneficiary account on 28 January 2019. By the end of the 
following day all of his money and all the available funds in that account had already been 
withdrawn or transferred from that account. Im not able to share the specific details of this 
with Mr B as he would like, but Ive seen the statements for the beneficiary account and am 
satisfied this is the case. 
RBS were first notified that Mr Bs payment had been made as a result of a scam after the 
funds hed paid into the account in January 2019 had been spent. So there was no 
opportunity for RBS to recover Mr Bs money  it had already gone from the account. 
Because of this, I cant fairly say that the way in which RBS responded to the APP scam 
negatively impacted upon whether Mr B was able to recover any of his loss from the 
beneficiary account. By 21 February 2019 Mr B had been told by his own bank that they 
hadnt been able to recover any money from the beneficiary bank. So, I similarly dont think 
RBS did anything to mismanage Mr Bs expectations. 
Again, Im sorry Mr B has been a victim in this way, but because I dont think RBS response 
to the alleged APP fraud negatively impacted on what could be recovered, Im not going to 
tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman