DRN-3852988
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the administration of her re-mortgage application to Darlington 
Building Society, as it took over a year from application to advance. This resulted in her 
remaining with her existing interest-only mortgage for longer than she needed to, the interest 
rate product she had applied for ceased to be available, and the replacement was for a 
higher fixed rate of interest. 
In settlement of the complaint, Mrs L would like Darlington to refund the fees she paid for the 
re-mortgage of £1,400.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs L had an interview with a mortgage adviser at Darlington. She had 
an existing interest-only mortgage with another lender, which was being charged interest at 
that lenders standard variable rate (SVR). The existing mortgage was approaching the end 
of its term and Mrs L has confirmed that she didnt have a way of repaying it. As such, she 
wanted to re-mortgage on a repayment basis with Darlington over a term of 22 years. At that 
time, Darlington didnt have any fixed interest rate products available to Mrs L, and so the 
mortgage was to be arranged on its SVR.
Mrs L was asked to provide various documents relating to identification, income, and her 
projected pension income. The last of the initial information requested was received by 
Darlington on 1 February 2021 and the application was submitted to be underwritten on 
5 February 2021. 
Due to the term into retirement, additional information was needed to evidence how the 
mortgage would be paid beyond retirement. Original identification documents were also 
required. This information was all received by 13 May 2021 and referred to be assessed on 
25 May 2021. 
Darlington reviewed the application and sent it back to the mortgage adviser for further 
information about Mrs Ls pension, but the mortgage adviser didnt act on the instructions. 
This didnt happen until after Mrs L chased Darlington on 9 August 2021. Due to the delay, 
Mrs L was required to attend another mortgage interview and provide her identification and 
income documents again. 
On 18 August 2021 Mrs Ls second meeting with the mortgage adviser happened. It was 
explained that there were now two fixed interest rate products available to her: a three-year 
rate of 4.39% or a five-year rate of 4.49%. Mrs L opted for the five-year rate and her 
application was resubmitted. The fees for the mortgage and interest rate product of £1,119 
were to be added to the mortgage. The application was submitted the same day.
The pension information Darlington had wanted May 2021 was received on 3 September 
2021. Following this some further information was requested and supplied by Mrs L. The 
application was accepted, and a mortgage offer issued on 27 October 2021. The mortgage 
was advanced on 17 December 2021. 
Darlington upheld the complaint and offered Mrs L £150 compensation for the errors that 
had occurred and the poor service she had received.  It acknowledged that there was a 
delay between May and August 2021 that was due to its inaction. 
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with the offer Darlington made and referred her complaint to us. 
Following this, Darlington review its conclusions and issued a further final response letter. It 
set out further detail of what had happened and when, and apologised again for the errors 
made and the service Mrs L had received. It also apologised that the full circumstances of 
the complaint hadnt been considered when it had originally been considered. Darlington 
increased its offer to £500.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, and he recommended that it be upheld. 
He concluded that, but for Darlingtons mistakes, the mortgage would have completed in 
May 2021. As such, he considered Darlington should completed a financial assessment to 
determine if Mrs L had suffered a financial loss due to the delay in the re-mortgage and 
having to pay an additional six months of interest-only payments to the previous lender. 
Darlington responded by confirming that it didnt agree that the mortgage could have 
completed in May 2021. It also set out the various elements contained in its offer of £500:
£50 for staff member error in May 2021
£50 for the complaint not being investigated thoroughly and Mrs L having to escalate it.
£100 for the additional branch visit and the new application and follow up activities.
£50 for the inconvenience of having to provide further documentation for the new 
application.
£200 for the distress the process caused Mrs L
£50 for the additional interest that would be incurred due to no capital having been paid 
off the mortgage.
Darlington highlighted that during the period of the delay, Mrs L was paying lower mortgage 
payments than she would have been had the re-mortgage progressed and completed as it 
should have. It confirmed that it believed the re-mortgage took between three and six 
months longer to complete than it did. It asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
The investigator considered what Darlington had said. He concluded that during the period 
of the delay, as Mrs L would have been paying a higher rate of interest on the mortgage with 
Darlington, she probably hadnt suffered a financial loss. However, he concluded that as the 
mortgage should have completed in May 2021, Mrs L should be allowed to overpay her 
mortgage by the amount of five monthly payments, to reduce the term, without incurring any 
charges. 
Mrs L repeated that she wanted the fees added to her mortgage refunded, and asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Darlington also disagreed with the 
investigators findings and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2022, setting out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I have considered the delays that occurred in this case. It is clear that there was the delay 
between 25 May 2021 when Mrs L should have been asked for more information and 
9 August 2021 when she contacted Darlington to ask what was happening. This is 
appropriately 11 weeks. The information that was needed at that time appears to have been 
received on 3 September 2021, around four weeks after it was asked for. Had there not been a delay in asking for the information, I think it reasonable to say that the information 
would have been received in the fourth week of June 2021. 
Further information, which had not previously been asked for, was then asked for on two 
occasions. During the further assessment of the first responses, it appears there was 
another week of delays. Once those queries were answered on 1 October 2021, the 
valuation was commissioned, and the application accepted when it was returned as 
confirming Mrs Ls property was suitable security. 
Based on the actual times it took for the various enquiries and activities that needed to be 
completed, I am satisfied that, but for the delays caused by Darlington, the mortgage offer 
would likely have been issued at the beginning of August and the mortgage completed in the 
second half of September 2021  around three months earlier than it did. 
During those three months Mrs L continued to pay her existing mortgage. As the mortgage 
was on an interest-only basis and a lower rate of interest, the payments were around £60 
less than what she would have been paying to Darlington. Given this, I dont consider that 
she suffered a financial loss in those three months, given that she paid out less than she 
would have if shed been paying the Darlington mortgage. However, it does mean that Mrs 
Ls new mortgage will be paid off three months later than it otherwise would have been.
When considering redress we aim to place a consumer in as close a financial position as 
possible to that which they would have been in had the mistake by the lender not happened. 
In this case that would be for the mortgage to have started and ended around three months 
earlier. Had the original application gone through, Mrs L would have been paying a higher 
rate of interest from the outset, so the delay has meant that she paid less interest monthly 
during the period of the delay. However, she would also have paid a small amount of capital 
off the mortgage in the initial three months, although not much, which would have reduced 
the amount of interest being paid on an ongoing basis. So Mrs L has both benefitted from 
the delay and been disadvantaged by it. Given the sums involved I think it likely that she 
has, overall, benefitted in relation to the amount of interest she will pay, but I note that 
Darlington has included £50 in its offer to her for any additional interest. I think this is a fair 
offer in the circumstances. 
If Mrs L, within six months of my final decision, wishes to reduce the capital balance to the 
level it would have been at the point she makes the payment, Darlington should allow her to 
do so without any early repayment charge applying. If that happens, Mrs L should be given 
the choice to maintain the same level of payment for the remainder of the fixed rate product 
term to facilitate the repayment of the mortgage by the point it should have been paid off but 
for the delay. At the end of the term, it would be for Mrs L to discuss her payments and the 
duration of them with Darlington.
Darlington has accepted the level of service it provided Mrs L with, including the assessment 
of her concerns, wasnt what it should have been. Its offered £450 compensation for the 
worry and inconvenience she suffered. Given the timescales involved, I think this is a 
reasonable sum in the circumstances.
Mrs L has asked that the fees she paid for the mortgage to be refunded. I dont consider that 
would be appropriate. Those fees were paid in order for her to obtain a mortgage and the 
fixed interest rate product she wanted. She received both of those things and so it is 
reasonable that she has to pay for them.
Mrs L responded to my provisional decision saying that her point was that she could have 
been on a repayment mortgage almost a year sooner. She said the service she received 
was atrocious, she wasnt kept up to date with what was going on and she had to call Darlington to get updates. Her understanding is that the fees were charged for admin and 
arranging the product; as these arrangements were not carried out effectively in a 
professional manner, the fees should be refunded.
Darlington confirmed that it had received the provisional decision and it had no additional 
information it wanted considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs L believes that the re-mortgage could have completed almost a year before it 
did. I considered before I issued my provisional decision when it was likely that the 
re-mortgage would have completed if the mistake by Darlington hadnt happened. I have 
reconsidered the evidence, but I remain satisfied that the error caused a much shorter delay 
of around three months. 
As Mrs L was aware that she was paying less than she would have been paying Darlington, 
she could have set aside the difference, and the redress set out in my provisional decision 
would allow her to reduce the outstanding capital to the level the mortgage would have had, 
but for the mistake. If she does that and then maintains the mortgage payments set under 
the fixed rate, along with the interest payment made by Darlington as part of its offer, she will 
be in the same position as she would have been in had the delay in completion not 
happened. It would be for Mrs L to discuss the further arrangements for the term and 
ongoing payments when she reached the end of the fixed interest rate term.
While I can understand why Mrs L would like the application and product fees to be 
refunded, I remain satisfied that this would not be appropriate. As I said in my provisional 
decision, the fees were paid in order for Mrs L to have a mortgage and a special interest rate 
product, both of which she received. The £450 offered for the poor service and 
administration is a suitable offer in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I am satisfied that the offer Darlington 
Building Society made adequately compensates Mrs L for the any additional interest she 
might pay on the mortgage and the worry and inconvenience the delays caused. In addition, 
it should allow Mrs L to reduce the capital balance of the mortgage and maintain her existing 
monthly payments in order to effectively reduce the term, as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman