DRN-3583843
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax told him he couldnt qualify for a 
mortgage with only a 5% deposit, because of his credit file. But it now says it will only lend 
on the property he wants to buy if he can pay a 15% deposit.
What happened
Mr A told us he applied for a mortgage on a shared ownership property. He said Halifaxs 
website made clear that it would accept a 5% deposit. But when he went through his 
application, Halifax said hed need to pay a 15% deposit, because of his credit history. But 
he checked his credit history, and everything was up to date. So he challenged Halifax, and 
it then said he had been given the wrong information. There was no problem with his credit 
file, but 15% is the minimum deposit Halifax will accept on a shared ownership property.
Mr A wanted Halifax to give him the 5% mortgage that it had advertised. And he wanted it to
pay £1,000 in compensation for all the time he has wasted on the application, and the
misleading information which he said resulted in financial loss, anxiety and depression.
Halifax wrote to Mr A, and in that letter it said that its policy was to require a 15% deposit for
shared ownership properties. It thought that Mr A should have been told this sooner, so it
offered to pay him £150 in compensation. But Mr A sent us screenshots from Halifaxs
website saying that it would accept a 5% deposit for shared ownership properties.
When we contacted Halifax about this complaint, it accepted that the information readily
available to Mr A could be misinterpreted. It said that looking at all the information available
for its mortgages, including information for mortgage intermediaries (which Mr A wouldnt
have been able to see) it does ask for a 15% deposit on mortgages for shared ownership.
Halifax said that its website does say that customers can purchase a property with a deposit
made of as little as 5% of the purchase price. But it thought this didnt make clear whether
this was 5% of the part that someones purchasing, for shared ownership properties. And it
doesnt include the full details of eligibility requirements.
Halifax said that at the time Mr A applied, it wouldnt lend more than 85% of the share being
purchased, on a shared ownership property. And it wouldnt lend over 85% unless
someones credit score was high enough. It confirmed that Mr As credit score was high
enough for lending over 85%, the problem was just the sort of property he was buying.
Halifax accepted that on the call with Mr A, where he made his application, Mr A had said he
wanted to pay a 5% deposit at the start of the call, and wasnt told then that this wasnt
possible for a shared ownership property. And it also accepted that Mr A was incorrectly told
that it wouldnt lend him more because of his credit score, when actually it was to do with the
type of property he was buying.
Halifax wouldnt offer Mr A a mortgage now, based on a 5% deposit for the property he
wanted to buy. But it would still pay him the compensation of £150 that it previously offered.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that our service isnt a
regulator, so we cant tell Halifax to change how it operates. We can only look at what
Halifax has done, and consider what its offered to try to put that right.
Our investigator accepted that the website may be confusing, but she thought it was clear
that any mortgage would always be subject to application. And Halifax had confirmed that its
current shared ownership policy was to ask all customers to make a 15% deposit. She knew
Mr A said Halifaxs employees confirmed that a 5% deposit was accepted, but Halifax did
give Mr A the right information on the day he applied, which is that he needed to pay 15%.
Our investigator said that because Halifax just doesnt offer 5% mortgages for shared
ownership properties, she didnt think it had to do that for Mr A now. But she did think that it
should have told Mr A that he needed to pay a 15% deposit, at the start of his application.
Mr A said hed lost £1,000, but our investigator said she hadnt seen evidence of this, so she
couldnt ask Halifax to pay that. She thought compensation of £150 was fair and reasonable
for the incorrect advice, and any distress and inconvenience this may have caused Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed repeatedly checked that it was possible to get a mortgage
with only a 5% deposit before he made his application. Then he was told the problem was
his credit history, which caused him anxiety, in case there really was a problem with his
credit file. He had to get information from several credit reference agencies to check this.
Mr A said he applied again, and was told something different again, which was that Halifax
uses a different method to check for mortgages with only 5% deposit, which was why he
hadnt been offered one. He said he felt that Halifax was singling him out, and this caused
depression and anxiety. So he decided to complain. He said it was only later that he was told
that Halifax doesnt offer mortgages with only a 5% deposit on this sort of property, and the
refusal wasnt related to his credit history. Mr A didnt think that £1,000 in damages was too
much to ask for the misery Halifax had caused him.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because no agreement was reached, this complaint
was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Although any mortgage decision is made on an individual basis, so cant be guaranteed 
just from an advertisement online, the problem here isnt that Mr As application failed. Its 
that the thing he was applying for just wasnt something that Halifax actually offered.
Halifax has accepted that its website is potentially misleading. And I think thats right. I 
think the wording on the website that Mr A pointed us to To get started, all you need is a 
5% deposit towards the part of the home youre buying does say it is possible to get a 
mortgage on a shared ownership property with a deposit of only 5% of the share being 
purchased. So Halifax was advertising something which its told us it just didnt offer at 
that time.
But our service isnt a regulator, and I cant punish or fine Halifax just for what its website
says. I have to look at the impact on Mr A.Mr A says that this affected him very badly, he was concerned about his credit file, so he 
was depressed, and unable to sleep for two weeks. He said he obtained details of his 
credit file, and then he decided to complain.
Halifax says that Mr A applied for this mortgage on 9 August. I can see he made his
complaint on 10 August. Halifaxs notes say he was told on that day that Halifax only 
offers mortgages on shared ownership properties for customers with 15% deposits. 
Those notes also say that Mr A was told on 10 August that a refusal to offer him a 
mortgage with only a 5% deposit was nothing to do with his credit file. And I can see that 
Halifax wrote to Mr A, to confirm this, on 13 August.
I do accept it would be disappointing to be turned down for a mortgage, and Mr A wasted 
time on an application which was never going to be suitable for him. I also accept he 
would have been concerned to be told, quite wrongly, hed been turned down because of 
his credit file. But it does look as though Halifax corrected this information very quickly. 
And bearing that in mind, I do think its offer of £150 in compensation provides a fair and 
reasonable response to whats gone wrong here. So thats what I currently propose to 
award.
I know Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to do more than that.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. Halifax said it accepted my decision. Mr A didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he strongly disagreed with the amount of compensation I proposed. He thought 
Halifax should pay more. He said Halifax clearly misguided him and wasted his time and 
efforts. He said its action resulted in anxiety and depression and negative thoughts. Mr A 
said if he wasnt awarded more, he would apply to review my decision, and would look to 
take the bank to court where he would push for even higher damages.
Mr A said that my decision was unfair, and hadnt taken into account the effects of Halifaxs 
deliberately incorrect information. Mr A said there was never a problem with his credit history 
although Halifax had wrongly told him that his credit history was not good enough.
When Mr A brought his complaint to our service, he told us that Halifax had made a mistake, 
and that its actions caused sleepless nights for some weeks. In my provisional decision, I did 
accept that Mr A wasted time on an application which was never going to be suitable for him. 
Ive taken that into account in the compensation I proposed. 
I also accepted that Halifax made a mistake, when it told him that hed been turned down for 
a mortgage because of something in his credit file. I understand this would have caused Mr 
A considerable concern at the time, and Ive taken that into account too. But I also noted 
Halifax corrected this information very quickly, and I set out the timeline of events, as I 
understood it. 
Mr A hasnt challenged this timeline. So I still think that, although Halifax did make a mistake, 
which would clearly have caused Mr A considerable worry, it also put this right the next day. 
And bearing all of this in mind, I still think that an award of £150 does provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. Mr A has indicated that, if I didnt change my mind, he would want to appeal this decision. 
Unfortunately, Mr A has reached the final stage in our services consideration of his case. If 
Mr A accepts this decision, then he and Halifax will be bound by it, and Halifax must make 
the payment that Ive proposed. If not, then Mr A is free to pursue this matter by alternative 
means, including court, if he wishes. But our service cannot advise on that, and we arent 
able to take this complaint any further. 
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the 
decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr A £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman