DRN-3214230
The complaint
Mr O, a director of S, a limited company, is unhappy Starling Bank Limited wont refund 
payments he thinks it made in error.
What happened
Mr O made two payments, several months apart, from S account. He says he input the 
account details provided to him by his accountant, but the payments didnt go to that account 
 they went to another account at a different bank. Mr O was alerted to this when the 
accountant reported not having received payments that were due. 
Starling tried to recover S funds but the bank which received them said the name on the 
recipient account matched the name of the intended beneficiary  so it didnt think a mistake 
had been made and didnt take any further action. 
Mr O suggested Starling had made an error with the payments and asked for a refund. 
Starling said it had made the payments as instructed, while Mr Os accountant said he had 
no links with the account the money had been paid to.
Our investigator didnt uphold S complaint. They said there was no evidence Starling had 
made an error. They also ruled out Mr O having fallen victim to an email intercept scam, 
which might have explained why the payments went to an account other than the one 
intended.
Mr O didnt agree with the outcome and was disappointed that it had not been established 
why the funds ended up where they did. He thought that it was too coincidental that the 
funds ended up in an account belonging to someone with the same name as his accountant. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that the account holder will be responsible for 
payments it has instructed the bank to make. The bank, on the other hand is responsible for 
payments it makes in error. And, if Mr O did make the payments in error, then Id expect the 
bank to make reasonable attempts to recover them. 
While it might be frustrating not to know why these payments were made, there is no dispute 
that Mr O instructed payments of these amounts, on these particular days, using S Starling 
account. That means I can rule out another person having made them. Im also satisfied that 
the payments werent made as a result of a trick or scam  the receiving bank has no 
concerns about the account which received the money. That leaves two possibilities  Mr O 
input the account details the payments went to or he input different account details, but they 
were subsequently changed by Starling.
  
Im afraid there is simply no evidence to support the idea that an error within Starlings 
systems caused the account details to be changed. And, Ive seen Starlings records which 
satisfy me that the disputed account details were input into, and the payments authorised 
using, Mr Os registered device. So, I cannot conclude that Starling has made an error in 
processing these transactions.
Starling did what it ought to have done in trying to recover S funds  it contacted the bank 
which received the money  following the correct procedure for trying to recover a payment 
sent in error. That is all that I can expect in the circumstances.
I share Mr Os disappointment that its not clear why these funds ended up in this particular 
account. The bank which received S money rejected the claim on the basis that the funds 
had credited an account in the name of the intended beneficiary. So, it declined to contact its 
customer to ask them for entitlement to those funds (an action, I think, that might resolve the 
mystery). That bank isnt a party to this complaint, so I cant comment on its actions or 
compel it to share any further information with us about the account. 
Like Mr O, I think its unlikely to be a coincidence that the money went to an account held in 
the same name of that of the intended beneficiary. But, as Im satisfied there was no bank 
error here, Im left to conclude that, for reasons Ive not been able to establish, Mr O input 
the details of the account the payments were sent to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman