DRN-3170414
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with MBFS.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected and collected. MBFS asked Mr S to pay 
charges for damage.
Mr S disputed the charges. He contacted MBFS and was told by an agent that they would try 
to credit the charge for the windscreen. However, the charge wasnt credited. Mr S 
complained to MBFS. In response, MBFs said that the damage charges had been correctly 
applied. In relation to the windscreen, it acknowledged that the agent had told Mr S that they 
would try to credit this, but said that following a review by its damage experts, the credit was 
rejected because the windscreen was cracked and required replacement.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he agreed that he was liable to pay the charges for the scratches 
on the bumper and the RH post. But he said he wasnt prepared to pay for the windscreen 
because hed been told that this charge would be removed if he paid the rest of the charges. 
Mr S said the windscreen was chipped, not cracked, and that the collection report stated that 
the windscreen was ok.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards , which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the images. The report identifies damage to the 
LHF wing moulding, the front bumper, the RH post and the front windscreen.
MBFS has already removed the charges for the LHF wing moulding, so I wont comment on 
this.
In relation to the front bumper and the RH C post, I can see from the images that both areas 
have scratches of more than 25mm. The BVLRA guidelines say that scratches larger than 
25mm arent acceptable. Looking at the damage, and taking into account the guidelines, I 
think these charges have been applied correctly.
In relation to the windscreen, the inspection report says that this is chipped. Ive looked at 
the image and I can see that there is a chip on the screen in the drivers line of vision, and 
that the size of the chip is more than 10mm. The BVLRA guidelines say that damage in 
excess of 10mm in the drivers line of vision isnt acceptable.
Looking at the image, and taking the guidelines into account, I think the charges for damage 
to the screen have been correctly applied.
Ive taken account of what Mr S has said about being told that the charges for the 
windscreen would be removed. I can see that Mr S had a conversation with MBFS about 
this. MBFS accepts that it told Mr S it would try to remove the charges, but says that after its 
damage experts looked at the damage, it concluded that the windscreen needed to be 
replaced and that the charge couldnt be removed.
I havent been able to listen to the calls between Mr S and MBFS. But even if I had been 
able to, I dont think this would make a difference to my decision here. MBFS isnt denying 
that it told Mr S it would try to remove the charges. But ultimately, when the damage was 
reviewed, MBFS decided that the charges would stand. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ss frustration 
about this, Im unable to say that the charge was applied unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman