DRN-4493509
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Stonehaven UK Ltd trading as Canada Life undervalued their 
property, which meant it wouldnt offer to lend them as much as they wanted when they 
applied for a lifetime mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C applied to Canada Life with the aid of an equity release adviser. They thought 
their property was worth around £400,000, but the valuer instructed by Canada Life said that 
it was only worth £325,000.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this, not least because it limited the amount Canada Life 
would agree to lend. They disputed the valuation and asked for a different valuer to visit their 
property. Canada Life wouldnt agree to instruct a new valuer, but it said it would consider an 
appeal against the valuation. It asked Mr and Mrs C to explain why they disagreed, and 
provide evidence of sales of comparable properties in their area as supporting evidence.
Mr and Mrs C say their property is hard to compare with other properties. They dont agree 
that the comparable properties used by the valuer in his report are appropriate. Their 
property is in a very rural area and includes substantial outbuildings which the surveyor 
didnt take into account. They say he should also have considered their land and its potential 
uses, which increase its value.
Canada Life said that it was entitled to rely on the valuers report, but it would be willing to 
consider further evidence Mr and Mrs C could provide. It had to consider the value of the 
property as it is now not what might be done to it in the future. And when deciding how much 
to lend secured against a property it only considered the main residence not outbuildings, 
which was why they hadnt been taken into account by the valuer.
Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to us. Our investigator thought Canada Life had acted 
fairly, so Mr and Mrs C asked for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C applied for a mortgage of £171,510 to repay an existing mortgage, on the 
basis that their property was worth £400,000. Following the valuation of £325,000 Canada 
Life was only willing to lend £139,750  which wasnt enough for Mr and Mrs C. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration. But I dont think Canada Life has acted unfairly. Ill 
explain why.
A valuation for mortgage purposes isnt quite the same as a valuation for marketing 
purposes. The purpose of a mortgage valuation is twofold. First, its to enable the lender to 
find out whether the property meets its lending criteria  that is, whether its the sort of 
property the lender is willing to accept as security for lending at all. And secondly, if so, 
whether its sufficient security for the amount the borrower wants to borrow.
Like all lenders, Canada Life has criteria for the sorts of property it is and isnt prepared to 
accept, and to what extent. Most relevant to this case, Canada Life doesnt take into account 
any outbuildings in calculating what its prepared to lend.
If Mr and Mrs C were planning to sell their property, and the valuer was providing an 
appraisal of the market value of the property in its entirety  the house, land and outbuildings 
 then the valuation would include the outbuildings. It might also include potential future uses 
to which the land and outbuildings could be put, on the basis that a buyer might be willing to 
pay a premium for that in the expectation of a return on their investment later. 
But those arent factors Canada Life takes into account. The mortgage valuation wasnt an 
appraisal for marketing purposes. It was an assessment of whether the property met Canada 
Lifes lending criteria  whether it was the sort of property Canada Life was prepared to 
accept as security for lending.
If the property had fallen entirely outside Canada Lifes criteria, the valuer would have given 
it a nil valuation. That wouldnt have meant that Mr and Mrs Cs property was worthless or 
had no value; it would have meant that no part of it could have been accepted as security for 
Canada Lifes lending. A mortgage valuation is based on the lenders lending criteria, not 
solely the market value.
As it was, the property didnt fall entirely outside Canada Lifes criteria. It was prepared to 
accept the residence  but not the outbuildings. It considers that theres a limited market for 
rural properties with substantial land and buildings, and so takes a conservative view of what 
the property might be worth  doing so allows it to lend on properties like this while reducing 
the risk that it might not be able to recover the full amount of lending if there are difficulties in 
selling. 
Lifetime mortgages are generally repaid from the proceeds of sale of the property, after the 
borrowers pass away, downsize or move into care facilities. And they come with a no 
negative equity guarantee  a guarantee that the lender will never recover more than the 
propertys worth even if the balance has grown to exceed that in the meantime. A property 
that might be harder to sell, or whose value depends on additional buildings that need 
upkeep beyond the main house but which a borrower might struggle to maintain, carries a 
greater risk that the no negative equity guarantee will come into force, which might result in 
the lender taking a loss when its sold. But rather than rejecting properties like this 
altogether, Canada Life mitigates that risk by taking a cautious view of the value. I think in 
the circumstances it was fair and reasonable for Canada Life to require the valuer to only 
give a value for the residence and land and not take into account the outbuildings. 
Canada Life is entitled to set criteria for what its prepared to accept as security for lending. 
All lenders do that  and not all lenders have the same criteria. Had Mr and Mrs C applied to 
a different lender, they might have got a different result. But that doesnt mean Canada Life 
acted unfairly.
The valuer took into account what Canada Life was prepared to accept, and gave his 
professional opinion of what that was worth. Based on that valuation, Canada Life made an 
offer to lend to Mr and Mrs C  though unfortunately it didnt offer the full amount they 
wanted.
It was fair and reasonable for Canada Life to give Mr and Mrs C the chance to challenge the 
valuation by providing further evidence for consideration  in particular evidence of sales of comparable local property. Thats what Id expect it to do. The value of a property is largely 
determined by local market conditions, so sales of comparable property are a standard piece 
of evidence to be considered. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt feel able to do that  they took the view that their property was 
sufficiently distinctive that there wasnt anything it could be compared to. That may be the 
case, but it meant that there was no additional evidence for the valuer or Canada Life to 
consider to see whether it changed the valuers mind. In the absence of further evidence, 
there was no reason to change the initial valuation. Ive explained why it was reasonable that 
the valuer didnt include the outbuildings in setting the valuation.
I dont think it was unfair that Canada Life wouldnt carry out a second valuation, or consider 
an independent valuation if Mr and Mrs C obtained one. It had instructed a qualified 
professional surveyor, who gave their professional opinion based on Canada Lifes criteria. 
It's reasonable to rely on the opinion of the qualified expert  theres no reason to believe a 
second valuer instructed by Canada Life would have reached a substantially different 
opinion, or that a valuer instructed by Mr and Mrs C would have done so if theyd taken into 
account Canada Lifes specific lending criteria.
In summary, then, and while I do understand Mr and Mrs Cs frustration, I think Canada Life 
acted fairly and reasonably. It has criteria for what lending risk it is prepared to accept. It 
instructed a qualified surveyor to value the property based on those criteria. Having given 
Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to provide further evidence for the valuer to consider, it was 
entitled to rely on the professional expert opinion of the valuer in deciding what it was 
prepared to lend.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman