DRN-3455827
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund a withdrawal 
where he says the cash did not dispense.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr A used an ATM. He explained that he put in his card and entered the PIN, 
then the screen went blank. He pressed the cancel button and his card was returned. He 
says he waited several minutes, but no cash came out. Then later, he tried a withdrawal at 
another cash machine, but it said hed hit his daily limit.
Halifax checked the ATMs records and said the cash dispensed correctly.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that based on the evidence, it really did look like the cash had dispensed correctly. 
Mr A didnt agree. He reiterated that he hadnt withdrawn the money, and he asked for CCTV 
footage.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can certainly appreciate why Mr A would like to see CCTV footage. That kind of footage is 
only kept for a short time  usually less than a month  so Im afraid its much too late for me 
to be able to view it now. And if its any consolation, it was unlikely to have been detailed 
enough to show what the screen said or how much cash did or didnt come out. Ive looked 
at all the other evidence thats available, and Ive thought carefully about whats most likely 
to have happened.
According to the ATMs electronic records, Mr A entered his card and PIN and requested a 
£500 withdrawal. The withdrawal was approved, and the £500 was dispensed in exactly 
correct notes  23 £20 notes, and 4 £10 notes. Mr As card was returned. According to the 
electronic records, the machine did not experience any errors or shut down, and there is no 
record of Mr A cancelling the transaction at any point.
The customers before and after Mr A also appear to have been able to use the machine 
without any issues, and the next customer was only about a minute and a half afterwards. 
The ATM does not appear to have had any problems at the time.
If the ATM had not actually dispensed the £500, then Id expect it to have had £500 or so of 
extra cash in it afterwards. But when the cash machine was checked for balancing, there 
was only £10 extra in it. This also suggests that the £500 was dispensed.
So the evidence I have strongly supports that Mr A asked for £500 and that the cash 
machine gave it out. And Ive not seen anything which substantiates that the cash did not 
dispense. So I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Halifax to refund the withdrawal. This is 
a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr A to receive. But 
given the evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman