DRN-3702358
The complaint
Mr E is complaining that ActivTrades Plc closed his trading account and didnt return his 
funds to him. 
What happened
Mr E started trading with ActivTrades in November 2020. He made some profits and 
withdrew funds on a few occasions. But in April 2021 he was looking to buy a new car and 
tried to withdraw the remaining funds in his account, just under £11,000. ActivTrades didnt 
let him though  they emailed him a termination notice, saying hed breached clause 9.14 of 
their Client Agreement by undertaking unfair arbitrage activity. They closed his account 
with immediate effect and reversed all his transactions, setting his balance to nil, saying that 
clause 27 allowed them to do so.
Mr E says hes not very experienced in the industry but his understanding is that hes been 
accused of manipulation. He refutes the allegations and says ActivTrades should have paid 
out his funds and have treated him unfairly in not doing so.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and said there was some evidence that Mr Es 
trading in April 2021 was concerning. She didnt think ActivTrades had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, and instead had acted in line with the terms of the account. So she didnt 
uphold Mr Es complaint.
Mr E was unhappy with our investigators view and asked for a decision. In doing so, he 
said:
ActivTrades had determined hed breached the agreement by analysing just 110 
trades out of over 4,000, focusing on his trades on the Nasdaq 100 and not 
considering his trades on the Dow Jones. The low number of trades analysed is 
statistically dismissive.
Hed traded both indices with the same strategy  did ActivTrades find proof of 
latency arbitrage across both indices? If not, then might this not stem from an internal 
problem, like a difference in pricing quality across the two indices?
Hed been sending market orders  if hed been trying to exploit latency hed have 
used limit orders to ensure he got a specific price.
Why did ActivTrades not pick up on these concerns before he wanted to withdraw his 
money  it makes it look as though they didnt want to pay out the money theyd lost 
on his account.
ActivTrades have said he traded under an internal threshold  but he wouldnt have 
known that. His trade sizes varied from 3 contracts up to 9 contracts.
The assessment that hed exploited latency was based on 60% of 110 trades being 
in profit after one second. But he calculated that his average holding time for a 
position across the five months he had an account with ActivTrades was 15 minutes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging Mr E will be disappointed, Im not upholding his 
complaint. Whilst Ive considered all the points raised by Mr E, Im not addressing them all  
I concluded it wasnt necessary in order to reach a decision on his complaint. Ill explain my 
decision below.
Did ActivTrades act fairly in deciding that Mr E had been undertaking unfair arbitrage 
activity?
My role is not to decide whether or not Mr E was undertaking unfair arbitrage activity  its to 
consider whether ActivTrades acted fairly in making that decision. 
Mr Es commented that ActivTrades have considered a very small sample of his trades 
because theyve only looked at the last 110 of over 4,000 trades. But I dont think this 
matters  if they were able to prove that Mr E had been using unfair arbitrage methods on 
just one trade that would be enough to say that hed breached the terms and conditions. 
ActivTrades didnt pick 110 trades that looked most like they might be unfair  they looked at 
110 consecutive trades. Im satisfied that if the data in those 110 trades showed a 
statistically significant trend it would be reasonable to decide Mr E had breached clause 9.14 
based solely on those trades. 
ActivTrades have explained that they used a relatively small sample because Mr E traded 
through a bridge provider that they no longer support so they dont have access to the 
providers tick data. So they used a smaller sample for the sake of detail, clarity and 
conciseness. 
Mr Es also commented that ActivTrades have looked only at his trades on the Nasdaq 100 
and not on the Dow Jones. But, as I said above, they didnt need to decide that Mr E was 
using unfair methods across the whole of his trading  so Im satisfied theyve acted fairly in 
not including Dow Jones trades in their assessment. In response to my questions, 
ActivTrades said they didnt believe Mr E was exploiting latency in his Dow Jones trades  
instead they said they thought he was using this index to lock in profits made using latency 
arbitrage at another broker. They said Mr E was using a method known as hidden two leg 
latency arbitrage which is offered by various software providers and is difficult to spot. 
ActivTrades also explained more about how theyd decided Mr E had been trading unfairly. 
They said they use software to monitor all trades continuously. This classifies an order as 
latency if it goes into profit in the first five ticks after opening or closing. They then review a 
clients activity further if its deemed suspicious. ActivTrades said Mr E had appeared 
consistently on the softwares report for over a month and so further analysis had been 
carried out. 
The further analysis showed at least 60% of Mr Es trades had been latency orders, going 
into profit and overcoming the spread within one second. 
Ive reviewed Mr Es trading history, and ActivTrades explanation. Im satisfied ActivTrades 
have carried out a thorough assessment and acted fairly in reaching the conclusion that 
Mr E had been exploiting latency to gain an unfair advantage.Do the terms and conditions allow ActivTrades to retain Mr Es profits?
The Client Agreement says that if an Event of Default occurs, ActivTrades are entitled to 
reverse trades they consider necessary or appropriate to cover, reduce or remove our loss 
or liability. 
The same agreement defines an Event of Default as including: any other circumstance 
where we reasonably believe that it is necessary or desirable to declare an Event of Default 
to protect ourselves or all or any of our other clients. Its clear from the Termination Notice 
ActivTrades sent to Mr E that they consider a breach of clause 9.14 to be an Event of 
Default. 
Clause 9.14 includes the following:
We do not permit the use of the Online Facility for unfair arbitrage activity or 
otherwise taking advantage of internet delayswhich could adversely impact on fair 
and orderly trading on the Online Facility, according to our judgement 
you agree that using any device, software, algorithm, strategy or practice in your 
dealings with us which means you are unlikely to suffer any downside market risk will 
be evidence that you are taking unfair advantage of us.
It seems reasonable that unfair arbitrage activity is treated as an Event of Default  it can 
cause a business significant losses over a short period of time.
Before his account was closed, Mr E had deposited £4,000 and withdrawn over £25,000. So 
ActivTrades had already lost a significant amount on his account. He was seeking to 
withdraw a further £11,000. Im therefore satisfied that ActivTrades acted in line with their 
terms and conditions in reversing those trades rather than paying out the funds  it was an 
appropriate action to take to reduce their losses.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about ActivTrades Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman