DRN-2453168
The complaint
Mr V took a car on hire purchase from PSA Finance UK Limited. He complains that the 
settlement figure provided by PSA to end the agreement was too high and that he was 
misled into taking out a finance agreement, which was more expensive than other options 
available to him.
What happened
Mr V has said that he intended to buy a used car and, in or about April 2019, went to a
dealership, R. He was however persuaded instead to take a new car on hire purchase. He
was told that would be of benefit to R and to him. He says he was told he could clear the
agreement soon after he took it out and that he would pay only a few pounds in interest.
Mr V signed a hire purchase agreement on 14 April 2019. The agreement recorded a cash
price for the car of £28,359.05 and (separately) insurance at a price of £748. Interest on the
car was £3,913.55 and on the insurance £135.71, payable in each case over 37 months,
followed by single lump sum payments. Mr V made an advance payment of £6,800, the part 
exchange value agreed for his old car.
The hire purchase agreement also noted that the total cash price for the car was £29,107.05
 the price of the car and the insurance if it were bought without credit. That figure was
reflected in Rs invoice.
Towards the end of May 2019 Mr V requested a settlement figure  that is, he wanted to
know how much he would have to pay to settle the hire purchase agreement and take
ownership of the car. On 29 May PSA provided a figure of £22,435.55, which it said was
valid for 28 days; that figure assumed that the next payment (that is, the payment due on 15
June 2019) would be made on time. PSA said the amount had been calculated in line with
the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Mr V complained to PSA that the figure hed been given didnt tally with his own calculations.
He thought it was £492.85 too high. He also said that he was told by R when he took out the
hire purchase agreement that he could settle the finance early and would only pay a few
pounds in interest. That had, he said, been noted on the vehicle invoice.
PSA provided a more detailed breakdown of its own figures, together with an explanation of 
how it had arrived at them. It was satisfied it had calculated the figures correctly.
Mr V referred the matter to this service. In doing so, he said too that he had been led to 
believe that he would be able to settle the hire purchase agreement early and no or very little 
extra cost. He thought hed been misled by R and PSA.
One of our investigators considered what Mr V and PSA had said. He thought that Mr C had 
indeed been misled about the cost of ending the agreement early; but for that, he wouldnt
have entered into the hire purchase agreement. The investigator recommended that PSA 
treat Mr V as if he hadnt entered into the agreement, by removing it from his credit file and 
refunding any interest hed paid on it.
Mr V accepted the investigators recommendations, but PSA didnt, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. I said, in summary:
The settlement figure provided by PSA appeared to have been correctly calculated in 
line with the relevant early settlement regulations.
It wasnt necessarily wrong to say that Mr V could have paid off the credit he took out 
and only paid a few pounds interest. Had he given notice that he wanted to withdraw 
from the agreement within 14 days, he could have repaid what he borrowed plus £2.17 
a day. 
Because Mr V waited until after the 14-day period had come to an end, he had to pay a 
contribution towards the interest payable over the entire period of the hire purchase 
agreement  with a rebate in line with the early settlement regulations. 
I accepted that it was likely Mr V was told he could withdraw from the agreement and 
pay only a few pounds interest. I thought though that those discussions concerned the 
14-day withdrawal period. 
It wasnt clear what benefit Mr V had been told there would be if he took the car on 
finance, rather than paying cash, but I thought there must have been some incentive 
offered to him.     
Mr V didnt accept my provisional decision. He said that he had been told he could pay off 
the amount borrowed after hed made the first payment. The amount he would have to pay 
would be the amount of credit less the first monthly payment. 
In the event, Mr V found it difficult to obtain a settlement figure with an explanation of how it 
had been calculated. He paid more than £750 more than what hed been told he would have 
to pay; R gave him a cheque for £200 because of the mistakes it had made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I havent changed my view from that expressed in my 
provisional decision.
The hire purchase agreement set out two options for ending the agreement early. Mr V could 
give notice within 14 days that he wanted to withdraw. If he did that, he would have to repay 
the amount borrowed and interest at £2.17 a day, within 30 days. He would then own the 
car. 
Alternatively, he could terminate the agreement, return the car and pay half of the total due 
under the agreement. 
Mr V says, in effect, that he was told he could end the agreement by a combination of these 
two actions  that is, give notice outside the 14-day withdrawal period and only pay a daily 
rate of interest. Given those options were set out in the hire purchase agreement and are 
standard provisions in such an agreement, I think it unlikely that he was told that he would be able, in effect, to exercise the right of withdrawal outside the 14-day time limit.   
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont require PSA Finance UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Vs 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman