DRN-3177903
The complaint
Ms P complains that BISL Limited gave misleading information over the phone when she 
agreed a home insurance policy.
Ms P is represented by Mr A in this case.
What happened
Ms P called BISL in March 2019 to discuss her renewal quote. Mr A was also party to the 
call. The call handler confirmed that a cheaper quote could be provided. Mr A asked whether 
a flint garden boundary wall was covered by the policy. After checking with colleagues, the 
call handler confirmed it was. 
Later that year the garden wall collapsed, and Ms P made a claim on her home insurance. 
This was declined by the underwriters due to the cause being wear and tear, which was 
excluded under the policy terms. Mr A complained to BISL. He says a verbal addition was 
made to the terms and conditions, which meant the flint wall was covered, if it just fell 
down. He says this was specifically agreed during the call. He felt this verbal addition meant 
the claim couldnt be excluded. 
BISL says its call handler confirmed the wall was covered and Ms P and Mr A should check 
the policy documents to confirm the cover and exclusions. It says it has spoken to the 
insurer and understands the claim was declined due to the wear and tear exclusion. The 
company identified no issues with its handling of the call and confirmed it had followed the 
correct process. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
The matter was referred to our service and reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt 
uphold the complaint. Having listened to the renewal call she says it was clear that although 
the call handler confirmed the wall was covered, the context was around the material the 
wall was made from. Not that it would be covered if it just fell down. She says the call 
handler confirmed Ms P and Mr A should read the policy documents to ensure the cover 
provided was understood.  
Mr A disagreed. He says the material the wall is constructed from isnt a significant point. He 
says there was a verbal addition to the policy to provide cover for the wall if it just fell down. 
Our investigator maintained her view and so Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Ms P and Mr A, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
BISL has supplied a recording of the call where the renewal of Ms Ps home insurance is 
discussed. During the call, following a discussion about the premium, Mr A says he wants to 
make doubly sure that a flint wall, that forms a boundary in the garden, is covered.
The call handler clarifies that Mr A wants to know if cover is provided, if the wall was to fall 
down or get damaged. Both Mr A and Ms P confirm this is correct. The call handler says 
she thinks the wall is covered but wants to check with her colleagues. After a few minutes on 
hold, the call handler returns and confirms the wall is covered. She says the fact its made 
from flint doesnt matter, and it will be covered as though it was a normal wall. The call 
handler clarifies this by explaining it would be covered in the same way that a brick wall 
would.  
Mr A subsequently agrees to accept the premium quoted. Around a minute later the call 
handler says:
In regard to what you are covered for, for walls and everything and the exclusions, make 
sure you are reading through the documentation.  
I have thought about the verbal addition Mr A says was made. And whether its reasonable 
to consider the policy terms and conditions shouldnt apply to the garden wall, based on the 
conversation with BISL.
In the call the focus is on the garden wall being constructed from flint, and whether this was 
covered. The call handler was unfamiliar with this material. This is the point she checked 
with her colleagues. Having clarified this point, she confirmed the wall was covered. I have 
seen the policy booklet, which confirms cover is provided for garden walls. So, the 
information BISLs call handler gave, that the wall was covered under the policy terms, was 
accurate.  
During the call Mr A doesnt state that the wall should be exempt from the policy terms and 
conditions. Only that he wanted to know if the (flint) wall was covered. Having listened to the 
call I think its fair to say BISL answered Mr As question accurately.
I dont think BISLs call handler was aware that, a verbally agreed upon special additional 
term and condition, had been arranged as Mr A suggests. Or that it was made clear this 
was the intention. But it was made clear to Mr A and Ms P that they should read the policy 
documentation, to ensure they understood what was covered, including the exclusions that 
applied. 
Mr A says what is required in this case is a determination on legal principles of contract law. 
I acknowledge Mr As point. Our service bases decisions on all the circumstances and 
relevant evidence including having a regard for the law. But our findings are ultimately based 
on a consideration of what is fair and reasonable. This is the approach I must and have 
taken here.    
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded by Mr As argument that a verbal agreement 
was entered into, which meant the collapsed garden wall was covered irrespective of what 
the policy terms say. I dont think its been shown that BISL treated Ms P and Mr A unfairly or 
that the information it provided was misleading. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to 
do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman