DRN-4316364
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has failed to refund 
over £17,000 he says he lost to two scams.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. But in summary, Mr G 
sent over £17,000 via a number of debit card payments and one bank transfer, over a 
number of months, to two companies purporting to be publishing agencies. Mr G paid funds 
to them for various services including marketing and publishing a book that Mr G had written. 
Mr G says that these firms werent publishing agencies and were in fact scammers. 
Mr G raised a complaint with Halifax as he believed that it should have stopped these 
payments. He therefore requested that Halifax refund him. Halifax declined to do this for the 
debit card payments. However, it did though refund the transfer that Mr G made under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and they did not think that Halifax had done 
anything wrong and did not need to do anything more. Mr G disagreed and therefore his 
complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should stress that there is not automatic right for a consumer to receive a refund 
from Halifax when they are scammed. For Halifax to be liable to make a refund I would need 
to be satisfied that Halifax should have intervened during the scam and had it done so the 
scam would have been prevented. I also must consider whether Halifax is liable to refund 
Mr G the money he lost based on the rules in place at the time.
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks have a duty to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably have 
been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a fraudster; 
meaning that Halifax could have delayed the payment(s) while concerns about the payee 
were discussed with Mr G.
I should also add that it is arguable given the size of the payments involved that Halifax 
should not have intervened at all in relation to the payments that were made. We would only 
expect Halifax to intervene and discuss the payments if they were unusual or had a pattern 
commensurate with common scams.
But even if Halifax should have intervened, Im not sure that they would have uncovered that 
Mr G was potentially being scammed. Especially as scams involving publishing companies 
are not a common scam, at least in my experience.
So, for me to say that Halifax did something wrong I would need to be satisfied that there 
were concerns that the two companies were operating a scam when Mr G made the 
payments to it that wouldve been apparent to Halifax. 
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate 
in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own warning list. These watchlists, 
along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no warnings about the 
companies involved at the time Mr G made his payment that ought to have been apparent to 
Halifax.
At the time Mr G made his payments, both companies appear with a basic search to have 
been legitimate companies. I accept that with the extensive research that Mr G has now 
done there are doubts as to whether the second company was operating legitimately but I 
dont think that this would have or indeed should have been apparent to Halifax at the time. 
Overall Im not persuaded that there was any reason for Halifax to have been aware that 
either company was fraudulent or operating a scam at the time of the payments. As a result, 
Halifaxs duty to intervene wasnt triggered. Therefore, I dont consider the bank acted 
unfairly by preventing or failing to intervene in the payments being made. 
I accept that it is possible that these companies were not operating correctly especially with 
the evidence provided by Mr G but this does not mean that Halifax have to refund the debit 
card payments that he made. I can only ask Halifax to refund the payments in question if it 
should have prevented the payments or uncovered the scam prior to the payments being 
made and for the reasons set out above I dont think that it reasonably should have. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax ought to have done anything to recover the funds 
after Mr G reported his loss. The payments that were made by debit card, the funds could 
have been potentially been recovered by chargeback. But in this instance, Mr G raised his 
complaint with Halifax well after the deadlines for a chargeback claim to be raised, so I dont 
think Halifax did anything wrong in relation to the debit card payments. 
I should also add that even if the payments were within the timescales for a chargeback, 
which they were not, given that the payments for scam two were made via a payment 
services firm there wouldnt have been have been a reasonable prospect of a successful 
chargeback. I say this because the payment service firm did what they were paid for which is 
to send on the funds.
Halifax also wouldnt have been under any obligation to consider refunding debit card 
payments under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either. This is because 
the payment were made by debit card and the Code does not cover that type of payment.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G, and Im sorry to hear he has 
lost a significant amount of money. But there is not an automatic right for consumers to 
receive a refund from Halifax if they are scammed it depends on the circumstances and 
payment method and in this instance for the reasons above Mr G is not due a refund from 
Halifax.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman