DRN-2685457
The complaint
Mr H complains about the customer service he received from Allay Claims Ltd while 
pursuing him for its fee.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr H complained to Allay about its communication with him when pursuing him 
for its fee for the settlement of mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). He said Allay 
was ignoring his emails and letters and had been harassing him for its fee when he hadnt 
received settlement from the lender.
Allay offered to reduce Mr Hs fee by £50. Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns and 
thought this was fair to resolve the complaint. She issued her view on this matter on 23 
October 2020. Mr H accepted our investigators view and Allays offer. So, his complaint was 
closed. 
In November 2020, Mr H raised further concerns about the service hed received from Allay. 
He said hed asked Allay to send him a final invoice (covering the three previous invoices 
hed been sent) and recording the goodwill reduction of £50 Allay had offered. Allay had sent 
a letter with a reduced amount for one invoice, followed by an invoice with the higher 
amount. 
Allay apologised for not sending Mr H an up to date invoice with the reduction. It reduced   
Mr Hs fee by a further £39.92. But this didnt resolve things for Mr H because he continued 
to receive invoices for the wrong amount. Allay said it felt its offer to reduce the invoice by 
£39.92 was reasonable and it wasnt prepared to reduce it further.
 
Mr H didnt feel that Allay had fully addressed the issue. He was still receiving invoices with 
different amounts and he didnt think £39.92 was enough to compensate him for the 
frustration and inconvenience he was experiencing.
Our investigator looked into the matter and concluded that Allays offer was fair. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He felt he had been badly treated by Allay and 
put to considerable trouble to make sure he wasnt subjected to additional charges or 
penalties. So, Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
As Mr H accepted our investigators view on the matters he previously complained about, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on these. Instead, I will consider the customer 
service Mr H received from Allay following our investigators view of his initial complaint 
(issued on 23 October 2020).
Mr H emailed Allay on 28 October 2020 requesting an itemised bill for the three fees he 
owed which also showed the £50 reduction. He said he would be happy to pay three 
separate amounts by bank transfer but Allay would have to tell him which payment was to be 
reduced by the £50.
On 2 November 2020, Allay issued a letter that said its invoice for £312.11 (inclusive of VAT) 
was due for payment. I can see that Mr H had previously been issued an invoice for £362.92 
(dated 5 December 2019) with the same reference number. 
Mr H says he received a further email from Allay on 9 November 2020 enclosing an invoice 
for £362.92 and requesting immediate payment to avoid further charge. I can see how it 
would have been confusing for Mr H to receive an invoice with the higher amount, when hed 
previously been told it had been reduced.
On 24 November 2020, Allay sent Mr H an email apologising for this. Allay said the initial 
invoice amount was £362.92. The £50 reduction had brought the total down to £312.11 and 
as a goodwill gesture it had reduced Mr Hs fee by a further £39.92 leaving the total amount 
payable as £272.19.
Mr H says that following this, he continued to receive invoices for £362.92 from Allay. I 
appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr H. I understand he was reluctant to make 
payment for this particular invoice to Allay while this was happening, and he found the 
covering emails threatening. 
Its unclear why Allay kept sending invoices with the wrong amount to Mr H. But from what I 
can see these were dated 5 December 2019. Im satisfied that Allay gave Mr H clear 
information about what he needed to pay to settle the invoice (following the goodwill 
reductions) on 24 November 2020. 
I think Allays communication with Mr H could have been better. I appreciate how frustrating 
it must have been to continue to receive copies of invoices with the wrong amount, with no 
explanation from Allay as to why this was happening. But I think the £39.92 reduction from 
Allay is reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset Mr H has experienced as a result 
of Allays poor communication. 
I can see that Mr H has settled his invoice with Allay since our investigator issued her view 
on this complaint and has received confirmation of this. I hope this will have resolved matters 
for him.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr H who has put a lot of time and effort into his 
complaint. But I dont require Allay to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman