DRN-4177181
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wakam declined his claim for storm damage under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr K took out home insurance with Wakam. He made a claim for damage to his pantry roof 
and to the contents which were damaged by water ingress. 
Wakam sent their loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He advised Mr K that the roof was in 
a poor state of repair and that the damage was caused by lack of maintenance. He also 
noted that there were no storm conditions at the time the damage was caused. Wakam 
declined Mr Ks claim.
Mr K complained as he didnt think the damage was caused by the age of the roof or wear 
and tear. Wakam didnt uphold the complaint. It said the damage was not caused by an 
insured event and that the roof was in a poor state of repair which had led to the water 
ingress. It referred to its terms and conditions and said that policyholders were responsible 
for maintaining their home in a good state of repair and that a well-maintained building 
should withstand most weather conditions.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. She said there was no evidence of storm conditions around the time of the claim 
and that it was not unreasonable for Wakam to rely on its loss adjusters report to decline the 
claim. Mr K didnt agree. He also said he thought the damage to the roof had been caused 
by something or someone climbing up on to the roof and wasnt a result of wear and tear. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only the damage 
caused by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the 
damage can be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it is able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. 
Wakam dealt with Mr Ks claim under the storm damage section of the policy, so this is my 
starting point. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  and I can see that the policy includes 
storm damage but that it doesnt cover gradual loss or damage. The general conditions 
apply to all sections and say You must make sure that your buildings are maintained in a 
good state of repair. It goes on to say that if we decide that the loss, damage, liability, cost 
or expense that led to the claim was caused or made worse by you failing to meet your 
obligations under this clause, we may refuse to pay the claim . The policy also contains 
general exclusions which say that the policy excludes any gradual or maintenance related 
loss or damage including wear and tear and any gradual deterioration.
When considering complaints about storm damage claims, we ask three questions: 
Is there evidence of a storm event on or around the time the damage was caused? 
Is the damage claimed for typical of damage that would be caused by a storm? 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage? 
The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be able to recommend 
that a storm complaint is upheld.
Wakam says that there was no evidence of a storm around the time of Mr Ks claim. A storm 
is defined in the policy as a gale of force 10 or above with winds reaching speeds of at least 
55mph - or torrential rain falling at a rate of at least 25mm per hour. Ive checked weather 
records around the time of the claim, and Im satisfied there were no storm conditions. I 
therefore think it reasonable that the claim was declined under the storm damage section of 
the policy.
Mr K has also suggested that someone or something has got up onto the roof causing it to 
crack. I can see that Mr Ks policy includes accidental buildings damage  so Ive considered 
whether Mr K could claim under this section. Accidental damage is defined as Sudden, 
unexpected and physical damage which: a) happens at a specific time; and b) was not 
deliberate; and c) was caused by something external and identifiable. 
Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked carefully at the photos he sent us. I can see the 
cracks that he refers to but Im not able to say that these were caused by someone or 
something climbing up onto the roof. Mr K refers to a water barrel having been moved next 
to the pantry allowing easier access to the roof. He says that a roofing contractor he had 
examine the roof suggested that either an intruder or a fox may have used this to gain 
access. Whilst this may be possible, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that this is 
how the damage occurred. 
On balance, I think it more likely that the damage to the roof was due to its age and 
condition. I say this based on everything that Ive read and seen, including the loss adjusters 
report. I agree that the roof doesnt look to be in good condition. I also note that black mould 
can be seen inside the pantry which would suggest a long-term gradual water ingress rather 
than a one-off sudden event. Im not therefore satisfied that the damage is covered by the 
accidental buildings damage section in the policy. The policy does not include accidental 
damage to contents.
Bearing all the above in mind, Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think the damage 
was caused by an insured event. I understand that Mr K will be disappointed with my 
decision, but I dont think it was unreasonable for Wakam to rely on its loss adjusters report 
and decline the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman