DRN-3159127
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs R complain National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly closed their 
accounts and gave no reasons for doing so. They say this has caused them trouble and 
upset and theyve lost out on insurance products attached to one of the accounts. 
Mr D and Mrs R want NatWest to reinstate the accounts and pay them compensation. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs R have had accounts closed previously by NatWest. Complaints about this 
have already been investigated previously at this service  so they wont form any part of 
this decision. 
Following an internal review, NatWest decided to close Mr D and Mrs Rs accounts held with 
it in June 2020 and gave 14 days notice about this. Unhappy about this, and that it left them 
at risk given the account included insurance cover, Mr D and Mrs R complained. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr D and Mrs Rs complaint. Because of this they referred their 
complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the matter, and in summary 
they found: 
- A bank can terminate a banking relationship, in the same way a customer of its can, 
but as long as its done within the terms and conditions of the account 
- The accounts havent been unfairly closed by NatWest. But it should have given Mr D 
and Mrs R 60 days notice to do so 
- But NatWest closing it within 14 days hasnt caused Mr D and Mrs R significant 
hardship as they had bank accounts with another provider 
- They could have applied for insurance products elsewhere 
- £100 was recommended as compensation for the trouble and upset caused in having 
to find alternative insurance providers 
Mr D and Mrs R didnt agree with this. They said they had received much more 
compensation before and £100 was paltry in comparison to what they have suffered.  
Mr D and Mrs R still have some money left with NatWest. Theyre aware they need to follow 
NatWests process to recover this. 
I must now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
So, because of this, Im satisfied NatWest didnt do anything wrong when it reviewed Mr D 
and Mrs Rs accounts. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which NatWest and Mr D and Mrs R had to comply 
with, say it could close the account by giving it at least 60 days notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by NatWest, Im not persuaded it was entitled 
to close the accounts in the way it has done. Im under no obligation that Im aware of to 
disclose the reasons NatWest took the actions it did. But given the information Ive seen, I 
think NatWest ought to have given Mr D and Mrs R sixty days notice as opposed to the 
fourteen it gave.   
For NatWest to have closed the accounts in the way it has, I would expect to see stronger 
evidence than it has provided. 
Mr D and Mrs R had another bank account they could use. So I dont think NatWests 
actions caused them much detriment in terms of being left without banking facilities. I accept 
however that being told their accounts were being closed in two weeks and loosing 
insurance products attached to one of the accounts caused them trouble and upset. 
So given they would have had two weeks to find an alternative insurance provider as 
opposed to sixty days, I think NatWest should pay Mr D and Mrs R £100 compensation for 
this. This award is based solely on the circumstances of this individual complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay Mr D and 
Mrs R £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman