DRN-4006639
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a transaction he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr Bs registered mobile phone was used to pay someone £1,000 via a 
transfer on his banking app, validated by his biometrics.
Mr B told Lloyds this was a friend he owed money to, and hed consented to the payment. 
But he said hed only meant to pay them £100, not £1,000, so the amount was an error. So 
Lloyds put in a request to return the £900 difference, but the receiving bank declined it.
In November 2022, Mr B reported the payment as fraudulent instead. Hes said it was made 
by someone he didnt know, and he didnt consent to it. Hed been alone outside on a night 
out, and had happened to be checking his online banking. Then two men took his phone and 
flashed his face for Face ID to pay themselves money. He didnt try to stop them as they 
came across as aggressive. He knew what theyd done, but initially told Lloyds he consented 
to the payment as he didnt want the police involved.
Lloyds held Mr B liable for the payment in dispute, because the way the payment was made 
suggested Mr B had consented to it, and Mr B had previously said hed consented to it.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Lloyds can hold Mr B liable for the payment in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that he authorised it.
Im satisfied from Lloyds technical evidence that the payment in dispute used Mr Bs own 
biometrics, on his genuine mobile banking app, on his registered mobile phone. So I can see 
that the transaction was properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence 
suggests that its most likely Mr B consented to the transaction, or not.
Mr B told Lloyds that he did consent to the transaction  he only claimed that the transaction 
was unauthorised much later, after his erroneous amount claim failed. And it wouldnt make 
sense for him to tell Lloyds hed consented to the payment if he actually hadnt. Reporting 
the payment as unauthorised didnt necessitate police involvement, and Mr B later chose to 
involve the police himself anyway, so I dont consider this a plausible reason. But Mr Bs 
actions would make sense if he did authorise the payment and, for example, paid the wrong 
amount by accident or later regretted the payment hed made. And Lloyds would not be 
responsible for his payment in those sorts of situations.
In his later testimony, Mr B said hed just happened to be alone outside checking his online 
banking, when the two men approached him. But the new payee process was initiated just a 
few seconds after Mr B logged in. He didnt do anything else after logging in; the new payee 
process was started straight away. It is not likely or plausible that these two strangers would 
happen to be nearby, would happen to spot that Mr B had just logged into a mobile banking 
app and be able to see this clearly, and that they would be able to accost him, take the 
phone, get their bearings in the app, and navigate their way towards setting up a new payee, 
all within a few seconds. It would make much more sense if the payment process was 
started so quickly because Mr B logged in in order to make this payment  which also fits 
with his original testimony.
I would expect a thief or fraudster to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible. Here, an alleged thief wouldve been able to see Mr Bs available balance. Yet 
apparently they chose to only make one payment, take less than half the available funds 
including the available overdraft, leave Mr B with a substantial balance, and give his phone 
back to him. That is simply not credible. By giving Mr B his phone back, a thief would be 
actively stopping themselves from taking as much as they could, while substantially 
increasing their chances of being caught  since Mr B could have just phoned the police or 
Lloyds straight afterwards to report the fraud and reverse the payment. A stranger couldnt 
have known that Mr B would choose not to report this as fraud for over 40 days.
On that point, it is similarly not plausible that Mr B would wait over 40 days to tell Lloyds that 
the payment was fraudulent, if it was really made without his consent. According to his 
testimony, he knew what the fraudsters had done straight away. But again, this would fit well 
with the possibility that he did consent to the payment at the time.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence which makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr B 
couldve authorised this payment or given someone else permission to make it.
To summarise, the payment was made on Mr Bs registered phone, on his genuine app, 
using his biometrics, at an IP address in line with his usual use. Mr B previously said himself 
that he consented to it, and it was for a friend he owed money to. Given how the payment 
was made, and given how Mr B initially dealt with it, it is not likely or plausible that it was 
made without Mr Bs consent, but it fits very well with the possibility that he consented to it, 
as he previously said he did. There is no evidence which shows or substantiates that this 
payment was made without Mr Bs consent, other than Mr Bs later testimony  which Im 
afraid has been contradictory and implausible, so I cannot fairly rely on it.
On that basis, I think its fair that Lloyds declined a refund in this case. This is a difficult 
message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr B to receive. But given the 
evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other 
conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman