DRN-4029470
The complaint
Miss S complains that London General Insurance Company Limited (LGICL) unfairly turned 
down her claim on her mechanical breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ss car had a problem, so she took it to be inspected by a garage. The garage 
diagnosed an issue with the Variable Valve Timing actuator (VVT) and the timing chain. 
Because of this Miss S claimed on her policy with LGICL for the repair needed to her car. 
LGICL reviewed the claim and declined it. It said the timing chain had stretched and 
therefore it must have happened gradually. So LGICL declined the claim under the wear and 
tear exclusion in the policy. Miss S didnt think this was fair and complained. She sent LGICL 
evidence from the garage which showed the VVT had failed and caused excessive strain on 
the timing chain which had caused it to stretch. 
LGICL reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the timing chain had stretched and 
therefore didnt meet the policy terms of a sudden and unexpected failure. Miss S didnt 
agree and referred her complaint here. She said shed paid over £3,000 to repair her car and 
thought LGICL should cover the claim. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
LGICL hadnt commented on the VVT causing the failure. She also thought at the point the 
timing chain became stretched and no longer worked correctly was sudden and unforeseen 
and met the policy terms. Our investigator also found that LGICL hadnt shown the part 
which had failed had reached the end of their normal working life and so didnt think it was 
fair for LGICL to not cover the claim. She recommended LGICL pay Miss Ss claim, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
LGICL didnt agree. It said the timing chain had stretched and therefore wasnt covered 
under the policy. 
As LGICL didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ss policy says it Covers your vehicle for the cost of repair or replacement (Including 
labour) of any Covered Components in the event that any such Covered Component (as 
listed in Schedule 1: Covered Components) is subject to sudden and unforeseen mechanical 
or electrical breakdown unless such components fail due to negligence or reaching the end 
of its working life due to expected deterioration.
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss policy also define Mechanical Breakdown as: The 
sudden and unforeseen failure of a component, not by wear and tear, normal deterioration or 
negligence. We are not liable for parts that have reached the end of their normal working 
lives because of age or usage.
Miss Ss policy covers her for all mechanical and electrical parts but excludes some claims 
for certain parts linked to certain events. From reviewing this, the parts which have failed on 
Miss Ss car appear to be covered. 
LGICL has declined Miss Ss claim as it said her timing chain failed due to wear and tear.
I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that at the point the chain stretched and failed to 
operate properly there was a sudden and unforeseen event. I say this as there isnt anything 
to show Miss S was aware the chain and stretched and didnt do anything about it. 
Furthermore, the repairing garage said the stretched timing chain is due to a failed VVT and 
as that failed suddenly Im satisfied Miss Ss claim meets the policy definition of a sudden 
and unexpected failure. 
Ive also noted LGICLs comments about it failing due to wear and tear, but Im not 
persuaded its fair and reasonable to rely on this term. I say this because its only fair and 
reasonable to decline a claim due to wear and tear if a part has failed because its reached 
the end of its normal working life expectancy. I also noted the terms exclude wear and tear 
or parts which have come to the end of their normal working life, so it appears this is also the 
intention of the policy terms. Miss S said the parts failed when her car had done around 
60,000 miles and as LGICL hasnt shown either part has reached the end of its normal 
working life, Im not persuaded LGICL has acted fairly in declining this claim. 
As LGICL incorrectly declined Miss Ss claim, she paid for the repairs herself. Therefore, to 
put things right, LGICL need to pay Miss Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of her policy. LGICL should also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it 
pays Miss S to compensate her for not having the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. London General Insurance 
Company Limited need to pay Miss Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. 8% simple interest per year needs to be added to the amount it pays Miss S, 
calculated from the date she paid for the repair until the date the settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman