DRN-2399708
The complaint
Mr W complains that ReAssure Limited failed to provide him with timely information about 
the funds in which his pension savings could be invested. As a result of market volatility the 
value of his pension savings was reduced before, on a later call, he was provided with the 
necessary information to allow him to switch the investment of his pension savings. 
What happened
Mr W held pension savings with ReAssure. As he had passed 55 years of age he was 
considering taking those pension savings and had previously discussed his options with a 
financial advisor and with PensionWise.
On 10 March 2020 Mr W called ReAssure. I have listened to a recording of that call. On the 
call, Mr W discussed various options about how he might take his pension benefits and 
provided a change of address. He was also given a valuation of his pension savings. 
However it seems to me that the main purpose of his call was to discuss his concerns about 
the recent volatility in the markets caused by the early stages of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The call handler from ReAssure told Mr W that he would be able to change the investment 
funds used for his pension savings, and she confirmed that on a scale of 1 to 6 the fund in 
which his pension savings were currently invested was rated 4. She explained this was 
categorised as a medium risk fund. But she told Mr W that in order to change his investment 
approach he would need to specify the name of the new fund he wished to use. She told 
Mr W that she could send him details of the fund choices by post and that these would take 
between 5 and 10 working days to arrive. She apologised that this information couldnt be 
sent by email.
The volatility in the markets continued so on 13 March Mr W called ReAssure once again. 
He explained his concerns about his pension investments to a different agent, and repeated 
his desire to move his pension savings into a low risk investment. The call handler provided 
Mr W with a new valuation of his pension savings that showed they had fallen by more than 
5% over the past three days. This clearly came as a great shock to Mr W and he asked 
whether there was anything he could do to progress a fund switch to reduce the likelihood of 
any further losses.
Being very careful to not provide any advice, the call handler provided Mr W with an 
overview of the different funds in which he could invest his pension savings including two 
deposit funds that had a risk rating of 1. Given Mr Ws interest in these lowest risk funds he 
provided Mr W with further information about them such as comparative performance over 
previous years, brief details of the published investment approach, and information about the 
fund management charges. Mr W asked that his pension savings be moved into the deposit 
fund he had chosen based on the information provided.
Mr W complained that, had his initial call been handled in the same way as his second call, 
he would have been able to move his pension savings to a lower risk fund three days earlier. 
And as a result he would have prevented some of the loss in value that occurred. ReAssure 
didnt uphold his complaint. In brief it considered that the initial call handler had correctly 
followed its procedures relating to fund switches. And that the second call handler had 
actually over-stepped his authority and provided Mr W with advice. So it didnt think that it 
had caused the losses Mr W complained about, but it offered him £200 in respect of the poor 
handling of the second call. Mr W didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt agree with 
ReAssure that Mr W had been given advice, or a recommendation, on the second call. And 
he thought that a similar level of service should have been provided on the initial call. Had 
ReAssure done that he thought that Mr W would have competed the switch of his investment 
approach at the time of the first call, and protected the value of his pension savings. So he 
asked ReAssure to backdate the change of Mr Ws investments to the time of the first call.
ReAssure didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr W accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other 
words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I have listened carefully to the calls that Mr W had with ReAssure on both 10 and 13 March. 
The call on 13 March also included a conversation with one of ReAssures complaint 
handlers that I will refer to later in this decision.
It is clear to me that when Mr W called ReAssure on 10 March his primary concern was 
relating to the volatility of the stock markets in response to the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic. He asked for information about the risk profile of the fund in which his pension 
savings were invested, and for guidance about how he could change the investment of those 
pension savings into a lower risk fund.I appreciate that the call handlers from ReAssure need to be extremely careful that they 
dont provide any advice, or a recommendation, to consumers when having discussions of 
this nature. And I therefore understand why it is important that the consumer clearly 
articulates the fund into which they wish to invest their pension savings. That is no doubt 
why ReAssure has designed its processes so that it sends information to consumers on 
which they can then base their decision.
I think what I have described above is an entirely reasonable approach to routine decisions 
about changes to an investment approach. However, as Mr W explained, and the call 
handler clearly understood, the reasons for Mr W wanting to change his investment 
approach were anything other than routine. Globally, markets were reacting to the 
uncertainty being caused by the Covid-19 pandemic with large swings in valuations 
occurring daily. So I dont think it was reasonable for ReAssure to expect Mr W to wait up to 
10 business days for the information he would need to alter his investment approach to be 
delivered by post.
I have noted that ReAssure has said information about the available funds had previously 
been sent to Mr W in 2018. But I dont agree that means Mr W had the necessary 
information in his possession. The previous provision of that information wasnt highlighted 
to Mr W on the call. And even if it had been I doubt that Mr W had retained the details of the 
available funds  it certainly wasnt information he showed any awareness of having during 
his discussions with the call handler.
I think that the call that took place on 13 March provided a template for how the call on 
10 March could have been handled. Whilst I accept that call might have been outside what 
ReAssure would consider to be its normal approach, I think it was a fair and reasonable 
reaction to what were unprecedented circumstances around the world.
Like our investigator I cannot agree with ReAssure that the second call handler provided 
Mr W with advice, or a recommendation, on the investment approach he should choose. 
Instead I think he listened carefully to what Mr W wanted to achieve, and provided him with 
tailored information about those funds that, from their published fact sheets, were closest to 
what Mr W had described. But I also note that the call handler took great care to ensure that 
Mr W was aware that other investment approaches remained available to him. And the call 
handler also offered Mr W no assurance that even the lowest risk funds would ensure that 
his pension savings didnt suffer any loss of value.
As I said earlier, the final part of the call on 13 March saw Mr W explain to one of 
ReAssures complaints handlers what had happened. I have noted that the complaint 
handler told Mr W he would have expected the first call to have resulted in the same 
outcome as the second if Mr W had clearly explained his concerns over the volatility in the 
markets. And whilst in reaching my decision I dont consider I should be led by the opinion of 
the complaint handler, I must say that I agree with it. Mr W did clearly express a very 
pressing concern about the volatility of the markets, and I would have expected a 
commensurately timely response from the call handler.
I do have some concerns over the lack of information Mr W was ultimately given about when 
his fund switch would take place. I think, following the call on 13 March, he expected that the 
value of his pension savings had been protected at the valuation hed been given on the call. 
What should have been explained to him was that the valuation hed been given was as at 
the previous evening. And that the valuation that would be applied to his fund switch would 
in fact be the value at the end of the day. So Mr W actually suffered a further fall in the value 
of his pension savings before they were switched to the lower risk deposit fund.Whilst that further potential loss of value would no doubt have been even more distressing 
for Mr W I have seen nothing to make me think it would have changed his instructions. And 
so I think that I should reasonably disregard those failings when forming my view of what 
I think ReAssure should do to put things right here.
I think that, on 10 March, ReAssure should have handled Mr Ws call in a similar manner to 
what happened on 13 March. And had it done so I think Mr W would have instructed 
ReAssure to make the fund switch at that time. Due to the delay Mr W has lost out, and so 
I think ReAssure needs to pay him compensation.
  
Putting things right
ReAssure should treat Mr Ws instruction to switch the investment fund in which his pension 
savings were invested as having been received on the call of 10 March, rather than on the 
call of 13 March. So those changes should be backdated by 3 days.
ReAssure should calculate what the value of Mr Ws pension savings would have been had 
those changes been made earlier. If the value would have been higher, that difference 
should be paid to Mr W.
The compensation should be added to Mr W's pension savings. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If ReAssure is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I expect Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer so 
the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr W would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
ReAssure should pay an additional sum of £200 to Mr W to reflect the trouble and upset that 
the loss of value of his pension savings has no doubt caused to him.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct ReAssure Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman