DRN-2774248
The complaint
Mr W believes that he wasnt in a good enough financial position to have been approved for
a loan by Barclays Bank UK PLC and that had reasonable checks into his financial position
been undertaken before the loan was approved this would have been apparent to them.  
What happened
In May 2017 Mr W applied for loan with Barclays of approximately £12,500. The loan was
over a term of 60 months and had a monthly repayment amount of approximately £330.
Barclays approved the loan and Mr W used around £1,500 of the money received to clear an
existing loan he held with Barclays. The remaining amount, roughly £11,000, was credited to
Mr Ws current account. Soon afterwards, Mr W made a payment to a third party of
approximately £10,000.
In early 2020, Mr W raised a complaint with Barclays. He was unhappy that hed been
approved for the loan because he felt that his financial circumstances at that time hadnt
been properly taken into account by Barclays, and that if they had been, Barclays would
have seen that the loan was unaffordable for him.
Barclays looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they felt that they had undertaken a fair
assessment of Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time that the loan was applied for, and
that the loan had been affordable for him at that time. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ws
complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had
undertaken reasonable checks into Mr Ws financial position at the time that he applied for
the loan, and so they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 March 2021 as follows:
It's for a business to decide whether it will lend to someone and, if so, how much and 
on what terms. What we'd expect is that a lender carries out reasonable and 
proportionate checks as to the affordability of any lending.
At first glance, it appears that Barclays did that here. They reviewed Mr Ws credit 
file, assessed Mr Ws bank statements to get an understanding of his income and 
expenditure, and gathered information from Mr W directly.
However, Mr W doesnt believe that Barclays correctly assessed the information that 
they gathered, and having reviewed this information myself, including the 
assessment of Mr Ws income and expenditure that Barclays compiled for the six 
months leading up to the date of application, I feel that Mr Ws point here is a valid 
one.
Specifically, Im not convinced that Barclays assessment of Mr Ws income and 
expenditure was accurate. And it must be noted that Barclays, in their own response 
to Mr Ws complaint, confirm that they assessed Mr W as having regular income of 
approximately £2,250 per month as well as several other credits received from third 
parties.
My own review of Mr Ws income and expenditure information didnt yield the same
conclusion as Barclays, but instead appeared to show that Mr Ws income at that 
time varied significantly from month to month, and that there was no regular source 
of income but rather that income was received from three different sources during 
that period. Its notable that Mr Ws advised this service that, at that time, he was 
working primarily on a short-term contract basis and that he changed employment 
regularly and had little long-term job security.
So, while the nature of the checks that Barclays undertook when assessing Mr W for 
this loan appear to be reasonable and proportionate, Im not convinced that an 
accurate assessment of Mr Ws financial position was arrived at by Barclays with the 
information gathered by these checks.
Its difficult to say conclusively what would have happened here if Barclays had had a 
more accurate understanding of Mr Ws financial position at the time of the 
application, but the possibility exists that the decision that Barclays made to lend to 
Mr W under the terms that he was applying for may have been different. Ultimately, 
when considering the variable nature of Mr Ws income at that time, as well the level 
of outgoings he had, including other fixed loan repayments, its difficult for me to 
conclude that this loan was affordable for Mr W at that time, and Ill be provisionally 
upholding this complaint on that basis.
However, when a person has borrowed money and has had the benefit of that 
money, as Mr W has in this instance, its nearly always going to the case that this 
service considers it fair that that person pays that money back. And I think thats the 
case here.
But I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr W should have to pay interest, fees, 
and charges on the loan amount. And while Im aware that Barclays have a 
responsibility to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, I also dont 
feel that it fair that Mr W should incur adverse information on his credit file as a result 
of this loan, considering the circumstances here.
It follows then that my provisional decision is that Barclays should reimburse all 
interest, fees, and charges back to Mr Ws loan account. If, following these 
reimbursements, a balance remains outstanding, Barclays should contact Mr W to 
arrange an affordable payment plan to clear the outstanding balance. Alternatively, if 
Mr Ws account is in credit following the reimbursements described above, any credit 
amount should be paid to Mr W.
Barclays should also remove all adverse information from Mr Ws credit file relating to 
this account.If the need to arrange a payment plan with Mr W arises on the basis described 
above, this also shouldnt be recorded on Mr Ws credit file  the exception being if 
Mr W doesnt meet the payments of any arranged affordable payment plan such that 
it would be appropriate to record a default against his credit file for non-payment of 
that affordable plan, following reasonable attempts to contact Mr W about this.
Finally, Barclays should make a payment of £100 to Mr W for the inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
I believe that the above represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, 
and I am provisionally upholding this complaint on that basis.
In my provisional decision I gave both Mr W and Barclays the opportunity to provide any 
further comments or additional information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
a final decision. 
Mr W confirmed that he had nothing further to add. However, while agreeing with the spirit of 
my decision, Barclays drew my attention to the fact that Mr W is currently in an IVA and 
suggested that this might affect the details of the corrective action that I had provisionally 
instructed them to take.
Specifically, Barclays suggested that it wouldnt be appropriate for them to amend Mr Ws 
credit file as this might conflict with the report of the IVA. Barclays also suggested that any 
reimbursements of interest, fees, and charges should be sent to the IVA practitioner, rather 
than to Mr W.
Id like to thank Barclays for bringing Mr Ws IVA to my attention. This service contacted Mr 
Ws IVA practitioner and explained the present situation. Furthermore, this service 
specifically asked the IVA practitioner if they retained an interest in the account in question 
and whether they would object to our instructing Barclays to make a payment to Mr W of any 
relevant reimbursements of interest, fees, and charges. Finally, this service asked the IVA 
practitioner if they had any objection to this service instructing Barclays to remove the 
adverse reporting from Mr Ws credit file, in line with my provisional decision.
The IVA practitioner responded and advised that they didnt retain an interest in this account. 
The IVA practitioner also didnt raise any objections to this service instructing Barclays to 
pay relevant interest, fees, and charges reimbursements to Mr W, or with this service 
instructing Barclays to remove the adverse reporting from Mr Ws credit file.
As such, I see no reason not to uphold this complaint on the basis outlined in my provisional 
decision, and my final decision will therefore be a confirmation of my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse all interest, fees, and charges back to Mr Ws loan account. 
If, following these reimbursements, a balance remains outstanding, Barclays must contact 
Mr W to arrange an affordable payment plan to clear the outstanding balance. 
Alternatively, if following the reimbursements, Mr Ws account is in credit in MR Ws favour, 
Barclays must pay any credit amount must directly to Mr W.
Barclays must also remove all adverse reporting information from Mr Ws credit file relating 
to this loan account.If the need to arrange a payment plan with Mr W arises on the basis described above, this 
payment plan also mustnt be recorded on Mr Ws credit file  the exception being if Mr W 
doesnt meet the payments of any arranged affordable payment plan such that it would be 
appropriate to record a default against his credit file for non-payment of that affordable plan, 
following reasonable attempts by Barclays to contact Mr W about this.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £100 to Mr W for the inconvenience this matter
has caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman