DRN-1681094
The complaint
Mr M says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat didnt act reasonably when he informed it 
that he was in financial difficulties. Mr M also feels that the interest on the repayment plan 
that was agreed was too high. 
Mr M also has a complaint about irresponsible lending. This has been considered 
separately. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Cashfloat provided to Mr M on 15 July 2016 for 
£350. This was due to be repaid in two instalments of £258. The first repayment was due on 
26 August 2016 and the second was due a month later. 
Mr M was unable to pay the instalments due to his employment situation. Cashfloat and 
Mr M then agreed that he would repay this loan over six months rather than two. Cashfloat 
reduced his repayments accordingly. Mr M paid a total of £554.99 into the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Cashfloat had acted reasonably 
when Mr M had informed it about his financial hardship. And the interest charged on the new 
arrangement wasnt excessive. 
Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. He didnt add anything further to his original 
complaint points. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M informed Cashfloat shortly after the loan started that he would have problems making 
the repayments. Cashfloat looked into what Mr M had said, and the information he provided, 
and then agreed to restructure the loan to reduce the monthly repayments. Due to the longer 
term Mr M paid a slightly higher amount of interest than he wouldve under the original loan, 
but his repayments were lower. 
As far as I can see Mr M agreed with all of this at the time. And I think its reasonable to say 
that Cashfloat acted quickly to resolve this situation and reached what was an acceptable 
compromise. I dont think it charged too much interest. 
So given all of this Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman