DRN-3030922
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card account. Mrs T initially said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI in 1988. However, 
we now understand the PPI was sold much later than this, in 2000.
To keep things consistent Ill refer mainly to Lloyds.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs Ts representative 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but 
repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I think its fair to say that much of the information Mrs T and her representative gave us 
about the PPI sale and her circumstances of the time isnt completely consistent. 
Nevertheless, I do accept these events were a while ago and that recalling things might be 
difficult.
However, from Lloydss records, I can see the PPI was sold to Mrs T after shed already had 
her credit card account for around 12 years. So the sale of the PPI was in 2000, not in 1998 
as Mrs T first said. And as she had been operating the card without PPI for all that time, I 
think that when it was added, its far more likely she agreed to the cover and that she would 
have obviously known it wasnt compulsory with her card account.
We no longer have any original documentation from the sale to refer to, but businesses 
arent required to keep records indefinitely. However, from looking over Mrs Ts credit card 
monthly statements, I see that the charges for PPI periodically started to appear on these in 
early 2000, listed as PAYMENTS INSURANCE - PREMIUM. If shed not given her consent, 
I think Mrs T would have been prompted to ask what the new charges were for. Theres no 
evidence she did this, so I think its far more likely she agreed to the PPI being added to her 
card account after discussing it with Lloyds in 2000. 
On balance, I think Lloyds is much more likely to have obtained her consent.
Lloyds accepts that it may well have recommended the PPI to Mrs T as part of an advised 
sale, so it had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for her. In my view, the 
evidence about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for the cover and 
she had only limited other means to fall back on in the event of something unexpected 
happening, such as losing her job or being unable to work. 
I note there are certain inconsistencies about her job situation of that time period, with Mrs 
Ts representative twice telling us she was unemployed. However, we now know she was 
actually employed and had been since at least 1998. Her job didnt come with any additional 
sick pay. So, noting that if successfully claimed on, this type of PPI would have paid off a 
percentage of her existing credit card balance for up to a year, I think this would have been 
of use to Mrs T. This would have been in addition to any other means she had. 
Mrs Ts representatives also said a number of other things to imply the PPI wasnt suitable 
for her. Im afraid I consider these things to be mainly irrelevant, including the point about 
Mrs T becoming not eligible for the policy benefits upon reaching the age of 75; Mrs T was 
only in her 40s at the time of the sale. Ive also seen nothing that would have made claiming 
for back or mental problems especially onerous for Mrs T either, as was alleged on her 
behalf. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable for her.
Its obviously possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been, particularly around the limitations and exclusions of the PPI cover. But as 
Ive said, she chose to take it out after operating her card for a long time without it, so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt wrong for her as Ive mentioned above, or too 
dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was 
likely given at the point of sale. It also looks like it was affordable for her so it seems like it 
would have been useful if something went wrong. 
I have considered with care what was said about Mrs Ts pre-existing health and considered 
this against the policy rules about what might have been excluded from claims. The first 
medical issue mentioned on her behalf relates to a 1967 operation, some 33 years before 
the PPI sale. The second related to migraines from the 1970s. However, whilst Im sure 
these would have been issues of concern for Mrs T at the time, it wasnt made clear why 
they would have caused problems for Mrs T when making future claims or indeed, made her 
act differently. No evidence or details were provided about them, and having looked at the 
policy rules, I dont think these previous medical issues would have put Mrs T off from taking 
the cover out. There was also nothing about Mrs Ts employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for her to claim. 
So overall, I consider that Mrs T would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think it provided a useful benefit 
given her circumstances. I therefore dont think Mrs T would have declined the policy even if 
Lloyds could have done a better job at explaining things.
Mrs Ts representative raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it says 
apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant 
Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ts representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ts individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ts particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back any of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint or make any 
award in favour of her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman