DRN-3529881
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loan had a very high interest rate and shes since also complained it was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Ms S with a loan for £1,000.00 in February 2020. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and 18-month term. This meant that the total amount of £4,114.08, including 
interest of £3,114.08, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £228.56.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms S complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Ms S unfairly. So he didnt think that Ms S complaint should be upheld.   
Ms S disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 27 May 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 27 May 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold          
Ms S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that my experience of L2Gs loan agreements was that the amount of 
interest and the interest rate were clearly set out on it. And Ms S hadnt disputed signing a 
loan agreement. So I thought that Ms S was more likely than not to have been made aware 
of the interest payable and the terms of her loan and so I wasnt intending to uphold this part 
of Ms S complaint.
However, I then explained that Ms S had since complained about the affordability of her loan 
and I was satisfied that L2G had had sufficient opportunity to address this part of her 
complaint. So I proceeded to look at this matter. 
I then went on to set out that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And I used this approach to help me decide Ms S 
complaint. 
I explained that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
meant was that L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms S could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I started this section of my provisional decision by explaining that L2G might argue that a 
light touch assessment was proportionate here. But Im mindful that any credit check it is 
likely to have carried out was more likely than not to have shown that Ms S was already 
significantly indebted and that she had a history of taking out high cost credit. 
So I was persuaded by what Ms S had said about her loan being unaffordable for her. And 
while it was possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than any financial difficulty, I 
added that my experience of these types of cases suggested that this was unlikely, I was 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have shown that 
Ms S wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without experiencing undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms S. And as L2G provided 
Ms S with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards her. 
Ms S was being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with in the first place. So I was intending to find that Ms S lost out because of 
what L2G did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S confirmed receiving my provisional decision. She said that she agreed with it and 
confirmed that she had nothing further to provide ahead of my final decision.
L2G responded saying it wasnt attempting to withhold information from us and provided its 
full business file on the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Ms S complaint 
in part. And while L2G has now provided its business file it hasnt provided any further 
arguments for me to consider. Furthermore, having considered the information in L2Gs 
business file, including the checks it carried out and the information it saw, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision regarding the 
affordability of this loan for Ms S. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still partially upholding Ms S complaint. 
And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Ms S
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Ms S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms S made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. If Ms S has 
already repaid more than £1,000.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms S;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Ms S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind L2G of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if it 
intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain with it, after all adjustments 
have been made to the account and its the case that Ms S is experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 27 May 2022, Im 
partially upholding Ms S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman