DRN-3045327
The complaint
Mr T complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) incorrectly told him his payment 
had failed.
 
What happened
Mr T made a payment to CRS on 1 March 2021. On 22 March 2021 CRS emailed Mr T to 
say his payment had failed. CRS has subsequently explained this was a mistake caused by 
the way payment arrangements were set up on its systems. 
Mr T complained and CRS apologised for its error but didnt offer any compensation. Mr T 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought CRS 
had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr T asked to 
appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that after Mr T received CRS email on 22 March 2021 he called and spoke with a 
member of staff. CRS confirmed the email was sent in error and caused because his 
payment plan had been reset on its systems. So whilst I agree there was an error, Mr T was 
quickly given the correct position when he called. And that limited the impact of CRS 
mistake. 
Ive read CRS final response and can see it accepts an error was made and offered 
apologies. I understand Mr T was concerned about the email he received but the correct 
position was given when he called on 22 March 2021. We dont fine or punish businesses for 
making a mistake. Our awards seek to recognise the impact of a business error on its 
customer. 
In this case, Im satisfied the impact was limited because CRS quickly explained the email 
was sent in error. Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied that an apology was 
a fair way to resolve Mr Ts complaint. As Im satisfied CRS dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly 
Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
