DRN-2883954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage in 
September 1999.
They say they the PPI wasnt right for them, that they didnt want it and didnt need it.
What happened
The policy was taken out jointly with Mr and Mrs D each having the benefit of 50% of the 
cover. The PPI would have covered mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if one of 
them was unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed on to me.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs D have already been compensated for commission and profit 
share that BoS received from the sale and our adjudicator has said that the offer was fair, so 
I wont comment further on that here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say BoS recommended that they take out the PPI and BoS has agreed 
that it recommended it. That means it had to make sure the policy was suitable and the 
information provided was clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen anything to 
suggest BoS didnt do this.
Ive looked carefully at the documents from the time of sale. First, Ive noticed that 
when they first obtained a mortgage quote it included PPI. I then see that on their 
mortgage application, Mr and Mrs D showed they were interested in taking out PPI by 
each signing and dating the section of the form where BoS made a recommendation 
about taking out the cover. If they werent interested it was open to them to simply 
leave this part of the form blank.
I also see Mr and Mrs D went on to complete a mortgage repayments insurance 
application on which they set out the level of cover they each wanted and answered 
some questions to show they were eligible for it and not affected by any of the main 
policy exclusions. They then both signed the form  so even if it was completed for 
them by the BoS representative, I would have expected them to check it before 
signing. 
Although I dont have all the paperwork from the time, Ive seen enough for me to 
think that Mr and Mrs D were aware at the time that they were taking out PPI to help 
protect their mortgage repayments. Based on that, it looks to me as if they made the 
decision to take the cover. And whilst Ive seen their suggestion that they felt they 
were pushed into taking out the PPI because it was strongly recommended in 
correspondence they received from BoS after meeting its representative, I dont think 
thats the same as not giving them a choice about taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs D were both eligible for the PPI and werent affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. So I dont think they would have found it difficult if they 
needed to make a claim. Although it looks as if Mr D was only entitled to statutory sick 
pay at the time of the PPI sale, Mrs D has said she entitled to around 4 weeks of 
benefits from her employer if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness, before 
reverting to statutory sick pay. Mrs D also told us about having a very good level of 
savings, plus an income protection policy that would pay 75% of her salary. 
Ive taken all this into careful consideration but I still think the policy was suitable. As Ive 
mentioned above, the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months following a 
successful claim and in addition to any work benefits. Ive also noted that Mrs Ds 
income protection policy wouldnt have paid out for at least 6 months if she wasnt able 
to work, whereas a claim on the PPI could be made after 30 days. I should also say that 
from what I know about these policies, they often pay out only in specific circumstances. 
And Ive kept in mind that Mrs Ds sick pay entitlement would have lasted for only 4 
weeks. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs D have told us about their savings. Although we 
know that there were good financial resources to fall back on if Mr and Mrs D needed 
them, Ive kept mind that they made the decision to take out the PPI cover and to pay the 
monthly premiums. So I think they valued the protection that the PPI cover would offer 
and knowing that they would not have to dig into savings that they were keeping to one 
side for when future plans required having access to them. Ultimately, therefore, given 
the serious consequences of defaulting on mortgage repayments, I think that Mr and Mrs 
D would have found the policy useful.
The policy initially cost around £32 month and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£317 each. So if either Mr or Mrs D made a successful claim, I think the policy would 
have benefitted them more than it cost. The cost and benefit of the cover was set out on 
the separate PPI application form  so I think BoS made them aware of this before they 
signed for the policy.
Its possible BoS could have provided more information about the policy and the things 
the policy didnt cover. But I havent seen enough to cause me to think that Mr and Mrs D 
would have been affected by any of these, so I dont think this information would have 
made Mr and Mrs D change their minds about taking out the policy.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that Ive also taken into account what theyve both said in 
response to our adjudicators view, but unfortunately it doesnt change my decision. Im 
sorry to have to disappoint Mr and Mrs D on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman