DRN-2376285
The complaint
Mr H believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing a loan hed applied for.
What happened
In June 2016 Mr H took out a £6,500 loan with Avantcredit, to be repaid over 36 months with 
repayments of £309.17 a month. This loan was repaid in May 2018.
Mr H has complained that Avantcredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. He 
said he was in considerable financial hardship at the time, and that Avantcredit shouldnt 
have lent him any money because of his debt levels. Avantcredit didnt agree, so Mr H 
brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Avantcredit asked Mr H for details of his income and expenditure, and 
they verified his income from bank statements. They also carried out a credit search which 
showed what Mr H was paying each month to his credit commitments. She said that 
Avantcredits calculations showed the new loan was affordable for Mr H, and she didnt think 
there was anything in the information Avantcredit had gathered that meant they shouldnt 
have agreed the loan.
While Mr H had said the credit search wasnt an accurate reflection of his financial position, 
the investigator said shed only expect Avantcredit to make their decision on the information 
available to them at the time. And the investigator thought Avantcredit had conducted 
reasonable and proportionate checks when approving the loan. So she didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said that, at the time he took out the loan with 
Avantcredit, hed had multiple loans with short-term payday lenders. And hes provided bank 
statements from 16 March to 3 May 2016, to show his financial situation at the time. He 
thinks that Avantcredit should be required to do checks that are comprehensive and not 
selective. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen the documents Avantcredit checked at the time they approved Mr Hs loan. Hed 
declared a monthly income of £3,650 and theyd verified this from bank statements to be 
£3,614. The affordability checks were done on the verified income, which is what Id expect.
Mr H had declared monthly outgoings of £1,157 for his mortgage and household bills, 
including travel costs and food. He also declared that he owed a total of £2,212 with eight 
different short-term payday lenders; and another £5,450 on credit cards. The Avantcredit 
loan was to be used to clear all of the short-term lending.
Avantcredit also did a credit check which showed Mr H had taken out eight credit accounts in 
the previous three months, and that he owed a total of £9,126 for which he paid £1,034 a 
month. This information ties in with the short-term lending Mr H had declared, although the 
total amount he owed was higher than had been declared. The credit search also showed 
that, although Mr H had a late payment six months earlier, his accounts were all up to date 
and hed had no defaults. And the bank statement Mr H had provided didnt show anything 
that Mr H hadnt declared. 
With a verified monthly income of £3,614, monthly household bills of £1,157 and total credit 
commitments of £1,034 a month; this wouldve left Mr H with £1,423 disposable income a 
month. Avantcredits loan payment was £309 a month, and the loan was to be used to repay 
Mr Hs short-term lending which wouldve further reduced his outgoings. Given this, Im 
satisfied that the checks Avantcredit did were reasonable and proportionate and the loan 
was showing as affordable. So I wouldnt expect them to have done any further checks, such 
as reviewing more bank statements for Mr H.
The additional bank statements Mr H has now provided show a considerable amount of 
borrowing from short-term payday lenders. But these werent provided to Avantcredit at the 
time of the application. And, I cant say Avantcredit have done anything wrong by not taking 
into consideration things they werent aware of at the time. So I wont be asking them to 
refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC trading as Avantcredit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman