DRN-3360084
The complaint
Mrs F says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Marisota, 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that interest and late payment charges she paid 
on the account from October 2013 be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a Marisota catalogue shopping account J D Williams provided to 
Mrs F. The account was opened in October 2013 when Mrs F was given an initial credit 
limit of £150. This limit was increased 7 times until it eventually reached £2250 in 
September 2015. 
Mrs F also complained to us about a second account she held with J D Williams  a Simply 
Be account  but our adjudicator noted that the only transaction made on this account was 
later cancelled. So I wont be looking at that account in my decision.
JD Williams said it said it carried out appropriate checks given the relatively low level of 
credit given. In March 2017 JD Williams entered into a repayment plan with Mrs F which 
avoided interest and other charges being added to her account. 
Our adjudicator first explained why she considered that Mrs Fs complaint had been 
brought to us in time under our rules. I see that J D Williams hasnt disagreed with that 
finding so I dont need to consider that here. 
Our adjudicator then partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint and thought that J D Williams 
ought to have realised Mrs F simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further 
credit by the time it offered Mrs F the increased credit limit on her account to £400 in 
February 2014. As J D Williams disagreed with what they said, the complaint has now 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
F could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mrs F with any further credit from February 2014 onwards, when her credit limit 
was increased from £250 to £400. Our adjudicator did this having received copies of 
Mrs Fs payslips and bank statements. In particular, she noticed that Mrs Fs committed 
expenditure appeared to be at such a level that she was only left with £30 of disposable 
income. And by the time Mrs F was given her fifth increase, in September 2014, her 
committed expenditure was so high that she was left with a disposable income of minus 
£880. But by February 2014 Mrs Fs financial position had already deteriorated to the 
extent that she wasnt in a position to sustainably support the further borrowing that 
J D Williams had made available to her. 
J D Williams didnt agree with what our adjudicator said. It said that Mrs Fs credit limit 
increases were modest, that she met her minimum account payments and only used a 
limited amount of her available credit. It also pointed out that Mrs F did not show signs of 
financial difficulties until August 2016 and didnt contact J D Williams until March 2017 to 
say she was having problems meeting her payments.
Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams 
lending history with Mrs F, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
If so, that would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have increased 
Mrs Fs credit limits.
When Mrs F opened her account in October 2013, J D Williams has told us there were no 
signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the checks, and 
taking into account the low opening credit limit of £150 she was given, I dont think there is 
anything to suggest that it would have been unreasonable for J D Williams to have 
approved the account. J D Williams didnt ask about Mrs Fs income, and this may have 
helped it begin to build a picture of Mrs Fs financial circumstances. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Fs case, however, I agree with our adjudicator 
that a point was reached when J D Williams ought to have taken proportionate steps to 
check whether she may have been getting into difficulty with managing her money. I agree that point came in February 2014 when Mrs Fs credit was increased to £400  more than 
double the opening credit limit. Whilst Ive seen that whilst Mrs F was making above 
minimum payments to her account, and hadnt missed any payments, her bank statements 
showed she was operating from her overdraft for much of the time and that her income 
wasnt enough to meet the total cost of her daily living expenses and other debt 
commitments. These debt commitments include what appears to be a regular reliance on 
short-term loans. So I think J D Williams ought to have been able to see by this point that 
there was a significant risk that by increasing her credit limit in these circumstances would 
lead to her indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
It follows that I think proportionate checks, such as asking Mrs F about her other 
committed expenditure, will have likely shown J D Williams that by February 2014 Mrs F 
was already struggling to manage the credit and still keep up with her day-to-day living 
expenses alongside her other debt commitments. I also note that from July 2014 the 
balance on her account gradually increased. And Ive seen that Mrs Fs overall financial 
position continued to worsen, to the point she had a minus-level of disposable income 
after meeting her day-to-day living expenses and sums owed to other creditors. 
I consider that J D Williams actions in further increasing Mrs Fs credit limits on this 
account unfairly prolonged her indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt 
afford over an extended period of time, with the result that her indebtedness continued to 
increase. 
I think that Mrs F therefore lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit 
from February 2014 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mrs Fs 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So J D Williams should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mrs Fs account to ensure that from 1 February 2014 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to £250, including any buy now pay later interest 
(being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mrs F to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mrs F has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from 1 February 2014 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs F, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D Williams 
should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Fs credit file from 1 February 
2014 onwards.HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Given that J D Williams sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third party in 
January 2018, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Mrs F an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Fs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman