DRN-1205955
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in June 2008. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI when he took 
out a credit card online. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card in June 2008. He was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The policy cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It couldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr M was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicator so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
      I think BOS made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. Ive seen a copy of the credit 
agreement that was sent to him after he applied for the card online and I can see that the 
PPI was presented as being optional. Mr M ticked the box to confirm he wished to purchase 
it and then signed the credit agreement.
      BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to establish the suitability of the 
policy for Mr M; this was a decision that he needed to make for himself. 
      Its possible the information BOS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  he told us he was employed 
and in good health. So, it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But BOS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:       When the policy was sold, BOS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because BOS didnt 
tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
      To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman