DRN-3831410
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by  N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited  trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).
What happened
In October 2019 Mr H acquired a used car funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
Northridge. The car cost £18,264.99, was around one year old and had covered around 
11,046 miles.
Mr H paid a deposit of £1,000 and was due to pay £293.20 for 48 months, followed by a final 
payment of £8,155.55 if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
Mr H says the car immediately had issues with it. He said the engine lacked power, it was 
leaking oil and had trouble going into gear.
Around February 2020 it appears Mr H asked to reject the car. Northridge explained he 
couldnt reject it, but he had a right for the car to be repaired. The clutch and flywheel were 
replaced.
Mr H continued to say the car had issues with it, and at the end of March 2020 the gearbox 
failed when Mr H was on the motorway. Mr H again asked to reject the car.
In June 2020 the gearbox was replaced on the car, it having covered 16,565 miles. It 
appears the dealer gave Mr H a courtesy car for this period, but there was a dispute over 
returning this once the car was repaired. Mr H stopped making payments towards the 
agreement in August 2020. 
In October 2020 Mr H says the car failed again on the motorway. In November 2020 it 
appears the car went in for a repair and a courtesy car was provided. In January 2021 the 
dealer said Mr H wouldnt collect his car or return the courtesy car. 
Mr H said the car wasnt repaired as it was making a tapping noise. Northridge wrote to Mr H 
explaining he had to collect the car. It said he couldnt reject the car as it had been repaired.
At this time Mr H first made our service aware of the issue.
In May 2021 the car broke down again. Mr H says he again asked to reject the car and didnt 
authorise repairs. At this point the car had covered 20,096 miles. The cars engine was 
replaced by the dealer. It didnt provide Mr H a courtesy car as it said he wouldnt return the 
previous ones and it had to get the Police involved.
The car was returned to Mr H, but he said the gearbox was still rough and the engine rattled. 
In July 2021 he again asked Northridge to reject the car. Northridge said Mr H would need to 
take the car to the dealer. 
In August 2021 Mr H said the car broke down again as it overheated. It was returned to the 
dealer who repaired a coolant pipe. Mr H still said the engine and gearbox had issues. The 
mileage around this time was 22,762.
Mr H said the issues continued. At this point Northridge said to Mr H that it would arrange for 
an independent inspection to be carried out on the car, as it didnt think there was anything 
wrong with it. Mr H declined this.
In September 2021 Northridge issued its final response. It said, in summary, that the issue 
with the engine failing didnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied 
as when the engine failed the car had travelled over 11,000 miles since Mr H got it. And it 
said the car was now fault free.
Mr H disagreed. He said, in summary, that the car still had ongoing issues with the gearbox 
and lack of power. He also said the car had other issues with the sunroof, parking system, 
engine management lights, batteries, traction control and the hill assist function. 
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he thought the car had issues 
with the gearbox and engine when it was supplied to Mr H. He said Mr H had a right to get 
the gearbox repaired, but not to reject the car at this time. He said Mr H lost his right to reject 
the car for the engine issue as he agreed to a repair. And he said he didnt have enough 
evidence to say if there were ongoing issues with the car.
Mr H disagreed. He said the gearbox was replaced for a second time in October 2020 . He 
said he didnt agree for the car to be repaired and tried to hand it back. Our investigator 
explained there wasnt any evidence of a second gearbox replacement. And he said by 
driving the car after it was repaired Mr H had accepted the repairs and so lost the right to 
reject.
Mr H remained unhappy and so the case was passed to me for a decision. I asked 
Northridge to send some further information about when Mr H agreed to the repairs. Ill 
comment on this below.
I sent Mr H and Northridge a provisional decision on 9 November 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr H complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mr Hs complaint against Northridge.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Northridge here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. The CRA also 
explains that the durability of goods can be considered as part of whether they are of 
satisfactory quality.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that Mr Hs car was used. But, it was only around 
one year old and had covered just over 11,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect it to be in good condition, free from anything other than very minor faults and would 
expect trouble free motoring for some time.
Im satisfied this car had issues with the clutch and flywheel, gearbox and the engine. I say 
this as all of these parts needed to be replaced, which I can see was completed from the job sheets. 
Separately and individually, Im satisfied all of these faults meant the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I say this as the clutch and flywheel needed to be 
replaced quite soon after Mr H got the car. So, Im satisfied this fault was likely present or 
developing at the point of supply. In relation to the gearbox and engine failure, these parts 
failed far sooner than I think a reasonable person would expect. So, Im satisfied this meant 
the car wasnt durable when supplied and so also of unsatisfactory quality for these reasons.
Putting the other potential later issues aside, collectively the fact the car needed a new 
clutch, gearbox and engine in the time it did also paints a picture of the overall quality of the 
car when Mr H acquired it.
So, having found the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I need to consider if Northridge needs 
to do anything further to put things right. It says the car has now been fully repaired, which 
means Mr Hs rights under the CRA have been met.
One of the remedies under the CRA for goods being of unsatisfactory quality is a repair. So, 
potentially, Mr Hs rights have been met here. But, Mr H says he continually tried to reject 
the car.  
This is important. I say this because, as Northridge have correctly pointed out, Mr H would 
lose his right to reject the car if he agreed to have it repaired. Northridge says Mr H willingly 
and knowingly entered into agreements to repair the car. Mr H says he continually asked to 
reject it. So, I think the crux of this complaint is whether Mr H had a right to reject the car at 
any point and if he exercised this right  or if he agreed to the repairs.
At the point of the first fault with the clutch, I agree with what Northridge explained to Mr H in 
the letter it sent to him in February 2020. It explained as Mr H had raised the concerns 
outside of the first 30 days of the car being supplied to him, he had a right for the car to be 
repaired, but not to reject it. I can see a repair was carried out here.
But, at the point of the second and third failures  the failure of the gearbox and engine - Im 
satisfied Mr H did have a right to reject the car. I say this as the CRA explains a consumer 
has the right to reject if:
after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not conform to the contract
Im satisfied at the time the gearbox failed, the car had already been subject to a repair for 
an issue which meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. As another issue arose which 
also meant the goods were not of satisfactory quality, the goods did not conform to the 
contract following the repair. 
The same logic can be applied to the point the engine needed replacing  except here two 
attempts at repair had been completed. And given the issue with the coolant leak appears to 
be linked to the engine repair, this would also apply.
So, in summary, Im satisfied Mr H had a right to reject the car at the points the faults 
occurred with the gearbox, engine and coolant leak.
What I then need to consider is whether Mr H exercised his right to reject or if he, as 
Northridge has said, authorised the repairs.
Ive considered what Mr H says here. He has been consistent in saying he continually tried 
to reject the car. It appears this was the case when he initially complained to Northridge from its response. I can see from emails that between the gearbox failing and it being repaired he 
asked to reject the car several times. And on a phone call from this time with Northridge he 
said Im still trying to get a rejection on this car. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied its most likely Mr H exercised his right to reject when he had 
the right to. 
Northridge have said Mr H asked to reject the car but then willingly and knowingly accepted 
repairs  effectively changing his mind. Ive asked it several times for some evidence of this, 
for instance by providing a copy of its contact notes from the time to see what was discussed 
with Mr H. But it hasnt provided these. I havent seen any evidence Northridge discussed 
rejection of the car with Mr H as an option, despite him exercising this right. 
Mr H says he only agreed to repair the car because Northridge refused to allow him to reject 
it. The key point here is that I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely Mr H 
agreed to the repairs as an alternative to being given the option to reject as he wished.
So, in summary, Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Im 
satisfied under the CRA Mr H had the right to reject it when it went wrong following the initial 
repairs. Im satisfied he attempted to exercise this right. And I havent seen evidence to 
suggest this was discussed, nor that he changed his mind and agreed to the repairs instead 
of the rejection. It follows all of this that Im satisfied Mr H should have the right to reject the 
car.
Ive considered that Northridge believes Mr H damaged the car through his driving style. But 
I havent seen enough to make me think on balance its likely this was the case. So, this 
doesnt change my opinion.
Ive considered that Mr H says the gearbox was also replaced for a second time and he 
asked to reject at this point as well. Northridge says it has provided all of the job cards from 
the time, which dont appear to show this. Im not sure what happened here, but ultimately I 
dont need to make a finding on this as it wouldnt affect the outcome Ive reached nor the 
redress.
I now need to consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. 
I think its fair to say the car hasnt performed as it should since Mr H got it. I appreciate 
Northridges stance that the car was successfully repaired each time it went wrong, but given 
Mr H complained about gearbox and engine issues very shortly after he got it, has 
continually complained about the same issues, and multiple repairs needed to be done, Im 
not convinced its likely this was the case. 
I can appreciate Northridges point that it may have been helpful if Mr H agreed to the 
independent inspection it offered. But, that being said, Mr H has provided some pictures and 
videos that show some of the issues with the car hes recently described. So I think on 
balance its most likely these faults are occurring on the car and it still isnt performing as it 
should.
That being said, I also need to consider that at the most recent MOT, the car had covered 
around 33,470 miles  or roughly 22,000 miles since Mr H got it. So, while Im satisfied Mr H 
has had impaired use of the car, Im also satisfied hes been able to drive it and has had 
reasonable use from it.
So, thinking about all of this, I think its reasonable Northridge reimburse 10% of all 
repayments made towards the agreement. Im aware Mr H stopped paying for the car some time ago, so Northridge can use this amount to reduce the arrears on the account. From 
when Mr H stopped paying, it should reduce the arrears by 10% of the monthly amount due.
I have considered whether an additional award should be made for the times Mr H wasnt 
given a courtesy car when his was being repaired. I dont know for sure what happened 
here. But, from what Ive seen from the direct contact between the dealer and Northridge, I 
can see why the dealer thought it was reasonable not to provide Mr H with a courtesy car. I 
think, effectively, Mr H hasnt mitigated his losses here. So I dont think an additional award 
should be made for this.
Im also satisfied Mr H has suffered distress and inconvenience because of what went 
wrong. Hes had to take the car to be repaired on multiple occasions and it must have been 
distressing for it to breakdown. So, I think Northridge should pay him £100 to reflect this.
I understand Mr H stopped paying for the car. It appears he did so after he had the right to 
reject it. So, I think the negative information should be removed from his credit file.
Finally, it appears Mr H will be left here with a significant amount of arrears on the account. 
Id like to politely remind Northridge to treat his situation with forbearance and due 
consideration.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or evidence. Mr H 
didnt reply. Northridge got in touch and said it wasnt happy with my decision. It made 
various points for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Northridge said in response to my provisional decision. 
Northridge again said Mr H agreed to the repairs knowingly and willingly and so he lost his 
right to reject the car. But it still didnt provide any evidence to show what happened here. I 
still havent seen enough to persuade me Mr H didnt only agree to the repairs after he was 
refused the right to reject. So, I still dont agree its most likely Mr H authorised the repairs as 
an alternative to being allowed to reject the car - which Im still satisfied he had a right to.
Northridge also said Mr H continued to drive the car after it was repaired and so he doesnt 
have the right to reject. I agree, ideally, that Mr H wouldve stopped driving the car as he was 
seeking to reject it. But, I need to consider whats fair and reasonable here. I still think, on 
balance, the car was only repaired after Mr H asked to reject it. Practically, I assume at this 
point Mr H needed a car. So, I dont think the fact he drove it after the repairs should mean 
he loses his right to reject. 
Northridge reiterated that it offered Mr H an independent report to be carried out on the car. I 
agree with it here that this would likely have been of benefit. But, Mr H didnt have to agree 
to this. And, Im satisfied I have enough evidence to make a fair and reasonable decision 
without it.
Northridge also said Mr H hadnt always been truthful in his submissions. But, Ive based my 
decision on the evidence at hand and what I think likely happened. 
I appreciate Northridge said it doesnt believe Mr H ever intended to pay for the car and has 
driven thousands of miles in it. But, as I explained above, even when allowing him to reject, I still think its reasonable Mr H is responsible for the large majority of the repayments due 
towards the agreement. So I dont think Northridge is unduly losing out here. Mr H should 
discuss the arrears due with Northridge directly. And as I said in my provisional decision, it 
should treat his situation with forbearance and due consideration.
I want to reassure Northridge Ive carefully considered everything else it said in response to 
my provisional decision. But, this doesnt change my opinion. 
After considering everything again, along with Northridges comments, I still think this 
complaint should be upheld. This is due to the reasons I explained in my provisional decision 
and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct N.I.I.B. Group Limited  trading as 
Northridge Finance to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mr H
Reimburse the deposit of £1,000 from 31 October 2019* **
Reimburse Mr H 10% of all repayments made towards the agreement* **
For the period Mr H wasnt paying towards the agreement, reduce the arrears by the 
equivalent of 10% of the monthly repayments due
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file
Pay Mr H £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused ***
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** Northridge can use these amounts to reduce the level of arrears on the account
***Northridge should pay this directly to Mr H
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman