DRN-2819222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about their insurer, AXA Insurance Limited (AXA) for their landlord 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint relates to how AXA treated their policy when the property to which 
it related was empty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a property which they planned to rent out from March 2020. Anticipating 
tenants moving into the property from 5 March 2020, Mr and Mrs W took out a landlord 
insurance policy with AXA in February 2020, to come into effect from 8 March 2020. 
However, the prospective tenants were unable to move into the property because of 
unforeseen circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W phoned AXA on 16 March to inform them of the circumstances and that there 
would be delays in finding new tenants because of the national lockdown the government 
was putting in place in response to the Covid Pandemic. Consequently, the property would 
be unoccupied. In response, AXA told Mr and Mrs W that, under the terms and conditions of 
the policy in respect of unoccupied properties, they would continue to provide full cover for 
the property until 7 April 2020 (that is, 30 days after the inception of the policy). After this 
point cover would be restricted to fire, aircraft, explosion and storm for a further 30 days. 
AXA agreed to contact Mr and Mrs W shortly before 7 April to see what the position was.
Subsequently, AXA wrote to Mr and Mrs W on 7 April, stating that they would have to cancel 
their policy due to being unable to cover empty buildings. The letter went on to state that the 
policy would be cancelled on 7 May 2020. The accompanying email to the letter noted that 
the policy would be restricted (as previously advised) and drew attention to the empty 
buildings conditions that Mr and Mrs W had to comply with as set out in the policy.
Unhappy at this decision and not having been contacted by AXA as they had expected,     
Mr and Mrs W contacted AXA on 8 April to complain, stating that they had been led to 
believe during the earlier conversation with AXA that cover would continue for a further three 
months.  Mr and Mrs W also set out the impact of the national lockdown on their ability to 
market the property and secure new tenants. AXA then said that after the 30 day period (to 7 
May) they would review the policy, and look to extend cover by a further 30 days (to 7 June).
AXA also considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, but in their Final Response Letter of 1 May 
2020 they did not uphold it. AXA concluded that they had followed the correct process in 
restricting cover due to Mr and Mrs Ws property being unoccupied. Mr and Mrs W contacted 
AXA on 7 May and AXA offered to extend restricted cover for a further 30 days (to 7 June) 
and review the position at that point. But they indicated that there was a good possibility that 
the policy would be cancelled at that point. Mr and Mrs W then cancelled their policy later on 
7 May 2020 having taken out cover with another insurer. AXA issued a pro rata refund of the 
premiums paid for the policy.
Unhappy at AXAs rejection of their complaint, Mr and Mrs W subsequently complained to 
this service in October 2020. They believed that they had been treated unfairly by AXA 
through the cancellation of their policy (in April 2020), when they maintain that they were told 
over the phone that it would be reviewed after a three month period had elapsed.  
             
Mr and Mrs W were also unhappy that AXAs decision didnt take account of the 
circumstances of the national lockdown. Mr and Mrs W told us that AXAs decision meant 
that they had to insure through another insurer at extra cost, meaning that they suffered 
financial loss, as well as the distress and inconvenience that this had caused them.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but concluded that AXA didnt need 
to take any action. The investigator noted AXA doesnt provide cover for empty buildings and 
that AXA acted reasonably in providing cover for a total of 60 days, albeit restricted for the 
latter 30 days of that period.  The investigator also concluded that AXA werent responsible 
for any higher costs incur by Mr and Mrs W when taking out cover with another insurer.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigators view, believing he had got some facts wrong. 
They requested an ombudsman review the complaint. They also provided additional 
information and evidence directly to me, asking that I consider it when coming to a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I firstly want to recognise that Mr and Mrs W found themselves in difficult circumstances 
when the prospective tenants did not move into the property as scheduled. I appreciate that 
this was just before the national lockdown. I recognise that the lockdown restrictions would 
have made it very difficult for Mr and Mrs W to have secured new tenants for the property in 
such circumstances. Viewings of properties by prospective tenants were only allowed as 
lockdown restrictions were eased from mid-May 2020.
 
Whilst recognising these difficult circumstances, my role here is to decide whether AXA has 
acted fairly towards Mr and Mrs W. Clearly the tenants not moving in to the property and the 
introduction of the national lockdown were outside the control of - and not the responsibility 
of - either Mr and Mrs W or AXA. 
Ive also considered carefully the additional information and representations made by         
Mr and Mrs W. Ive listened to the recordings of discussions that they had with AXA. From 
these recordings, together with the case notes from AXA, I can see that Mr and Mrs W 
phoned AXA on 16 March to tell them that the tenants had not moved in as planned, and 
therefore the property was empty. From the recording its also clear that AXA told               
Mr and Mrs W that should the property have been empty for 30 days (from the date the 
policy commenced) then cover would be restricted, as set out above, for a further 30 days. 
At which point they would contact Mr and Mrs W to review the position. But there is no 
indication of AXA saying that cover would be extended by three months.
The AXA case notes indicate that Mr and Mrs W were told that they would be issued with a 
cancellation notice at the end of the 30 day period (7 April). But this wasnt stated in the 
recording of the conversation Ive listened to. I can also see that the case notes indicate that 
AXA tried to contact Mr and Mrs W on 7 April, but were unable to do so. It was at that point 
that the cancellation notice was issued. 
Ive also noted that after Mr and Mrs W complained to AXA about receiving the cancellation 
notice, AXA considered what had happened and contacted Mr and Mrs W to apologise for 
the cancellation notice having been issued. From the recording of the conversation, I can see that AXA said that they would extend cover (on a restricted basis) for a further 30 days 
(to 7 May) and then review the position again. The AXA case notes indicate that AXA 
advised Mr and Mrs W on 7 May that cover would be extended for a further 30 days, but 
there was a good possibility that cover would not be extended beyond that date. Ive noted 
that had AXA at that point decided to cancel the policy they would have had to give 30 days 
notice and continue to provide restricted cover (until 7 July).
From this sequence of events, AXA provided full cover for the first 30 days of the policy (to 7 
April) and then provided (or offered to provide) restricted cover through to 7 June. Even had 
the policy ben cancelled at that point, restricted cover would have been provided to 7 July.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy. Ive noted an Empty* 
properties condition that states:
1. You must tell us immediately you become aware
a. That the property is empty*
Note * - Empty is defined as Wholly unoccupied, mainly unoccupied or not in use by you or 
any of your tenants for more than 45 consecutive days.
Ive also noted that under the heading Cancellation condition it states:
3. We can cancel your policy at any time during the period of insurance by giving 30 
days written notice to your last known address and/or your last registered email 
address.
Looking at this wording, its clear that AXA did have a right to cancel the policy, and that they 
complied with the requirement to provide 30 days written notice when they wrote to           
Mr and Mrs W on 7 April 2020. Ive therefore concluded that AXA acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also noted that the above conditions apply where properties become empty after the 
inception of the policy. The circumstances of Mr and Mrs W were different because the 
property was empty at the point of inception. AXA told us they dont offer Landlord cover to 
properties that are empty, but that they do allow policies to be taken out where there is a 
clear indication that the property would become occupied in the period between a policy 
being taken out and its inception. Where, for whatever reason, a property becomes empty in 
that period  as was the case with Mr and Mrs W  they do allow a period of 30 days from 
the inception of the policy for the property to become occupied. This is what happened with 
Mr and Mrs W and Ive concluded that AXA have acted in accordance with their approach in 
those circumstances. While the lockdown clearly affected Mr and Mrs Ws ability to secure 
new tenants, in offering extended periods of cover I think AXA acted fairly.
Ive also considered AXAs approach in response to the Covid Pandemic and the 
consequent restrictions brought in by the government. Ive noted that in their case notes 
supplied to this service as part of our investigation there is reference to AXA guidance and 
directives. The reference indicates that this guidance brought in a different approach for 
properties that became vacant after 16 March 2020 (when the national lockdown was 
announced). For properties that became vacant before that date, the indication is that AXA 
would follow its standard approach. But for properties that became vacant after this date 
AXA would allow 60 days of cover before applying their standard terms (to restrict cover) 
with subsequent reviews at 30 day intervals.While Mr and Mrs Ws property became vacant before 16 March, and therefore would have 
been considered under AXAs standard approach, in subsequently extending restricted 
cover from 7 April and from 7 May, AXA were in practice reviewing the position at 30 day 
intervals. And while the indication given to Mr and Mrs W was that there was a good 
possibility that a further extension wouldnt be provided after 7 June, they would still have 
had the further notice period of 30 days cover had the policy been cancelled by AXA at that 
point. I think that was a reasonable approach to take.
 
A further element of complaint by Mr and Mrs W is that they had to take out insurance with 
another insurer, at higher cost, and therefore causing them financial loss. Im not able to 
consider the basis on which any new insurer would have provided cover as that would have 
been a commercial decision based on an assessment of risk, the circumstances of             
Mr and Mrs W, as well as the type of cover taken out (for example, whether it was on the 
basis of the property being empty). However, I understand that Mr and Mrs W benefited from 
a 20% discount from AXA when they took out their policy, which may have accounted for at 
least some of the difference in premium. So I dont think AXA should be held responsible for 
any difference in premium  particularly as Ive concluded that they acted reasonably when 
extending cover under Mr and Mrs Ws policy with them.
From the above considerations Ive concluded that AXA havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how they treated Mr and Mrs W. They responded fairly to not making        
Mr and Mrs W aware of the cancellation of their policy in April 2020, by extending cover 
(albeit restricted) for a further period. In total, some degree of cover was provided, or offered, 
or would have been provided for four months. It was clearly a stressful time for Mr and Mrs 
W faced with an empty property that they were unable to actively market to secure new 
tenants. But the principal reason for this was the impact of the Covid Pandemic and the 
associated restrictions of lockdown brought in by the government. While unfortunate, these 
circumstances were not due to the actions of AXA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman