DRN-1769189
The complaint
Mrs J complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited declined her claim on her 
car insurance policy with it.
What happened
Mrs J had car insurance with AA. In January 2020 she experienced a problem with the 
electrics in the car, which meant her clock stopped working. She identified a problem with 
one of the fuses and bought replacements from an online retailer. After fitting the fuses, the 
electrics appeared to start working again, however shortly after this the car started filling with 
smoke. She discovered that the fuse she had fitted had melted, so she took the car to a local 
garage to look at.
The engineer said the fuse was faulty and had caused a fire which had melted it. Mrs J 
called AA to make a claim.
When she first called she was told that the claim wouldnt be covered. She then asked to 
speak to a manager who told her the claim would be covered and arranged for the car to be 
taken to an approved garage. 
The engineer at the garage inspected the car but said there was no evidence that the 
damage had been caused by a fire. He said the fuse had overheated and melted. Based on 
this AA declined Mrs Js claim as it said the damage was caused by an electrical fault and 
not a fire, so was excluded from cover.
Mrs J didnt think this was fair. She said the first engineer she took the car to had said there 
had been a fire so it should be covered under fire damage. She also said she had received 
poor service as she had been told conflicting information about whether the claim would be 
covered. She made a complaint to AA.
AA didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence there had been a fire, so it 
wouldnt be covered under that section of the policy. However it accepted that it had 
provided poor service and offered her £100 compensation to make up for this.
Mrs J didnt agree and still thought the claim should be covered. She brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that from examining the photos of the damage he didnt think there was enough 
evidence there had been a fire. So he thought AA had acted fairly by declining the claim. He 
also thought the £100 compensation it offered was reasonable to make up for the poor 
service.
Mrs J still didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.What 
Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA has said Mrs Js claim would be excluded from cover because it was due to an electrical 
fault. The policy states under what is not covered:
Mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer fault, failure, malfunction or breakdown.
So I agree that electrical faults wouldnt be covered under the policy. However Mrs J has 
said that the faulty fuse caused a fire, so the claim should be covered under the fire damage 
section of the policy. I can see that Mrs J has cover for fire and theft of your vehicle under 
her policy, so damage caused by a fire would be covered.
So first I need to decide whether the damage to the vehicle was most likely to have been 
caused by a fire. 
I have been provided with two reports on the damage with differing opinions on how it was 
caused. The one from the first engineer says:
the entire fuse had ignited, the wiring attached to that particular fuse had also then ignited 
and caused a series of additional fires within the wiring harness
However AAs engineer subsequently inspected the car and said as follows:
Upon inspection I can confirm the vehicles wiring has sustained multiple areas of damage 
due to a short circuit in the fuse box. The damage noted in the fuse box is due to the 
overheating of the fuse and does not constitute a fire (melted plastic)
Where there are two conflicting views from experts, I need to decide which explanation is 
more persuasive and therefore more likely. 
Alongside these views I have also looked at photos of the damage caused to Mrs Js car. 
The photos are of the fuse and the wires. In both I can see that the plastic casing of the 
wires has melted and so has the plastic of the fuse. However apart from this damage, there 
is very little damage in the surrounding areas. 
Fire damage tends to affect more than just the exact spot where the fire occurred. Usually 
there would be heat damage to the surrounding area and evidence of soot. In the photos of 
the fuses, all other plastic fuses remain intact and undamaged. And I cant see any damage 
to the area immediately around the damaged fuses. The photos of the wires show a bundle 
of plastic covered wires. The damage has been caused to a few of these, where others 
remain undamaged. Had there been a fire in the wiring harness, as concluded by the first 
engineer, I would expect the plastic casing of all the wires to show some amount of damage. 
So having considered the photos, I am more persuaded that the fault with the fuse caused 
overheating but I havent seen enough to persuade me that it caused a fire. For this reason, I 
think AA acted fairly by not considering Mrs Js claim under this section of cover.
I have then gone on to decide whether AA fairly applied the exclusion when declining the 
claim. 
Mrs J originally bought the replacement fuse in order to fix an electrical fault. Both engineers 
have agreed the fuse was faulty and the online retailer has removed it from sale. However 
the fault was initially caused by a problem with the electrics in the vehicle. And then a 
problem with the replacement fuse. So I agree this is due to an electrical fault. For this 
reason, I think AA has acted fairly by applying this exclusion to decline Mrs Js claim.I have also considered the service Mrs J received while making her claim. I can see that she 
was given two conflicting conclusions as to whether her claim would be covered. And was 
told by a team manager that it would be. I can understand it would be distressing to have this 
confirmed and then later be told the claim was excluded. So I agree this is poor service. AA 
has offered £100 compensation to make up for this and I agree this is a fair offer in the 
circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to 
do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman