DRN-4245297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about the settlement offered in response to a claim made 
under its business insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK. 
AXA are the underwriters of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the loss adjusters it used to deal with claim on its behalf. As AXA has accepted it 
is accountable for the actions of the loss adjuster, any reference in my decision to AXA 
includes the actions of the loss adjusters.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H run a guest house insured under a Guest House and Bed and Breakfast 
business insurance policy with AXA. I will refer to the guesthouse as S. They contacted AXA 
in April 2020 to make a claim as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
AXA initially rejected the claim but later agreed to meet the claim under the extension to the 
core business interruption cover under the policy, which provides for losses resulting from a 
human infectious or contagious disease occurring in the premises. However, in the course of 
considering the claim, AXA found that Mr and Mrs H didnt open the hotel to guests all year 
round (it only opened February to November each year) which it says is the basis on which 
the insurance had been offered. AXA asked for confirmation that the premises were 
occupied all year round. In April 2021, Mr and Mrs H said that they lived in another hotel also 
owned by them, in the same street as S, and their son lived at and managed S for them, so it 
is occupied all year round.  As it was satisfied the property was occupied all year round AXA 
agreed to the claim. 
The policy provided cover for a maximum indemnity period of 24 months. AXA agreed a 
schedule of interim payments to cover the period of time that S was required to close as a 
result of the Government restrictions. The last payment for the first years indemnity from 
March 2020 was paid in July 2021.
In late 2021, Mr and Mrs H also said that they had both caught Covid-19 in July 2021 and as 
a result were not able to open S between July 2021 and the end of 2021, so wanted to 
include loss of revenue for that period in their claim. They also said they wanted to wait until 
the end of the 24 month indemnity period (i.e. around March 2022) to submit further 
accounts details. 
AXA said it would not cover closure as a result of Mr and Mrs Hs own illness, other than a 
ten-day isolation period, as there was no requirement for S to close for any longer. However, 
AXA also questioned why the fact Mr and Mrs H being ill would affect S opening if it was 
managed by their son. 
Mr and Mrs H had a long telephone conversation with AXA about this and the claim in 
February 2022, during which Mr and Mrs H said that their son doesnt manage the business 
and it was their sons girlfriend that in fact managed the hotel since 2019 but she had left 
during the pandemic to find another job. 
AXA was not satisfied with the information provided. It said it would pay one further interim 
payment (of £7,000) in full and final settlement of the claim but would need further 
information (including formal interviews with Mr and Mrs H, their son and his girlfriend, 
employment records and evidence that the other hotel, in which Mr and Mrs H lived, was 
shut at the same time) before it would agree any further payment. 
AXA also said that if the further investigation resulted in evidence that the information 
provided in April 2021 wasnt correct, it might seek to recoup the payments it had already 
made. 
Mr and Mrs H did not want to go through a formal interview process. During the call, it was 
discussed that they might accept £9,000 as a final payment to avoid the need for further 
investigation. Following this, AXA paid a further £9,000 (which it says means it paid a total of 
just over £65,000) but has refused to make any further payment.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt agree this amount and are unhappy with AXAs handling of the 
matter. They say there is £22,000 outstanding on their claim. They have also complained 
about the phone call discussion, which they say was completely wrong and caused them 
stress. Mr and Mrs H say they felt blackmailed into accepting a reduced settlement. 
Blackmail is a criminal offence and this caused them both severe anxiety and stress, and led 
to medical issues for Mrs H. 
AXA has maintained its position on the claim, as it says it has not received sufficient 
evidence to establish the claim. AXA said Mr and Mrs H say that as they were not able to 
work, the hotel couldnt operate but this is not consistent with what they previously told AXA 
about the way S was run. So it says it is not obliged to make any further payment until it has 
the further information requested from Mr and Mrs H. 
AXA also said that Mr and Mrs H had asked not to settle the matter until the end of the 
indemnity period (i.e 24 months from March 2020) so it was not responsible for delays, apart 
from since March 2022.
AXA did however, offer Mr and Mrs H £500 compensation for the way the call in February 
2022 was handled, as it said its position could have been communicated better than it was 
and for some delay on its part.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
he was satisfied that AXA was entitled to make the enquiries it proposed and as Mr and   
Mrs H didnt want to provide that and go through the process it proposed, AXAs payment of 
£9,000 and offer of compensation was reasonable. 
Mr and Mr H did not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr and Mrs H have made a 
number of submissions in support of their initial complaint and in response to the 
Investigators assessment. I have considered everything they have said and have 
summarised their main points below:
AXA has lied, deceived, coerced, threatened and blackmailed its way to reduce 
settlement for the claim. Blackmail is a criminal offence.
They were threatened several times during the phone call in February 2022, with a 
pointless investigation and threatened with voidance of their policy and having to 
repay money. 
AXA paid the £9,000 into their account and it had no choice but to accept it. 
The £500 compensation offered is an insult. The policy states they would be indemnified for two years if an outbreak of a human 
infectious or contagious disease occurs within a 25 mile radius. They were ill with 
Covid-19 at their home which is within a 25 mile radius of S, so this should be 
covered.  In its final response, AXA wrongly said the wording required the occurrence 
to be on the premises.
AXA breached the Financial Conduct Authority(FCA) guidelines to handle claims 
fairly and promptly and to provide guidance on making a claim and information on 
claim progress. 
It took 6 months after the court issued its judgment in the FCA test case to pay their 
first years full indemnity.
They contacted AXA about making a claim for the period they were ill but AXA didnt 
give them any guidance and they were only contacted again three or four months 
later. 
AXA knew from their email 8 April 2021 that they did not reside at S but lived in their 
other hotel in the same road. 
The policy doesnt say they have to live at the insured premises anyway. 
Their son has lived at S since 2010. He manages the property and reports any issues 
to them but he does not manage the business. 
The Investigator has sided with AXA and said they lied when the statement of fact 
clearly shows they didnt. This is slander.
AXA has also breached FCA guidelines in deducting government grants from the 
settlement amount.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic has had an impact on Mr and Mrs Hs business. 
However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Policy cover
The business interruption section of Mr and Mrs Hs policy provides cover for a number of 
events. There are also extensions to the core business interruption cover, including the 
following: 
This Section is extended to cover loss as insured hereunder resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business carried on at the Premises in 
consequence of:
1. Human infectious or contagious disease (excluding AIDS) occurring in the 
Premises.
2. An outbreak of a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease (excluding 
AIDS) occurring within 25 miles of the Premises. 
AXA accepted that there had been an outbreak of Covid-19, which is a notifiable human 
infectious disease) within a 25 mile radius of Mr and Mrs Hs premises, which caused them 
business interruption losses in 2020. However, it said there was no cover for losses aside 
from the isolation period of two weeks as a result of Mr and Mr H having Covid-19 in July 2021. AXA said that as Mr and Mrs H didnt live at the insured premises, their claim beyond 
the isolation period was not covered. 
Mr and Mrs H say that the policy provides for an outbreak in a 25 mile radius of the premises 
and as they lived on the same street, this was within 25 miles of S and so the claim for the 
full period claimed should be covered. 
However, AXA had also raised queries about why S could not operate at all, for several 
months, if it was managed for them by their son and they lived elsewhere. AXA accepted the 
claim in principle for the isolation period but did not consider there was enough evidence that 
the fact they tested positive for Covid-19 in mid-July 2021 was the sole reason S was shut 
from July to October 2021.  
Mr and Mrs H said they suffered long term illness and so could not work for this period. Even 
if it were accepted that the business was interrupted by them not being able to work (putting 
aside for the moment the questions about how S operated) Ive seen no medical evidence or 
other independent evidence to support that they were unable to work. In addition, the policy 
requires the business interruption to be the result of an outbreak of Covid-19 in the vicinity or 
occurrence of Covid-19 in the premises. The recommended isolation period for those with 
Covid-19 was set as it was considered that people would no longer be contagious after that 
period. If they are no longer contagious, I think it might be reasonable to consider that the 
outbreak or occurrence had passed and so there would be no cover for the period after this. 
I am therefore not persuaded that there is enough evidence that AXA should meet the claim 
for loss of income from July to October 2021. 
However, I am not making a formal finding on this point, as I do not think it is necessary to 
do so in order to fairly determine this complaint.  I say this because, AXA said it was not 
prepared to make any further payments to Mr and Mrs H in any case until it had been able to 
complete its enquiries, including an interview with them. I will address this below. 
Statement of fact
I have considered the documents from the time the policy was set up. The statement of fact 
said:
This Statement of Facts will form the basis of any contract entered into with the 
Insurer in conjunction with the policy wording and schedule and will be relied upon in 
the event of any claim under the policy
The quotation and any subsequently offered Insurance are strictly subject to 
agreement by the proposer with ALL of the following statements
The business:
 is open for continuous trading at the date of inception or subsequent renewal of the 
policy and throughout the year from the premises insured which will be attended 
every weekday other than half-day closing or public holidays or for a period not 
exceeding 21 consecutive days for the purpose of vacations of yourself
All buildings or any part of the premises in which you and the business are situated in 
or operate from: 
Are normally occupied overnight either by you or your family or the designated 
manager of the business or by an authorised responsible employee.This quotation is valid for 30 days & is SUBJECT TO all items shown on the 
Statement of Facts being agreed, other than where accepted by Underwriters, in 
writing.
The statement of fact also has additional conditions and exclusions relevant to this claim as 
follows:
 
Guest house condition 
The premises are normally occupied by you or your family the designated manager 
of the business or by an authorized responsible employee
If the Policyholder cannot comply with any of the above then the coverage will be 
prejudiced in the event of a loss.
It also says: 
EXCLUSIONS
Businesses that operate on a seasonal basis. 
Mr and Mrs H are adamant they provided correct information when taking out the policy. 
They also say that the reference to the exclusion of businesses that operate seasonally 
means that such businesses are excluded from the statement that the insured business 
premises needs to be open all year round. 
I do not agree with this interpretation. It seems reasonably clear to me that the insurance 
policy was offered on the understanding that the business would be open all year round and 
occupied by someone delegated by Mr and Mrs H; and that the policy excluded cover for 
businesses that operate seasonally. 
AXA said that if it had known at the outset that S operated seasonally, it would not have 
offered the policy on the same terms. However, as it was satisfied that Mr and Mrs Hs son 
lived at and managed the premises, as set out in their letter of April 2021, it agreed to 
proceed with the claim. AXAs action at this time seems reasonable to me. 
When Mr and Mrs H made the additional claim for the period they were unwell, AXA queried 
why S had to close, given they had told it their son managed the business for them. 
Mr and Mrs H say that AXA is simply finding excuses to reduce the settlement they are 
entitled to and it is wrong to request an interview and more information from them. I do not 
agree. 
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs H had said: my son lives at [S], he manages this for us will 
report any problems straightaway to us. 
There was no mention that in fact they had employed a different manager for S or that Mr 
and Mrs H managed the business day-to-day but their son lived there. The email was not 
unreasonably interpreted by AXA as meaning that Mr and Mrs Hs son ran the business for 
them. So when they later said he did not run the business but merely occupied the property 
(albeit he could report any property issues to them) this raised queries which I think were 
justified. During the phone call in February 2022, AXA discussed this with Mr and Mrs H. In response 
they said that their son lives at the property and it was his girlfriend that had been managing 
it but she had since got a different job.  
AXA said it needs to understand what the relationship and role was of the son and girlfriend 
as a decision about the validity of the policy was made in reliance on Mr and Mrs Hs earlier 
statement that their son lived at and managed the hotel. AXA asked that Mr and Mrs H to 
take part in an interview, so they could discuss the arrangements further and suggested it 
would want to see pay records and so on to substantiate what they said. AXA also said it 
would want to know how Mr and Mrs Hs other hotel that they lived in, was affected if they 
were unable to work at S, and the impact on the income from S. AXA also queried why there 
was virtually no trading revenue for S from March 2020 to October 2021, when it was able to 
open. 
 
While the occupant of the business does not need to manage it (it needs to be a family 
member or designated responsible staff member) given the query this raises, I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to ask for more information. The only evidence of the sons occupation 
of the property as far as I am aware, is Mr and Mrs Hs statement and no corroborating 
evidence as far as I am aware has been provided. And AXA is entitled to satisfy itself that 
the business operated all year round. 
I do not think AXAs queries were unreasonable, given that AXAs understanding when the 
policy was taken out was that Mr and Mrs H lived in and ran S and that prior to April 2021 
didnt apparently know they lived and ran a different property, albeit in the same road. 
Mr and Mrs H objected to any further investigation. AXA therefore proposed that it would 
make one further interim payment but would make no more payments until it was satisfied 
that it would have provided the insurance and if so on what terms.  
I do not think this offer was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were effectively being blackmailed and this is a criminal offence. I 
have no criminal jurisdiction and we do not make findings on criminal law. However, it seems 
to me this was an offer and part of a negotiation. Mr and Mrs H may not have liked the way it 
was put to them and felt it was unreasonable but I do not think it was unreasonable or unfair 
to put this to them. 
I have listened to the call and agree that AXAs position could have been communicated 
better but do not think the actual proposal itself was unfair or unreasonable, given the 
queries that have arisen and that AXA is asking for information that would be easily provided 
by Mr and Mrs H. While I can understand why Mr and Mrs H may feel this is unfair, I think it 
is information AXA is entitled to ask for. AXA has offered £500 compensation for the way the 
call was handled and I think this is reasonable. If Mr and Mrs H are unwilling to provide it and 
cooperate with further investigation, then I do not consider I can reasonably require AXA to 
make any further payment to them. 
Deduction of government grants and other issues
Mr and Mrs H have also complained of delay, and deductions from interim payments made 
so far. Mr and Mrs H say it took from April 2020 to July 2021 to get full indemnity for the first 
years loss (the period March 2020 to March 2021).  They have also said that some Government grants were deducted incorrectly. AXAs notes 
appear to show that the Government grants were not deducted from any settlement. 
However, given the queries about the cover in place, I do not consider I can fairly reach a 
finding about delays or whether any deductions have been made that shouldnt have been. I 
say this because the further enquiries AXA wants to make could result in it being entitled to 
adjust the settlement it has already made. I do not therefore think it is fair to make any 
compensatory award for delay in settlements, or deductions from settlements (even if I think 
such an award were warranted, which I have not determined) that might not have been 
correctly payable under the policy in the first place. 
The rules under which this service operates are based on equitable principles. One of the 
fundamental principles of equity is that he who seeks relief from equity must also comply 
with any equitable requirements on their part. So in this case, if Mr and Mrs H want 
compensation for something they think AXA has done wrong, they must recognise the right 
of AXA to satisfy itself that the policy cover is valid.
Having considered everything, and based on the information currently available, I do not 
think I can reasonably ask AXA to make any further payment to Mr and Mrs H.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman