DRN-3229188
The complaint
Mr R1 has a trading account with Gain Capital UK Limited trading as Forex.com. His son, Mr 
R2 is authorised to trade on the account and has brought the complaint on Mr R1s behalf. 
He says that the US_OIL product available for trading through Gain Capital UK Limited 
trading as Forex.com was not clearly labelled as an expiring futures contact. 
What happened
On 20 April 2020, Mr R2 placed a number of trades in Gains US_OIL product using its MT4 
mobile platform. At around 17:42 GMT he instigated an on-line chat, eventually connecting 
with an operator at around 18:34 GMT. He asked if there were any overnight charges 
associated with the product and whether his positions would roll over.
The operator, speaking generally, said there were charges and that positions would remain 
open, but he also stressed that Gain offered both expiring and non-expiring contracts. Mr R 
said hed traded the US_OIL product on Gains MT4 platform and the operator confirmed 
that it would therefore have been the expiring futures contract. He directed Mr R2 to where 
information about expiry could be found, under the Company tab, and Mr R2 confirmed 
back that he could see that the expiry was 4 exchange days before the 25th of every 
month. The operator then confirmed that, in line with this, expiry for the contract in question 
was that day, at 14:30 EST  19:30 GMT (he did initially say 15:00 EST, but then clarified).  
Mr R2 asked some further questions about what would happen if he didnt close his position 
before expiry, and also where he would be able to trade non-expiring contracts. The 
conversation then turned to the current position and the fact that during the chat the price 
had greyed out. The operator explained this was likely due to a lack of liquidity given that it 
was now less than 20 minutes before the contract expiry time. The expiry then passed, and 
the positions were closed out. 
Several days later, on 22 April 2020, Gain emailed Mr R2 to tell him about an adjustment it 
had made to Mr R1s account in response to the price of oil having gone negative on 20 April 
2020. It explained that due to settlement issues related to the negative price, the contracts 
had settled at $0.01, which didnt reflect the actual price of the underlying market. So, to 
ensure proper alignment with it, Gain had reviewed all impacted long and short positions to 
see whether any adjustment was required to correctly reflect the negative pricing. For long 
positions such as Mr R1s, it had calculated the effective liquidation level that wouldve 
applied. This showed that for Mr R1s account a cash adjustment of £2537.18 was required, 
which Gain had deducted. 
Mr R2 then complained to Gain. He said it had provided misleading information about the 
US_OIL product, as its system had failed to make clear that it was an expiring contract. He 
said that in the circumstances all the trades he placed on 20 April 20202 should therefore be 
voided, and the adjustment refunded to Mr R1s account.  
Gain didnt uphold the complaint, as it felt the information regarding expiry had been 
available to Mr R2 through the MT4 platform and it noted that the details of expiry had also 
been explained to him by the chat operator. It highlighted that when Mr R2 had been given 
this information he hadnt opted to close the positions. So, it considered the adjustment to 
have been correctly applied. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Gain. She was satisfied the details concerning the product and the contracts 
expiry had been available. She also noted that the terms of the account provided for Gain to 
make adjustments when trades were impacted by pricing issues. So, she felt its actions to 
determine the position the account would most likely have been in had its systems been able 
to reflect the negative price were fair.
Mr R2 didnt accept the investigators view. He maintained that the information provided by 
Gain had been unclear and incomplete. He provided documentary evidence that he felt 
supported that position, along with comparisons with other providers information. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr R2s comments about the way information concerning the US_OIL product was 
presented. Ive looked at the documentation hes provided, alongside Gains explanation of 
how the information is presented and where details of the expiry could be found. 
Gain was providing an execution-only service. This meant its responsibility was to ensure 
that information about its products was presented in a manner that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading. It was down to Mr R2 to ensure that he was fully informed about what he was 
choosing to trade in.  
Mr R2 has provided some comparisons with other providers platforms and he strongly feels 
that Gain failed to make it sufficiently clear that the product in question was an expiring 
contract. I accept that Gain could have presented the information in a different manner, 
which didnt involve navigating to separate tab to view the expiry details. But there was no 
requirement that it did so, or that it present its information in the same way as other 
providers. Mr R2 was not new to the service, with Mr R1 having opened his account in 
January 2018. He was also aware of how additional information about the service or 
particular products could be obtained through the chat service.
Mr R2 didnt instigate his chat with the operator on 20 April 2020 until after he had deposited 
into the account and made the trades in question. When he did make contact, it was to 
obtain further information about the product hed traded in. Ive not seen that he was 
prevented from asking these questions, or from seeking any other information or clarification 
that he needed, prior to placing the trades. 
In short, Im not persuaded that Gain provided any misleading information about the product 
or prevented Mr R2 from obtaining information about it. Ultimately, it was his decision to 
trade and I dont think I can fairly hold Gain responsible if he invested in a product which 
wasnt as he envisioned.
This being so, as I dont think Gain did anything wrong in respect of the way it presented the 
product, theres no basis on which I can direct Gain to void the trades and refund the 
account. But, that said, the account was unusually impacted by the unprecedented situation with the 
negative oil price. If Mr R2 hadnt traded in the product on that day, the account wouldnt 
have been subject to the adjustment Gain made. But I think it was fair for Gain to treat the 
account as it did any other that held a long position at the point of the price going negative.  
While it was not quite the position Mr R2 intended the account to be in, that was, as Ive 
said, not the fault of Gain. It seems clear Mr R2 intended to trade in oil, albeit not with an 
expiring contract, so even if hed had the type of contract he wanted, Mr R1s account would 
still have been subject to consequences of the price of oil going negative.
The approach that Gain took to adjusting accounts seems broadly fair as it looked to 
replicate the position accounts would otherwise have been in based on the movement in the 
price of oil on the day in question. As the investigator highlighted, its terms provide for it 
taking such steps in response to market disruption events. But I appreciate that if its 
systems had been able to handle negative pricing, account holders wouldve had a clearer 
picture of what was happening and as a result, may, in specific circumstances, have taken 
steps to mitigate their situation  for instance, by actively closing out their positions, or 
increasing their margin. Although given the volatility created by the unprecedented 
circumstances, this seems unlikely. 
While Mr R2 wasnt initially aware of the imminent expiry, the situation was confirmed to him 
by the chat operator and he did then have some opportunity to close the positions himself, 
prior to the expiry. In all the circumstances, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to 
conclude that if Gains systems had been able to handle negative pricing Mr R2 wouldve 
acted differently, in such a way as to prevent the positions being closed out in any event. As 
such, Im satisfied it was fair for Gain to apply the adjustment to Mr R1s account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman