DRN-2815200
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt close an account following his 
request and were rude on the telephone when he queried this. He says he incurred 
expenses in visiting a branch to complete the closure and wants an apology and £150 
compensation.
What happened
Mr W called Santander in December 2020 about an old account. He said he thought the 
account had been closed many years ago, but hed been receiving emails referring to it. He 
said hed telephoned Santander some months before and had been told the account was 
closed. Santander said the account was open but was marked dormant as it hadnt been 
used for many years. Santander said it would need to confirm Mr Ws identity in order to 
remove the dormant marker and then it could close the account. To do this Mr W would need 
to call into a branch with photo i.d. and proof of address. Mr W said he didnt want to do this 
in view of the coronavirus pandemic and possible health risks. 
Santander said as an alternative copy documents could be posted or emailed. Mr W said he 
was concerned about data protection if these options were used. Mr W said hed been 
misled as hed been told the account was closed. Santander registered a complaint and the 
call was transferred to another member of staff who confirmed the details of the complaint, 
explained the account closure process again and said they would investigate what had 
happened.
Santander rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said there was no record of him asking for the 
account to be closed or calling previously to see if it was closed. It said that apart from that 
day, his account details hadnt been accessed by Santander staff in the last seven years, 
which was as far back as records were available. It said it couldnt close the account without 
first reactivating it, which meant it needed to complete identification checks first.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
She said Santander had confirmed it could find no record of Mr W asking for the account to 
be closed or advising Mr W that it had been. She said in line with the terms and conditions 
(T&Cs) the account had been made dormant after twelve months of inactivity around ten 
years ago. 
She said she did not think Santander had been rude to Mr W during the call and had 
provided him with clear information on what was needed to close the account. She said 
Santander had advised that as Mr W hadnt subsequently called into a branch or sent in his 
identification documents the account was still open with a balance of less than £1. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Santander had done anything wrong or treated Mr W 
unfairly and didnt need to pay him compensation. 
As Mr W doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst there has been some confusion about whether Mr W requested that the account be 
closed historically, I dont think Santander have treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably. 
The account was originally with another bank which Santander acquired in 2010 and there 
arent any records from that long ago. Mr W thought the account might have been closed 
between 10 and 15 years ago. For whatever reason it wasnt closed but Mr W says he was 
told it had been when he called to query this having received emails from Santander 
referring to it.
Santander hasnt been able to locate any recordings of earlier calls and has said that most 
call recordings are only retained for six months. But it mentioned to Mr W that calls relating 
to complaints were saved for longer. Ive asked Santander about this and it has confirmed it 
hasnt found any record of any other calls from Mr W.  On the calls that are available Mr W 
was unsure of when he might have called Santander previously, suggesting anywhere 
between two and twelve months before. So, its possible that a previous call was made more 
than six months before and had already been deleted by then. 
I think its likely Santander would want to close long dormant accounts when possible and 
would respond to requests about them by explaining what was required. It may be that Mr W 
had spoken with Santander in general terms about whether the account was closed. But 
Santanders records show that details of the account hadnt been accessed in the previous 
seven years. So, on balance I dont think any specific information about whether the account 
was open or closed could have been given to Mr W before the December 2020 call. And, in 
any case closure would still be dependent on Santanders requirements regarding identity 
verification being met, which they hadnt been. 
So, based on the available evidence I dont think Santander could have confirmed the 
account was closed previously. And I dont think the staff were rude to Mr W during this call. 
The staff explained the situation and Santanders requirements and agreed to investigate 
what had happened.
I dont think Santanders procedures to close the account were unreasonable. They were in 
place to help prevent fraud and gave Mr W different options to verify his identity. 
As there is no evidence that Mr W requested that the account be closed or was told that it 
was closed, I dont think Santander has made an error or that Mr W has been 
inconvenienced. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Santander should pay 
compensation. 
Mr W didnt use the account and during the call said that there was no rush to complete the 
closing requirements and that he would call into the branch when he was in the area. 
Santander have confirmed the account was closed on 2 June 2021. This resolves the issue 
and it doesnt appear that the account remaining open was causing Mr W any difficulties in 
the interim. 
So, as I dont think Santander has treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably it neednt do any 
more than it has.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman