DRN-2755882
The complaint
Mr B says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he 
has paid a lot in interest and fees over the years. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Cashfloat provided to Mr B between June and December 
2019.
loandate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 05/06/2019 £250 1 26/06/2019
2 28/06/2019 £300 3 27/09/2019
3 01/10/2019 £400 3 20/12/2019
4 27/12/2019 £400 4 15/01/2020
In our most recent assessment, the adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought 
that Cashfloat shouldnt have approved loans 2 to 4. He said that Mr B already had a large 
amount of debt when he took the loans and so it was likely he would struggle to repay these 
loans sustainably. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr Bs problems seemed to be 
historic and that fact that he already had a number of other short-term loans isnt a good 
reason not to end to him. Mr Bs income was reasonable and there were no recent 
repayment problems. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr B didnt disagree with our most recent opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with Cashfloat. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans he took.
The information Cashfloat obtained at the time of sale showed that it was likely Mr B had 
some financial problems. And a proportionate check wouldve confirmed this.
Amongst other things, he had a significant amount of other debt, and he was struggling to 
repay all of these at times. He had 27 open accounts with a value of around £25,000. He 
also had what look like to be four other short term loans that would need to be repaid at the 
same time as the Cashfloat loans. This information was available in the credit agency 
information that Cashfloat obtained.
This should have indicated to Cashfloat that Mr B wouldnt have been able repay this
loan in a sustainable way. I dont think it is reasonable to say that some of the debts were 
historic and so werent relevant. Some of the loans that Cashfloat refer to were high cost 
credit that had remained unpaid for over four years and were now in default. So, the fact that 
this was older problematic debt points to systematic and long-term problems, and its not  
historic debt if it hasnt been repaid. And Cashfloat shouldve taken this into consideration 
before approving these loans.
And whilst I accept that Mr B only took a small amount of loans from Cashfloat, and the 
repayment amounts werent unreasonable in relation to his income, it still doesnt mean they 
were affordable to him. And Cashfloat had information that shows this was unlikely to be the 
case.
So, I think that Cashfloat shouldnt have given loans 2 to 4 to Mr B and I think hes lost out 
as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about these loans.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr B loans 2 to 4.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Andy BurlinsonOmbudsman