DRN-3507020
The complaint
Miss T has complained Lloyds Bank plc didnt treat her appropriately when blocking her 
account and not managing her concerns over this.
What happened
Miss T was trying to make a payment for £4,000 to a cryptocurrency company and Lloyds 
blocked the payment. During the call Miss T made to Lloyds she was concerned at the 
questions she was being asked. She felt these were invasive and when she was put on hold 
for a period, she was upset how she was treated. 
Miss T complained about what had happened and was concerned her complaint wasnt 
properly logged.
Miss T had to go into a branch and the payment was made.
Lloyds apologised for not logging her complaint and paid Miss T a total of £55 for what had 
happened.
Miss T brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She believes Lloyds discriminated 
against her. Our investigator reviewed the evidence including the call Miss T was 
complaining about. She didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to do anything further.
Miss T disagreed. Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
There are two different aspects here  the initial block Lloyds placed on Miss Ts account 
and how she was then treated. Ive considered both aspects in coming to my decision.
Blocking a payment from Miss Ts account
Firstly, Lloyds account terms allow them to take a decision to block a payment or an account 
if they have grounds to suspect fraud. Payments made to cryptocurrency accounts fall into 
the high-risk category and banks deal with an increase in claims of fraud about these 
payments. 
I can see from Miss Ts statements that she was regularly accepting payments from 
individuals, potentially friends, and then making crypto purchases with that money. Most of 
these, until the payment that was blocked, were under £1,000. Lloyds noticed two payments 
coming into Miss Ts account for roughly £2,485 and £1,655. It was this money Miss T was 
using to then make a payment to the cryptocurrency company for £4,000.
These amounts greatly exceeded the payments Miss T was previously making so I can 
understand why Lloyds was alerted to these transactions and made the decision to block 
payments. They were then trying to find out from Miss T what was going on which is when 
she objected to the tenor of Lloyds questions. Lloyds are able to set their own security 
parameters and make decisions to block payments. They have to balance those customers 
who believe theyre being inconvenienced with those who theyve stopped being a victim of 
fraud.
I dont believe Lloyds did anything wrong here. I also note Miss T was able to make the 
payment she wanted after going into her branch a week later and carrying out additional ID 
checks.
Nature of phone conversation
Im aware how strongly Miss T feels about what happened on the phone call. She was left 
hanging on whilst she was put on hold. This must have seemed like an extended time period 
and the customer service agent wasnt clear how long this would go on.
She also believes the nature of the questions were invasive.
I dont agree. Lloyds are entitled to ask questions to find out what is going on. Theres a 
certain inevitability about people who are making genuine authorised transactions being 
upset about having their actions questioned so I appreciate why Miss T felt as she did. 
However  although there were some delays on the call  I dont think Lloyds acted 
inappropriately.
What is clear from the call is that Miss T didnt show her best self. The call didnt go well, 
with her being more than impolite to the Lloyds member of staff. I dont think this was 
acceptable.
Lloyds has apologised for not logging Miss Ts original complaint. They paid her £20 for this 
error. They also paid Miss T £35 for the phone call and the delays. Overall, I think this 
amount is fair and reasonable. I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is not to uphold Miss Ts complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman