DRN-2890918
The complaint
Mr C complains as a director of I Ltd, a limited company, about fee changes applied by 
Lloyds Bank PLC to its business account. Mr C also complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt 
responded to his enquiries about the fee changes. 
What happened
Mr C says I Ltd received a text message from Lloyds Bank to say they would be increasing 
its business banking fees from £6.50 to £7 per month. Mr C contacted Lloyds Bank to make 
enquiries into what the increase covered. Mr C says Lloyds Bank would only allow him to 
make these enquiries through a complaint. Mr C says he reluctantly agreed, and then 
discussed his concerns with the call handler who then set up a complaint and transferred 
him to a complaint handler. Mr C then had to discuss his concerns again and raised specific 
queries which he wanted Lloyds Bank to respond to. Mr C says the complaint handler 
agreed to respond to the queries. 
Lloyds Bank responded and addressed I Ltds concern about the increase in service 
charges. Lloyds Bank said this was the first time they had increased their pricing on their 
business current accounts since 2015 and they believe their product and service remains 
competitive and is good value for money. Lloyds Bank said information regarding service 
charges were sent to I Ltd earlier in the year. Lloyds Bank said they were unable to negotiate 
on the business current account charging structure and Mr C had the choice to do his own 
market research and make a decision on that basis. Lloyds Bank didnt uphold the complaint 
but Mr C felt they hadnt addressed his queries so he raised a further complaint. 
Lloyds Bank responded and, in relation to the increase in service charges, they said this was 
a commercial decision and the change was made in line with the terms and conditions. They 
said, its a customer choice to bank with them so they can shop around and make an 
informed choice if theyre unhappy with the changes. Lloyds Bank said their records show 
that correspondence about the price increase was issued in March 2020 so theyre sorry if 
this wasnt received by I Ltd.  
Lloyds Bank said they were unable to provide details of market research they carried out and 
apologised that Mr C was told they could. They said they issue monthly invoices which 
shows a breakdown of the charges incurred. They said, as the £6.50 is a standard fee 
incurred for the business account, there is no breakdown available. Lloyds Bank apologised 
for not responding to all of Mr Cs concerns in the previous complaint response and for him 
having to repeat himself after spending a significant amount of time on the phone. 
Lloyds Bank acknowledged Mr Cs frustration around getting in touch with them and 
apologised for the service received and arranged for £109 to be paid into I Ltds account. 
This was broken down as £100.00 for the inconvenience caused and £9.00 for call costs.  
Our investigator looked into things for I Ltd. He thought Lloyds Banks offer to resolve the 
complaint was reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. I Ltd 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
 
Increase in charges 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of I Ltds business account. Section J covers 
changes to the agreement and says Lloyds Bank may change any of our charges at any 
time  we will tell you at least two months before the change to the charge takes effect. 
Lloyds Bank have provided an example letter which they say was sent to I Ltd in March 2020 
which explains they will be making changes to I Ltds business account terms and 
conditions. The letter says, from May, Lloyds Bank will be increasing the monthly account 
fee from £6.50 to £7. The letter says if I Ltd accept the change, it doesnt need to take any 
action or it can choose to close its account without any charge before the changes take 
effect. Lloyds Bank then send I Ltd a text message in September to say they had let I Ltd 
know in March that the fees and charges for its business account would be changing. They 
said they had taken the decision to delay applying these charges but they would now take 
effect in October.  
Taking the above into account, I cant say Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly in increasing their 
business account charge. The terms and conditions allow them to take such steps and the 
information theyve provided shows they gave advance notice of the increase. I note Mr C 
says the text message was the first notification I Ltd received but Ive seen the letter which 
Lloyds Bank say was sent out to business customers between 2-6 March. I note Lloyds Bank 
havent provided a copy of the letter which was addressed to I Ltd but they say these letters 
arent available to view as a significant number are sent as part of an automated scheme. 
They say letters are only recorded in customers letter history when correspondence is 
specific to their account. So, given the information Ive seen, which includes a copy letter 
and Lloyds Banks explanation, I believe its more likely than not the letter was sent to I Ltd. 
Its unfortunate if this letter wasnt received, but I cant hold Lloyds Bank responsible for this. 
I do understand it will be frustrating for any customer if a business increases their charges 
for services. This is however a commercial decision taken by Lloyds Bank and we dont have 
the power to tell a business what their pricing structure should be for services.  
Customer service 
Ive looked at the service given to I Ltd. The key facts about this part of the complaint arent 
in dispute. Lloyds Bank have admitted they got things wrong when they didnt respond to   
Mr Cs specific points in their first complaint response and gave him assurances they would 
provide information he requested but later changed their position on this. 
I think its important to note that the complainant here is I Ltd. A limited company is a legal 
entity which is separate to the people who run it. So, we cant compensate the directors 
personally, or pay the limited company for any distress theyve incurred personally. A legal 
entity cant experience distress, or pain and suffering. We can make an award for 
inconvenience experienced by the limited company itself, rather than the people bringing the 
complaint. 
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr C and Lloyds Bank where he queries why the 
charges are being increased. Its clear Mr C wants further information and for Lloyds Bank to justify why they are charging at the higher end when compared to other service providers.  
Mr C says hes not happy and the call handler explains he can raise a complaint if Mr C is 
dissatisfied but they cant negotiate on the charges. The call handler says Lloyds Banks 
charges remain competitive and when Mr C asks the call handler to prove this the call 
handler says this will be addressed in the complaint response. Mr C is then transferred to a 
complaint handler. During this call Mr C raises specific points he wants Lloyds Bank to 
respond to and hes given assurances these will be addressed.   
I understand why Mr C was then frustrated when he received the first complaint response 
from Lloyds Bank. I think Mr C was very precise about what information he wanted to better 
understand how the charges are competitive, the services the additional fee would provide to 
I Ltd based on its usage and the benefits to I Ltd.    
I think its important to highlight that were an informal dispute resolution service which exists 
to look at disputes between financial services providers and their customers. My role is to 
decide whether Lloyds Bank have acted fairly and reasonably when providing services to I 
Ltd. I understand Mr C wants Lloyds Bank to respond to the specific queries he has raised. 
Lloyds Bank have explained the price increase was a commercial decision and something 
which they can do in line with the terms and conditions. I know Mr C wants Lloyds Bank to 
specifically address why they increased their charges but its not unreasonable for Lloyds 
Bank to provide no further reasons beyond saying its a commercial decision. Lloyds Bank 
also say they issue monthly invoices which shows the breakdown of the charges incurred. 
They say the £6.50 is the standard fee for I Ltds account so there is no breakdown 
available. And, they say theyre unable to provide any market research and apologise that 
Mr C was told they could. Lloyds Bank also say its not their responsibility to provide market 
comparisons against other banks and its up to Mr C to complete his own research. Lloyds 
Bank also say they wont action Mr Cs request to freeze the account charge.   
I can see Mr C feels Lloyds Bank should honour their commitment to provide the information 
he requested or our service should direct them to provide it. Lloyds Bank have explained 
theyre unable to provide information about market research or comparisons. I cant direct 
Lloyds Bank to provide this information if theyre unable to or if its not part of their process. I 
acknowledge Mr C was told they could provide it but Lloyds Bank have accepted this was an 
error. So, the remedy here would be in the form of compensation to I Ltd for the 
inconvenience caused. And, Lloyds Bank have factored this into their compensation award. 
I note Mr C is concerned a recording of his original phone call with Lloyds Bank couldnt be 
located. Lloyds Bank have provided our service with a copy of the recording and theyre 
unsure why it couldnt originally be located. I can see Mr C feels Lloyds Banks claim to have 
lost this call were false, misleading and intended to frustrate their customer. I havent seen 
any evidence of this and the call was provided when requested by our investigator. Its not 
clear why it couldnt originally be traced but I cant say they withheld this information 
deliberately in order to inconvenience I Ltd. 
In addition to this, Ive listened to this call and I cant say the contents wouldve changed 
Lloyds Banks position in not upholding I Ltds complaint about the pricing change. And, 
while I agree it does set out the specific queries  Mr C wanted addressed, Lloyds Bank 
accepted in their second complaint response that the call handler had provided 
misinformation about what they could provide Mr C to address his queries. That said, I 
acknowledge the customer service impact of the call being lost initially and the 
inconvenience to I Ltd in Mr C having to then repeat the complaint points again.    
I understand Mr C remains concerned he had to raise a complaint in order to raise queries 
with Lloyds Bank but, Ive listened to the phone call between Mr C and the call handler and Mr C does say hes unhappy and the call handler then discusses the option of Mr C raising a 
complaint. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds Bank to treat Mr Cs concerns as 
a complaint. I note Mr C says Lloyds Bank shouldnt require a customer to go down a 
complaints route to resolve issues. I acknowledge this, but our service doesnt have power to 
require a business to change their processes. Or to direct a business on the assessment 
they should carry out to determine what qualifies as a complaint. Also, I can see Mr C wants 
Lloyds Bank to provide a digital solution for complaints and correspondence that doesnt 
require telephone or letters. Again, as mentioned, we dont have the power to require a 
business to change their processes.  
Mr C says he was promised a call from Lloyds Banks business banking team to agree a 
resolution to the charging issue but this didnt happen  instead this was arranged with a 
team based overseas who Mr C says didnt have the authority to work specifically with a 
business customer to resolve an issue. Mr C says the overseas team called but didnt 
arrange a suitable time to call so voicemail messages were left which were difficult to 
understand. I note Mr C understood a business banking relationship manager from Lloyds 
Banks front office would be calling but, as mentioned above, our service doesnt have the 
power to direct a business to change their processes. Lloyds Bank say Mr C can contact 
their business banking team to ask questions or to raise any queries without having to make 
a complaint. So, this facility does appear to be in place for I Ltd to make enquiries. And, if 
this involves discussing the issues with a team based overseas, we cant direct Lloyds Bank 
to change this process.       
I think its right that Lloyds Bank should compensate I Ltd. I agree the events here have 
caused some inconvenience to I Ltd, not least the time Mr C had to spend raising a further 
complaint on I Ltds behalf after Lloyds Bank didnt address his queries. In addition to this, 
there was further inconvenience to I Ltd in that Mr C couldnt then assess, on I Ltds behalf, 
what the impact of the price increase was on I Ltd in terms of benefits and price comparison. 
While Lloyds Bank say they cant provide all of the information Mr C has requested, the fact 
is that he was led to believe they could when raising his queries on I Ltds behalf. And, I 
acknowledge Mr C had to call again when Lloyds Bank didnt originally address his queries. 
Lloyds Bank have acknowledged this and awarded £100 for the inconvenience and £9.00 for 
call costs. Taking this all into account, I think the £109 paid by Lloyds Bank is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.   
 
I acknowledge customers will want as much information as possible to help make an 
informed decision on whether a particular product or service is suitable for them, and 
whether the charges are competitive. So, I fully appreciate why Mr C raised the queries he 
did. I acknowledge Mr Cs point that I Ltd dont utilise the full range of services offered by 
Lloyds Bank so he questions how the fee increase is good value for money. I understand the 
queries Mr C raised are important for him and why a detailed response to them will help him 
make decisions in the best interests of I Ltd. But, Lloyds Bank have explained they dont 
provide that information and its for customers to carry out their own research to determine 
what product or service provider is best for them. And, I dont think this explanation is unfair 
or unreasonable.  
In summary, while I understand the impact this had on I Ltd, Lloyds Bank have accepted 
they got things wrong and have already paid compensation of £109. So, I wont be asking 
them to take any further steps.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman