DRN-4103215
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Society of Lloyds hasnt paid benefits from two income protection 
policies.
What happened
Mr P was employed as a pilot by a company Ill refer to as C. C is the policyholder for two 
group income protection policies, of which Mr P is the beneficiary.
The first policy covers mandatory group loss of licence (MLOL). The policy includes a benefit 
for temporary and long-term inability to fly  this is a percentage of pre-disability earnings for 
temporary inability to fly and a lump sum for long term inability to fly.
The second covers individual voluntary loss of licence (VLOL) and includes a further benefit 
for long term inability to fly benefit. This is a lump sum is determined by the level of cover the 
beneficiary has selected.
Mr P was diagnosed with a medical condition in 2020 and was unable to work. He received 
some sick pay from his employer, but his contract of employment was terminated in August 
2021. Mr P says he hasnt received all the money that hes due to be paid under the income 
protection policies. His claim was accepted, and he received payments under the MLOL 
policy for temporary benefit in June, July and August 2021. Society of Lloyds records show 
that four payments of benefit had been made to the policyholder, C.
Mr P complained to Society of Lloyds. Society of Lloyds reviewed Mr Ps complaint. In their 
final response letter, they said the underwriters have confirmed that cover can only be 
purchased and continue to be offered if the individual remained employed by the 
policyholder. They said that Mr P was no longer employed by C and Society of Lloyds had 
correctly reviewed the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Unhappy, Mr P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator looked 
into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She explained that the policy terms did 
make it clear only employed crew members could claim. But she highlighted that there was a 
caveat to the relevant exclusion which said it wasnt relevant when the reason for the 
cessation of employment was disability. She thought the evidence suggested Mr Ps 
employment was terminated because of his illness and/or disability. The investigator 
recommended Society of Lloyds reconsider the claims Mr P had made and make suitable 
arrangements to pay Mr P, as the beneficiary.
SOL didnt agree and reiterated the policy terms which, they say, means Mr P doesnt have 
any rights to enforce benefits under the policy as it was held by C. They maintained that Mr 
P was not employed by C from August 2021 and therefore was no longer covered under the 
policy. They said the contract of insurance required the policyholder to prove that they 
continue to have a valid claim, which was standard practice. Furthermore, they said Mr Ps 
employment was terminated as a result of his sickness record, not his disability.
Mr P also made further comments in response to the view. He said hed incurred legal costs 
and had lost out financially because hed not received the benefit payments when he should. 
He also highlighted that he had faced a lot of worry and uncertainty at a difficult time. So, he 
wanted compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr P also got in touch to 
say that C had paid him a further four months worth of benefit in December 2022.
The investigator issued a second opinion. She said it would now be fair for Society of Lloyds 
to pay the benefit from the point it was stopped until the point it was reinstated (and pay 8% 
simple interest on top). She also recommended Society of Lloyds pay Mr P £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced and said they needed to 
make a suitable arrangement with Mr P to receive the benefit payments directly.
Mr P didnt think the compensation of £250 recognised the significant life-changing effects 
hed suffered. Society of Lloyds said the policy terms were clear and unambiguous and they 
were acting within the terms of the policy when the claim was terminated. They also said that 
payments couldnt be made to Mr P directly unless C asked them to. Society of Lloyds also 
said that, whilst there had been further developments with the claim since the complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, this didnt affect whether the underwriters 
acted correctly in terminating the claim when they did.
The investigator reviewed Mr Ps comments and increased the compensation she was 
recommending to £350. Mr P asked that the ombudsman reviewed this level of 
compensation. Society of Lloyds maintained their position that they had acted correctly.
They said only C had the right to make a claim and it was their responsibility to make 
payment to Mr P. The case was passed to me to make a decision. I asked Society of Lloyds 
to provide more information to clarify a few points. They confirmed theyd had a request from 
the policyholder to pause the claim and later reopened it at their request. Society of Lloyds 
says it is for the policyholder to decide if they want to claim and that the temporary benefits 
have been paid up to date. They also clarified that Mr P hadnt yet made a claim for 
permanent loss of licence as yet. That means a claim for the lump sum benefits under the 
VLOL and MLOL policies hadnt yet been made by Mr P or assessed by Society of Lloyds.
In March 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Society of Lloyds has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably.
Ive also taken into account the relevant Principles set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook which include:
Principle 1  a firm must conduct its business with integrity
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between 
itself and its customers and between a customer and another client.
The policy documentation
The MLOL policy documents say:Introduction
The Insurer will pay the Benefits defined in this Policy if an Insured Crew 
Member becomes Disabled in the circumstances set out in this Policy. The 
payment of Benefits is always subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Insurance. The Insured must pay the premium as and when it falls due.
Any payments under this Insurance will be made to the Insured on behalf of 
the Insured Crew Member unless the Insured, at the Insureds sole discretion, 
instructs the Insurer in writing to pay the Insured Crew member directly prior 
to any individual
Benefit being paid under this insurance
Rights under the Insurance
This is a group insurance, an agreement between the Insured and the 
Insurer, intended for the benefit of Insured Crew Members.
Insured Crew Members must comply with certain conditions stated in this 
Insurance but neither the Insured Crew Members nor any party other than the 
Insured has any right to enforce any of the Benefits under this insurance.
Disabled/Disablement/Disability is defined as:
Failing to reach and maintain the required medical standards for all Medical 
Certificates held by an Insured Crew Member with the result that the Insured 
Crew Member is unable to undertake flying duties.
Under the heading Benefits the policy says:
Temporary Inability to Fly Benefit
If an Insured Crew Member becomes Disabled during the Period of Insurance 
as a consequence of Bodily Injury or Illness and the Disablement continues 
for longer than the Waiting Period then the Insurer will pay the Temporary 
Inability to Fly Benefit shown in the Schedule of Benefits for each subsequent 
full month (and the relevant proportion of any partial month) for which the 
Insured Crew Member remains Disabled during the Benefit Period provided 
that:
If the Benefit payable is dependent on the Insured Crew Members age 
the age at the date of the start of Disability shall prevail;
The Insurer will not pay more than 80% of the Pre-Disability Earnings of 
the Insured Crew Member in respect of Temporary Inability to Fly Benefit 
less any amount receivable as sickness benefit under any state or private 
scheme or insurance from any source.
Temporary Inability to Fly Benefit automatically and immediately ceases on 
the first to occur of the following:
The Insured Crew Member ceasing to be employed in their 
Occupation with the Insured other than as a consequence of a 
Disability covered by this insurance;The Insured Crew Member attaining the Maximum Age Limit;
A payment becoming due for Long Term Inability to Fly benefit or
The death of the Insured Crew Member.
Was it fair for Society of Lloyds to stop paying the temporary benefit available under 
the MLOL?
Based on the evidence available to me I think its reasonable to conclude Mr P met 
the definition of disablement. His licence was revoked by the Civil Aviation Authority 
due to his medical condition  it says his medical certificate is deemed to be 
suspended. He was unable to complete his flying duties as a result.
Society of Lloyds accepted the claim but stopped paying Mr P on the instruction of 
the policyholder, C. Mr P has provided evidence of an email dated 14 September 
2021 which suggests thats most likely to be the case. Society of Lloyds position is, 
in summary, that the policyholder is the only party with the right to enforce any of the 
benefits available under the policy.
But, even if thats the contractual position, Society of Lloyds still has an overarching 
responsibility to treat Mr P, as a beneficiary of the contract of insurance, fairly. The 
claim was accepted and paid to Mr P for four months. The policy documentation 
suggests Society of Lloyds has the discretion to accept claims and investigate them. 
In my experience it is not common industry practice for employers, as group 
policyholders, to direct an insurer about whether a claim should be accepted or 
terminated. Thats something that the insurer is responsible for, taking into account 
the relevant policy terms.
Society of Lloyds hasnt provided me with any information, or referred to any 
compelling information in the policy terms, which clearly sets out that the policyholder 
has the sole discretion to pursue or determine the outcome of a claim, for example 
directing it to be paid or not. The term theyve referred to says:
Insured Crew Members must comply with certain conditions stated in this 
Insurance but neither the Insured Crew Members nor any party other than the 
Insured has any right to enforce any of the Benefits under this insurance. 
The term says the policyholder can enforce the benefits under the policy, but it 
makes no reference to the policyholder having any discretion about the payment of 
claims to the beneficiary. I dont think its clear that this term means the policyholder 
has the right to determine whether a claim should be paid or not. I dont agree this 
term is clear and unambiguous as Society of Lloyds has suggested. I think its for 
Society of Lloyds to determine, not the policyholder, whether theres a valid claim that 
should be paid.
Ive also taken into account whether it was reasonable to decline further payments to 
Mr P after he left employment in August 2021. Based on the current evidence 
available to me, I dont think it was. The policy terms say:
Cover under this Insurance ceases automatically in respect of an insured 
crew member once The Insured Crew Member ceases to be employed in 
his Occupation with the Insured other than as a consequence of a Disability 
covered by this insuranceMr Ps letter of termination confirms his diagnosis and sets out the amount of sick 
leave Mr P had taken. It goes on to confirm that he was unfit to fly in August 2021 
and was expected to be medically grounded for a period of around four to six months 
(subject to review). A similar assessment had been made in March 2021. C said that 
based on the information available he was unable to perform the inherent 
requirements of the job as a pilot and it would cause unjustifiable hardship to C to 
continue to accommodate Mr P.
I think there is a sufficiently clear link between Mr Ps disablement, as defined by the 
policy, and his employment ending. So, I think it would be reasonable to conclude 
from this information that his termination was as a consequence of a disability 
covered by the insurance policy. Thats because the medical condition caused the 
absence from work and ultimately led to the termination of employment.
Taking all of the above into account I dont think it was fair and reasonable for 
Society of Lloyds to stop making benefit payments to C simply because they asked 
for those payments to be paused. I dont think that was treating Mr P, as the 
beneficiary of the policy, fairly.
Society of Lloyds has confirmed more recently that they reopened and reinvestigated 
Mr Ps claim. They say that all benefits have been paid up to date and the final 
temporary benefit payment will be in early April 2023. Thats consistent with the 
information Mr P has provided as he also recently confirmed that hed received the 
outstanding payments from September 2021 until November 2022.
Based on the evidence I currently have I dont think theres any outstanding benefit to 
be paid to Mr P as the payments have been reinstated and backdated. If either party 
has any further representations to make on this point, they should let me know when 
they respond to my provisional decision. 
Should Society of Lloyds consider claims for lump sums under the VLOL and MLOL 
policies?
Ive already explained the relevant policy term says Mr P wasnt covered if his 
employment with C ended. But the same exception Ive outlined above applies. And, 
on the basis of the current evidence thats available, I think Mr Ps employment did 
end as a consequence of a disability covered by the insurance policies.
Upon receipt of the claims documentation I think Society Of Lloyds should 
reconsider whether Mr P has a valid claim for a lump sum under both MLOL and 
VLOL in line with the remaining policy terms and provide him with a written response 
to both claims.
I make no finding about the merits of either claim as its not been fully assessed yet. 
If Mr P is unhappy with the outcome of the MLOL or VLOL lump sum claim (or how 
much any settlement is) he may be entitled to make a further complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. The Financial Ombudsman Service could only 
consider any such complaint if Mr P has complained to Society of Lloyds first.
Should Society Of Lloyds pay further compensation for distress and inconvenience?
Ive taken into account Mr Ps representations and Im intending to increase the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to £1500.
Mr P has explained that the decision to stop paying the claim has had a significant impact on his day to day life for over a year. He says he was passed between the 
various parties and the matter was only resolved when he took various legal actions 
to address the decision to stop paying the claim. He spent a lot of time and effort 
arranging legal representation and this was detrimental to his overall day to day life. 
Mr P described how the overall impact caused him significant hardship, anxiety and 
stress on a daily basis for over a year.
Some of this distress and inconvenience was due to the issues Mr P was having with 
his former employer. But I also think Society of Lloyds was responsible for causing 
Mr P distress and inconvenience as a result of their decision to act on Cs instruction 
to stop paying the claim.
Mr P has also highlighted that he was not receiving income from May 2021 and was 
financially dependent on receiving the payments. Consequently, when the claim 
payments were stopped, hes explained it impacted on his overall lifestyle but also on 
his ability to pay for day to day necessities such as food and petrol. This had a 
substantial impact as he was the sole earner in the family. He said this caused him a 
significant amount of stress and anxiety, at a time when he was also experiencing 
poor health due to his medical condition.
I dont think it was reasonable for Society of Lloyds to stop paying Mr Ps claim. And, 
I think this decision caused him substantial distress and inconvenience for over a 
year. I think not having this income caused a lot of disruption to Mr Ps daily life over 
a sustained period of time and had a substantial impact on him throughout this time.
I appreciate that Mr P feels a much higher figure is justified but I think £1500 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. Its also not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to penalise Society of Lloyds with punitive measures, such as 
fines or other financial penalties.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct that Society of Lloyds needs to put things right by paying Mr P 
£1500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by stopping the 
claim payments.
Ive outlined above why I think £1500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case.
Ive thought about whether Society of Lloyds should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the benefit payments. I think it should pay 8% simple interest per annum 
for the payments which were not made between September 2021 and December 
2022.
Mr P missed out on the money he should have received when Society of Lloyds 
stopped paying his claim on Cs instruction. I dont think that decision was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive taken into account that Society of Lloyds 
considers it shouldnt have been paid as they say they acted on the policyholders 
instructions. Ive explained above that I dont think this was fair and reasonable and 
so I think they do need to pay interest on the missed payments.
The interest on the missed payments should be paid to Mr P directly as there is no 
contractual requirement for this to be paid to the policyholder. Thats because the 
payment for interest is not a benefit thats payable under the policy so it doesnt need 
to be paid to the policyholder.Mr P has provided what he considers to be the right calculation of interest. Society of 
Lloyds should provide a breakdown of the interest calculation in response to my 
provisional decision.
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr P said he accepted my provisional decision. He highlighted that he was paying for 
additional cover for the VLOL policy and was unsure if his coverage had reduced since his 
employment was terminated. He said he would welcome clarification on this point. Although 
he said hed hoped for a higher level of compensation he accepted my reasons for the 
amount Id awarded and the interest. In further correspondence Mr P asked me to consider 
directing Society of Lloyds to make future payments to him directly. 
Society of Lloyds made a number of further representations. In summary, they said: 
The policy pays C the amount they pay their aircrew when they are unable to 
carry out their duties so all payments are at Cs discretion, unless the insurer 
is instructed otherwise. 
The insurers conduct should be assessed against the nature of a group 
policy. 
There was an express contractual term which reinforced that Society of 
Lloyds obligations were owed to the policyholder, not Mr P. 
It wasnt entirely accurate to say that the insurer stopped payment at Cs 
request. The broker stopped presenting requests for settlement at the request 
of C. They can only respond to claims that are submitted.  
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im still upholding Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ill explain. 
Ive considered Society of Lloyds representations, including the caselaw that theyve 
referred to. But they havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint.
Mr P is the beneficiary of, but not a party to, to the contract of insurance between C and 
Society of Lloyds. But he is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through Society of Lloyds.
The reasonableness of Society of Lloyds actions isnt solely dictated by whether or not Mr P 
would be able to enforce the contract. I remain of the view, for all the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, that Society of Lloyds hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. 
Those reasons were not predicated on Mr Ps ability to bring a legal claim under the contract  they were based on what was set out in the insurance policy and whether Society of 
Lloyds acted fairly in all the circumstances. 
Furthermore, Ive considered what Society of Lloyds has said about the broker stopping 
presenting requests for the claim. There was a valid claim and benefit had been paid. And, in 
any event, Society of Lloyds has now been aware for a very long time of the circumstances 
which led to the payments P being stopped. They havent disputed the validity of Mr Ps 
claim. So, bearing in mind the rules and overarching principles I outlined in my provisional 
decision Im still not persuaded Society of Lloyds has acted fairly.
Im aware that Mr P has concerns about the level of cover he had and whether its reduced. 
However, thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint. I can only consider 
the points he raised in his original complaint. 
I also cant fairly direct for other future benefits under the policy be made to Mr P directly as 
Society of Lloyds hasnt considered those claims yet or reached a decision about them yet.
Society of Lloyds didnt provide a breakdown of interest in response to my provisional 
decision. But theyll need to calculate that interest and make the payment direct to Mr P with 
together with a breakdown of how its been calculated.  
Putting things right
Im directing Society of Lloyds to put things right by paying Mr P £1500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by stopping the claim payments.
Ive thought about whether Society of Lloyds should pay 8% simple interest per annum on 
the benefit payments. I think it should pay 8% simple interest per annum for the payments 
which were not made between September 2021 and December 2022. The interest on the 
missed payments should be paid to Mr P directly as there is no contractual requirement for 
this to be paid to the policyholder. Thats because the payment for interest is not a benefit 
thats payable under the policy so it doesnt need to be paid to the policyholder. As Ive 
outlined above Society of Lloyds should provide a breakdown of their calculation to Mr P. 
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Society of Lloyds and direct them to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman