DRN-4265805
The complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) delayed paying him redress for a 
mis-selling complaint.
HSBC did eventually pay Mr O the redress, but Mr O is unhappy that it only calculated the 
8% simple interest part of the award up to the date it had made the offer, rather than to the 
date of payment to Mr O. 
Mr O wants HSBC to recalculate the 8% simple interest award and pay him the difference.
Mr O also says that because of the delays in the payment being made to him, his 
representative appointed a debt collector to recover its share of the redress from him. Mr O 
says that the representative has since registered a County Court Judgment (CCJ) against 
him.
What happened
On 2 September 2022, HSBC issued its final response letter to Mr Os representative and 
upheld his complaint about the mis-sale of his packaged account. The letter explained that 
Mr Os redress was £140.29 and included a payment instruction form, so that Mr Os 
representative could provide Mr Os bank details for where he wanted the redress to be paid.
HSBC says that it received a response to its final response letter on 18 October 2022. This 
was a copy of a letter that the representative had sent to Mr O. However, no bank details 
were included with the letter. Instead, at the top of this letter, it appears that Mr O annotated 
the letter and said: Hi Team I dont have a UK account I moved to Australia.
Mr O says he sent a number of letters to HSBC. But HSBC does not have any evidence that 
it received such letters until February 2023, when Mr O provided his bank details for the 
redress to be paid into. HSBC attempted to make the payment to Mr O, but the payment was 
returned unpaid as the bank details provided were incorrect. 
Mr O insisted that the bank details were correct, so HSBC attempted to make the payment 
again, but again it says it was returned unpaid. HSBC says that it contacted the Australian 
Bank directly and it confirmed that the BIC code that Mr O had been provided with was 
incorrect.
As HSBC was unable to make the payment, Mr O provided different bank details for an 
account he holds with a different Australian Bank in April 2023. The redress was 
subsequently paid. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they ultimately didnt think that HSBC 
needed to do anything further. They also explained that Mr O will need to raise his concerns 
with his representative about its actions regarding the debt collection activity, because HSBC 
cant be held responsible for the actions of a third party. 
Mr O disagreed with the adjudicator. 
In an attempt to informally resolve the complaint, one of our adjudicators asked HSBC 
whether it would be willing to pay the difference in the interest payments to Mr O.
HSBC did not agree to do so. It said that the delays were largely caused by Mr O not 
providing his bank details after the final response had been issued and that further delays 
and inconvenience was caused by the wrong details being provided. 
HSBC also explained that the amount in question is only around £2.30, and this is much less 
than the overseas payment fee which it would typically apply to such overseas payments  
which HSBC says it had agreed to waive on this occasion. HSBC pointed out that it had 
waived the fee, even though it had attempted to make the redress payment a number of 
times for Mr O. 
As neither party could agree on the outcome, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think HSBC needs to do anything more to put matters 
right in this case.
Mr O says that hed written to HSBC a number of times. But from the evidence I have seen, 
it seems the first time HSBC did receive any bank details from Mr O was in February 2023  
which was around 5 months after the final response letter had been sent to his 
representative. 
Im also mindful that HSBC did attempt to make the payment multiple times. And although 
Mr O insists hed provided the correct details, the evidence does indicate that it was more 
likely the case that the payment failed because HSBC had been provided with the incorrect 
details. I also think that matters were complicated further given that Mr O was no longer a 
customer of HSBC, nor did he have a UK address or account, and so HSBC was limited in 
how it could make the payment to Mr O.
So, in the circumstances of this complaint, I think that a large part of the delay in the 
payment being made was caused by factors outside of HSBCs control. And so I dont think 
HSBC is being unreasonable by not paying the extra amount of interest to Mr O  which 
HSBC equates to be around £2.30. I say this especially as it has agreed to waive its 
overseas payment fee on the transaction.
I appreciate that this matter has been frustrating for Mr O, in part because it seems that his 
bank had provided him with the incorrect information. I can also see that it has escalated 
somewhat because of the actions taken by his representative. However, I cant hold HSBC 
responsible for the actions of his representative. 
Ultimately, the decision by the representative to pursue Mr O for its share of the redress, 
before it had even been paid to Mr O, is something that Mr O will need to take up with his 
representative. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman