DRN-2676991
The complaint
Miss E complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly introduced a transfer payment on her
crowdfunding accounts.
What happened
Miss E opened a loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding Classic Account with Funding
Circle in November 2016 and another in an ISA wrapper in April 2018. Funding Circles
platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest
payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to
borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of Miss Es
complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a way for
investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by way of a
secondary market.
Miss E complained to Funding Circle as she was unhappy that it was introducing a new
transfer payment in December 2019, which would apply to loan parts she currently had for
sale on the secondary market. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all
loan parts sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought
the individual loan parts. She said the terms and conditions she originally agreed to said
there would be no transfer fee for selling loan parts, so it wasnt fair to later introduce one.
Miss E had already put some of her loan parts up for sale before Funding Circle introduced
the transfer payment and had been waiting for some time for these to sell. She said her
reasons for selling was because of Funding Circles poor due diligence; poor default
management, poor loan recovery rates, poor communications and that shed seen better
rates, service and provision funds in place with other platforms. She said the long sales
queues were a symptom of these failings, but she didnt complain about any specific loans.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Miss Es complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified this isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and instead is a payment made 
to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans. So Miss E could access her funds 
whilst avoiding paying this transfer fee if she switched off her lending facility and 
withdrew her monthly repayments on her loan parts.
It was confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Miss Es consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Es complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments and it had given 
enough notice to Miss E of the changes.
Miss E had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue if she wasnt 
happy with the changes.
There was no guarantee that Miss E would have sold all her loan parts if the changes 
werent made. And the ability to sell loans on the secondary market is an optional 
facility that peer-to-peer lenders dont have to provide.
Miss E was looking to sell her loan parts and the new transfer payment could act as 
an incentive for investors to buy her loan parts sooner.
Miss E didnt accept our investigators opinion and she referenced the Financial Conduct
Authoritys (FCA) guidance on the fairness of variation terms to support her points. In
summary she said:
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow for amendments to be made but not if 
they disadvantage investors. She had been disadvantaged financially and it only 
benefitted those investors not selling or investors who started investing after the 
changes were introduced.
Funding Circle hadnt been transparent about their reasons for introducing the 
changes and how it determined the cost.
The FCAs guidance says introducing changes for fixed duration contracts is unfair. 
She signed up for a five-year account with Funding Circle so as it was for a fixed 
duration, the changes were unfairly introduced.
Having to incur a transfer fee, which was never agreed to, when selling loans does 
not amount to a freedom to exit.
Suggesting the transfer payment would result in quicker sales is unfounded and the 
investigators comments around it acting as incentive to buyers contradicts the FCAs 
guidance which says changes shouldnt be made to allow a firm to remain 
competitive or support growth.
Ultimately, the new terms do not strike a fair balance overall between the legitimate 
interests of the firm and the legitimate interests of the consumer.
The investigator responded to Miss Es further points. In summary she said:
Funding Circle need to treat all its consumers equally and it wouldnt be fair for it to 
apply the new terms to some consumers and not others.
She didnt agree with Miss Es comments that the change was introduced for Funding 
Circle to remain competitive or support growth. Instead she thought it did so to 
adhere to FCAs regulations in ensuring the price offered for exiting a peer-to-peer 
agreement is fair and appropriate.
She said market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying 
investors had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were 
getting longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors 
wouldve also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early 
wouldve also been compromised or delayed.The new 1.25% transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives  
instead it acts as a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price 
adjustment rather than a fee.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigators further comments. She said no investor already
trying to exit would agree to a transfer payment being set unilaterally, with no understanding
of how the fee was calculated. She said Funding Circle made no mention of price adjustment
in its email explaining why it was introducing the changes. Furthermore, Funding Circle is
not making any judgement about each loan sale, all are treated the same.
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021. In it I said:
the regulatory and legal framework
Funding Circle is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the
FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are PRIN 2.1.1R (2) which says:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
And PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Funding Circle is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are COBS 2.1.1R (1)
which says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
And COBS 4.2.1R (1) which says:
A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion is fair, clear and 
not misleading.
Ive also considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my provisional
decision.
introducing the transfer payment
Funding Circle sent Miss E an email in October 2019 explaining it was introducing the
transfer payment, which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email also explained that
Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new terms and conditions explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous terms and conditions:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
 to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we
no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. I understand that Miss E doesnt
think it was fair for Funding Circle to introduce the transfer payment by way of this variation
clause. However, its not my role to determine if Funding Circle were legally able to include a
clause like this in its terms and conditions. That would be something for a Court to decide.
However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference contained in section 228 of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond the strict terms and conditions
to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
I understand that Miss E feels quite strongly that the transfer payment Funding Circle has
introduced is a fee, which is to her detriment when selling her loan parts on the
secondary market. However, I dont agree that the transfer payment is a fee. Instead Id
consider it to be a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the secondary
market. I say this as Funding Circle has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from
the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who purchase the individual
loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as discount incentive to these buyers.
In June 2019 the FCA published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and
investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the
FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should re-price
loans. It implemented this way of introducing new rules into COBS which came into force in
December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Miss Es case, Funding Circle was facilitating an exit for her by way of selling her loanparts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Miss Es loan parts are fair and
appropriate on the secondary market. Its also apparent from the timing of Funding Circles
decision to update its terms, that it likely did so to adhere to the new rules introduced in
COBS.
Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment of 1.25% to all loans which are sold
by way of the secondary market. So in order to determine whether this is fair and
appropriate, its important to understand what considerations Funding Circle made before
introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding it considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts.
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment would have on both the buyer and 
seller of loan parts on the secondary market.

As well as these considerations, its apparent from both what Miss E has complained about
and Funding Circles own admissions, that sales queues on the secondary market were
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts
in this way. And, whilst Miss E might disagree, I believe the introduction of the transfer
payment clearly intended to combat these queues and aimed to reduce the wait time for
investors to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Miss Es loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Miss E but to the investors who intend to purchase them from her. It follows that if
the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then Funding
Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this.
I appreciate Miss E has raised many concerns regarding the fairness of the transfer payment
with reference to the FCAs guidance around variation terms. Whilst Ive considered these,
overall Im satisfied the term was fair and appropriate for the reasons Ive given above. Many
of the points Miss E has made are regarding fees  including that she isnt able to exit
without incurring a fee. However, Ive explained why I dont consider the transfer payment to
be a fee. Regarding her point around transparency, whilst I agree it would have been helpful
for Funding Circle to include its regulatory obligations for re-pricing loans on the secondary
market in its reasons for introducing the changes, it has confirmed this was a consideration
at the time. And I dont agree this makes the term unfair.
Its also important to consider Miss E doesnt have to sell her loan parts on the secondary
market if she doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained,the transfer payment is only triggered if Miss E decides to exit from her investment before
the maturity date of the loans. So she is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan parts
until they mature and withdrawing her monthly repayments.
Furthermore, theres no guarantee that loan parts will sell on the secondary market 
something which Funding Circle makes clear in its terms and conditions:
10.6. There is no guarantee that your Loan Parts will be transferred, nor any
assurance as to how long it may take to do so."
With all this in mind, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Miss Es loan
parts on the secondary market. It appropriately considered the impact this would have on
Miss E before implementing the transfer payment and it gave Miss E reasonable notice, as
well as the option to keep her investments without incurring a transfer payment.
Responses to my provisional findings
Funding Circle accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments. Miss E didnt
accept my provisional findings. In summary she said:
Funding Circles email explained that it was introducing the changes in the hope it 
would attract new customers to the platform and to bring it in-line with other lending 
platforms. And this contradicts the FCAs guidance around variation terms.
Whist she accepts that Funding Circle was able to introduce the transfer payment 
under its regulatory requirements, it was unacceptable that Funding Circle didnt 
mention this as a reason for implementing the changes in its email to investors. As 
such, shed like me to consider the how Funding Circles poor communication and 
explanation has caused her upset and confusion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to repeat the findings I made in my provisional decision  they are set out
above and I dont consider the information Miss E has provided in response to that
provisional decision makes a material difference to what Ive previously said. However, I will 
cover Miss Es additional points she has raised. 
Attracting new customers and bringing it in-line with other platforms were only some of the 
reasons why Funding Circle introduced the changes. I explained what considerations 
Funding Circle took into account before making its decision and Im satisfied they were fair 
and reasonable. Furthermore, the FCAs guidance around variation terms talks about  
striking a fair balance between the legitimate interests of both the supplier and consumer 
and that introducing changes to remain competitive isnt considered to be a valid reason  
mainly as it doesnt relate to the costs of providing the product or service. In Miss Es case, 
Funding Circles changes arent in relation to its costs in providing the service to her  its a 
pricing instrument in which Funding Circle receives no payment. And Funding Circles 
decision to introduce it was for regulatory requirements which strike a fair balance between 
buying and selling investors.  
I agree that Funding Circle could have provided further rationale regarding its decision to 
introduce the changes in its initial email to investors. And had it done so, I appreciate this 
could have avoided causing confusion and worry for Miss E. But I dont think this warrants compensation and on balance, Im not persuaded it would have prevented Miss E bringing 
her complaint to our service. Although Funding Circles final response letter to Miss E didnt 
mention the COBS rules specifically, it did explain it had carefully considered the legal and 
regulatory issues that arise when making changes of this nature. Its clear to me that there 
were a number of factors which contributed to Funding Circle implementing the changes and 
it made best efforts to communicate these to investors by way of emails and signposting to 
its website. Whilst, it didnt cover off all the points it considered, I dont think its actions were 
unfair or unreasonable in all of the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Es complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman