DRN-4326219
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has declined to refund him payments that he 
made in relation to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr P says he fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam after he was added to a new 
WhatsApp group chat. He saw members of the group discussing their investments and 
profits, and then one of the brokers reached out to him directly. Mr P was told he needed to 
first obtain cryptocurrency through an exchange and then use this to invest. He allowed the 
broker, who he now believes to be a scammer, to help him set up an account with a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform  which Ill refer to as H.
Between October 2021 and January 2022 Mr P made over 40 debit card payments totalling 
over £37,000 to H. From there he and the scammer would send cryptocurrency on to a third 
party that he believed was a legitimate investment provider  Ill refer to it as T.
Mr P says he started with a smaller amount and increased this after he was able to withdraw 
funds once, and that the scammer showed him live numbers and graphs which looked 
legitimate. However, when he tried to withdraw some of his profits he lost all contact with the 
scammer and soon after Ts online investment portal disappeared.
Barclays declined Mr Ps claim on the basis that the chargebacks it attempted were 
unsuccessful  it said Mr P had paid a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and received the 
relevant service i.e. cryptocurrency credited to his e-wallet.
When Mr P complained to our service, the initial investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Upon receiving further evidence, a second investigator then upheld the complaint. In 
summary they said they thought Mr P had been the victim of a scam and that Barclays 
should have intervened at the first payment. They thought this would have prevented Mr Ps 
loss and so they recommended Barclays provide a full refund plus 8% simple interest.
Mr P accepted this outcome, but Barclays didnt respond. Both parties have had a further 
opportunity to provide any comments in relation to this matter, but Barclays has not done so 
by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for the following reasons:
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr P has been the victim of a scam. For 
completeness, based on the information available Im persuaded that he was. This is 
because Mr Ps version of events is plausible and consistent with well-known scams, 
its supported by evidence of his communication with the scammer, and there are 
now multiple scam reports online about T.
Mr P has confirmed that he made the disputed payments which means they were 
authorised. So, the starting point under the relevant regulations is that Barclays was 
expected to execute those payments without undue delay. But Barclays also has 
certain duties to protect its customers, including against the risk of financial loss due 
to fraud which is where I think it fell short.
On 19 August 2021 the International Organisation of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) included a warning about H on its investor alerts portal  this came from a 
Spanish regulator. So, I think its reasonable to expect Barclays to have updated its 
watchlist by the time Mr P attempted his first payment to it on 11 October 2021. While 
this warning doesnt necessarily mean that H isnt a legitimate platform, it should 
have been enough to cause Barclays to intervene. 
Had Barclays stopped Mr Ps first payment and asked appropriate probing questions, 
I think the scam wouldve been revealed. We have no reason to think Mr P wouldnt 
have provided honest answers in the circumstances, so its likely he would have 
explained hed been contacted unexpectedly via WhatsApp about an investment 
opportunity. And that hed been encouraged to purchase cryptocurrency through H 
and then move it on to what hed been led to believe was the investment platform T. 
Further, that a third party purporting to be a broker had helped him set up these 
accounts and made payments directly.
As this had the hallmarks of a typical cryptocurrency scam at the time, it would have 
been appropriate for Barclays to provide a warning to Mr P in relation to this. This 
would have given Mr P a reason to doubt the legitimacy of the investment and 
educated him on the risks associated with this potentially being a scam. As a result, 
he likely wouldnt have gone on to make further payments to H. So, I think an 
appropriately significant intervention would more likely than not have prevented the 
loss that Mr P is seeking to recover now.
Ive considered whether Mr P bears some responsibility for the loss here, and 
therefore whether it would be fair to make a deduction to the award in the 
circumstances. Here, Mr P didnt have investment experience, and there were 
sophisticated techniques used (such as Ts online portal and the trading graphs that 
he was shown) which made the investment look legitimate. I appreciate that Mr P 
may not have carried out any in-depth external checks on T. But even if he had, Im 
not persuaded he would necessarily have discovered that they were likely fraudulent. 
This is because there werent poor reviews or scam reports easily discoverable 
online at the time (as there are now). So, I dont consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce Mr Ps compensation on the basis that he was negligent in the 
circumstances.
So, for the reasons explained I dont think Barclays acted fairly in declining Mr Ps request 
for a refund of the disputed payments  these total £37,560. To recognise the time Mr P has 
been without these funds, I also think Barclays should pay Mr P interest on this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr P the following:
1. £37,560  this is the total amount Mr P paid to H and lost as a result of the scam.2. Add 8% simple interest per year to that amount from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement.
*If Barclays Bank UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman