DRN-4381609
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd handled her request 
to switch her ISA investment to a new fund. She says there were delays and the handling 
caused her inconvenience and impacted her wellbeing. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr Ss husband wrote to Virgin on her behalf to ask for her existing stocks 
and shares ISA to be transferred to a Climate Change fund. They chased the fund switch 
over the following months and had various communications with Virgin trying to get the 
switch finalised. Eventually on 6 June 2022 the funds switch was completed. Virgin sent a 
cheque for £50 to recognise the delays in dealing with the request. But as Mrs S wasnt clear 
that she hadnt been disadvantaged by Virgins handling of the switch she continued to 
raised queries throughout June and July 2022. 
In late August 2022, Virgin wrote to Mrs S to confirm the switch had taken place on 6 June, 
and a price comparison was completed on 30 June to see if she had lost out because of the 
delays in completing the switch. This resulted in Virgin purchasing further units and adding 
them to her investment. It also apologised for any distress, delays and inconvenience it 
caused and said it would send an ex-gratia payment of £100 in recognition of this. 
Mrs S continued to query whether the fund swich had been correctly completed and 
contacted our service for help at the end of September 2022. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint. She acknowledged that the fund switch had been delayed and Virgin 
should have dealt with things better. But she thought it had already fairly compensated Mrs 
S for the problems she incurred, so didnt recommend any further compensation. 
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings. She reiterated her concerns that she had 
wasted time and money over many months trying to get everything sorted. She says Virgin 
has provided false information. She also raised a further point about still not receiving the bi-
annual payments from the fund into her bank account as she requested.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear from the submissions of both parties that the fund switch that Mrs S requested in 
February 2022, wasnt handled in the way it should have been. While I havent detailed 
everything thats happened, I want to reassure Mrs S that I have read everything she has 
told us about the problems she encountered in making the fund switch. Because Virgin has 
accepted that it did make errors and caused delays, I will focus on whether the subsequent 
action it has taken fairly compensates Mrs S for its errors. 
I also note that Mrs Ss husband was seeking to make a similar fund switch to investments 
held in his name. I note correspondence was sent at times on behalf of each other regarding 
the switch, which is understandable given they are a married couple making the same 
request. While they both have separate complaints (because their investments were held 
individually) which we are considering, in reaching my decision Ive taken into account the 
fact their dealings with Virgin were often on a joint basis or on behalf of one another. 
Firstly, with regard to financially loss, Im satisfied that Virgin has taken the appropriate steps 
to compensate Mrs S for any loss caused by the delays in completing the fund switch. The 
fund switch should have been completed in February 2022 shortly after the first request was 
made. But due to delays it wasnt completed until the 6 June 2022. Virgin has accepted 
responsibility for the delays. It looked at whether Mrs S would have been able to purchase 
more units using the value of her investment if it was completed without delay. Its calculation 
shows that she would have received more units in the Climate Change fund in February 
2022 than she actually did when the switch completed in June 2022. This is her financial 
loss. To compensate her it purchased the additional units shortly afterwards and added them 
to her fund. Im satisfied this method fairly compensates Mrs S for the loss she suffered due 
to the delay because she now has the same number of units as should have received if the 
switch was completed in February 2022  as it should have been. 
Mrs S has provided details of the practical and emotional impact Virgins handling of the 
situation has caused her and her husband. I have considered all of the evidence provided by 
Mrs S. I can see that she has suffered inconvenience in needing to chase things up and 
arranging for many letters to be sent to seek clarification. She has also provided information 
on how the whole situation has impacted her wellbeing, particularly causing worry about 
what was going on. I do think it is appropriate for Virgin to compensate her for this. It has 
clarified that it has made payments to her totally £150. As mentioned, Mrs Ss husband also 
corresponded with Virgin regarding the fund switch on her behalf. I note he has also been 
offered compensation individually as part of his complaint.  Ive considered the impact of 
Virgins action on Mrs S, overall, I find that compensation offered to her to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Lastly, I note that Mrs S has made submissions and queries whether Virgin has set up and 
made payments to her to provide income from the new fund. She has mentioned she was 
expecting to receive bi-annual payments into her back account. Virgin has clarified that the 
Climate Change fund is a distribution fund. This means any income earned by the fund is 
reinvested, and no income would be paid to clients (unlike Mrs Ss previous fund). Virgin 
says this information was included in the key investor information document (KIID). Ive 
reviewed this document and see that it does confirm that income from the funds would be 
reinvested - and Ive seen nothing to suggest bi-annual income would be paid to Mrs S. Ive 
also seen evidence in a letter signed by Mrs S on 31 May 2022 that she had reviewed the 
KIID. So, while I appreciate that Mrs S was expecting to receive income payments, this isnt 
something that is a feature of the fund she selected. It follows that I havent found that Virgin 
has made an error by not making payments or setting them up to be paid to Mrs Ss bank 
account. But rather Ive found the new fund operates differently to the previous fund Mrs S 
was invested in which did make income payments. 
In conclusion, I find Virgin failed to handle Mrs Ss fund switch in a timely manner. It has 
ensured she hasnt been disadvantaged by the delays by completing a unit comparison and 
adding additional units to her investment. It has also offered compensation to reflect the 
impact of its handling of the request. I find the actions taken to cover any financial loss and 
the level of compensation offered to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
understand the compensation was paid by cheque, but Im unsure if they have been cashed 
by Mrs S. If the cheques havent (or cant) been cashed then Virgin should cancel and 
reissue them, so Mrs S receives the compensation. My final decision
My decision is the actions taken my Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd to compensate 
Mrs S are fair and reasonable in resolution of the complaint. I do not require it to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman