DRN-1157124
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in May 2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in May 2002. The policy was 
added to Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card. The policy cost around 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mrs M in the event she wasnt 
working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Following a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms complaint.
BOS has provided a copy of the application form that Mrs M completed at the time, although 
its not clear how the sale took place  in a bank branch or by post  although its more likely 
that it took place in Mrs Ms local branch. So its very difficult for me to know what Mrs M was 
told when she took out the credit card and PPI policy. The application form shows that the 
policy was optional  a customer had a choice about whether they wished to purchase PPI. 
I accept it is possible BOS gave her the impression she had to take it out. But it seems 
equally likely the bank gave Mrs M the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part 
of her credit card application, and that she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten in 
the 18 years that have now elapsed.
This means Im not persuaded (as I must be to uphold Mrs Ms complaint) its more likely 
than not BOS presented the policy to Mrs M as compulsory, or that it didnt tell her about the 
policy at all, or that it indicated that it would assist her overall credit card application. And as 
PPI appeared on her monthly credit card statements, had it been added to her account 
without either her knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge 
this shortly after the account first opened in 2002.
In this case Im satisfied that BOS didnt provide advice about whether Mrs M should take 
out the policy. Our knowledge of the BOS sales process from this time indicates that PPI 
policies were sold on a non-advised basis. This means that BOS was not required to 
establish the suitability of the policy for Mrs M; this was a decision that she needed to make 
for herself.I have, however, considered whether BOS met its obligation to provide Mrs M with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she 
could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying. 
Taking everything into consideration, I am persuaded it is more likely than not that Mrs Ms 
information needs were not fully met. However, in this case, I dont think Mrs M suffered 
detriment as a result. I say this because after careful consideration Ive decided that, on the 
balance of probabilities, even if shed been fully aware of all aspects of the policy, Mrs M is 
still likely to have taken it out. I say this because:
 
At the time of Mrs Ms application, she met the eligibility criteria and she told us that 
she was employed and that she was in good health. She, therefore, wouldnt have 
been caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions contained within 
these types of policy, such as those relating to health or employment that could limit 
the value of the policy in the event of a claim.
 
Mrs M has told us that she would have received some sick pay from her employer in 
the event that she was unable to work due to accident or sickness. However, this 
policy paid out a benefit of 10% of her monthly outstanding balance for 12 months in 
the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and was therefore at a higher level 
than her existing occupational provision. In the unfortunate event of Mrs Ms death, it 
wouldve paid off her credit card balance in full. So, although I accept the information 
may not have been clear, fair and not misleading, I dont think that Mrs M wouldve 
acted any differently had that information been made clearer.
 
I understand that the cost of the policy was no higher than 78p for every £100 of 
balance outstanding. In the event of a successful claim it would pay out 10% of the 
outstanding balance for 12 months. Whilst it may not have been made clear that the 
premiums were interest bearing and so the benefit is reduced because of that, it 
nevertheless remains a competitive benefit and higher than similar policies of its 
type. On balance, I dont think Mrs M would have been put off by the cost, had it 
been made clearer and I find it likely she wouldve proceeded with the policy, in any 
event.
 
Furthermore, the PPI transaction and cost appeared on her monthly credit card 
statement, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mrs M, or it became 
unaffordable, she couldve cancelled it at any point without penalty.
 
Overall, while I dont think that BOS met Mrs Ms information needs, having considered the 
position carefully I am not persuaded that Mrs M suffered detriment as a result of this. 
Rather, it seems more likely to me that given her circumstances she wouldve decided the 
policy provided valuable protection in relation to her new credit card (and potential liability) 
and still gone ahead with it.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Ms other comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman