DRN-2617608
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C says that Vanquis should not have allowed him to open a credit card account and didnt 
carry out appropriate affordability checks. He says the income he declared wasnt accurate 
and had numerous debts when the account was opened and when the credit limit was 
increased. Mr C says he wasnt asked any questions by Vanquis about his mental health 
and would like all interest and charges refunded. He would also like interest paid on that 
refund and for any adverse information removed from his credit file.
Vanquis says the account was opened in April 2011 with a credit limit of £500 which was 
increased to £1,000 in August 2011 and later to £2,000 in April 2012. It says Mr C declared 
an income of £78,000 and it carried out all appropriate credit checks. Vanquis says Mr Cs 
debt decreased from the time he opened the account and was just over £1,000 at the time of 
the second credit limit increase. It says the account defaulted in 2014 and Mr C made 
significant repayments in 2011 and 2012.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Vanquis carried out appropriate and proportionate credit checks. And at 
the time of the lending and credit limit increases, Mr C didnt have any defaults or County 
Court Judgements (CCJs) on the credit file searched by Vanquis. The investigator thought 
the original credit limit relatively modest and Vanquis couldnt have known that Mr C would 
have lost his job in June 2012 or ought to have asked him about his mental health.
Mr C doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the affordability of any 
form of lending. Those checks will of course vary depending on the amount or type of any 
borrowing or credit. There is no dispute here that Mr C was provided with a credit facility 
rather than for example a loan.
I have looked at Mr Cs credit card application and can see that he declared an income of 
£78,000. I appreciate Mr C says that figure was inflated, and that Vanquis ought to have 
checked it. But I think that Mr C was required to provide accurate information and confirmed 
that he had done so by signing the application. I dont think Mr C has told us or Vanquis what 
his actual household income was or by how much it was inflated.
I have looked carefully at Vanquiss records and Im satisfied it carried out appropriate and 
proportionate checks on the initial application and the two credit limit increases. I can see 
that Vanquis considered Mr Cs debt on opening the account and the two reviews which led 
to the credit limit increases. And Im satisfied that on the credit file Vanquis used, Mr C didnt 
have any reported defaults or CCJs. So, I dont think the decision to allow Mr C to open the 
account was irresponsible or that it was unaffordable, and I think a relatively modest credit 
limit of £500 was approved.
Im satisfied that Vanquis fairly and appropriately assessed the two credit limit increases. 
And I have seen evidence from its records that Mr Cs debt had reduced by the time of the 
first increase and reduced significantly by the time of the second. I also think that Mr C had 
managed his account appropriately by making on the whole the required payments. I accept 
there were some late payments, but I dont think they had any significant impact and were 
not repeated over a period of time. So, I dont think the credit limit increases were 
unaffordable or the decision to approve them was irresponsible.
I appreciate Mr C says he had defaults recorded against him and I can see that he has 
provided letters from different credit providers which confirm he had other debts. But due to 
understandable reasons, Mr C is unable to provide his credit report from 2011. And I cant be 
sure what was recorded on his credit file at that time. I can see that Vanquis didnt have 
information about such defaults on the credit file it searched. And so, I cant fairly hold 
Vanquis responsible for that and I have made clear that Im satisfied it carried out 
appropriate and proportionate checks.
I have looked at Mr Cs credit card statements from when the account was opened in 2011. I 
think they show the account was relatively well manged after it was opened and after the 
credit limit increases. I find that provides additional evidence that Vanquis didnt make a 
mistake here and I cant fairly hold it responsible for Mr C losing his job and the change in 
his circumstances.
I appreciate Mr C questions why Vanquis didnt ask him about his mental health problems. 
But I dont think Vanquis could have known about that unless Mr C told it about any such 
issues, and I dont think it is under any requirement to ask its potential customers about such 
matters.
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis carried out all reasonable and proportionate checks here 
and so I cant fairly order it to refund any interest or charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman