DRN-3295367
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM), did not 
execute his stop loss order to sell shares when the limit price was reached. 
What happened
Mr Q has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He submitted a stop loss 
instruction to sell specific shares if they fell below the price of 120p per share. On 
9 November 2020 the stop loss was triggered but the order wasnt executed. Mr Q says hes 
lost out because he wanted to sell the shares and buy them back at a lower price. 
HLAM looked into Mr Qs concerns and apologised for the inconvenience. It said this was 
due to exceptional levels of demand which affected account access for some of its 
customers. It pointed to its terms and conditions which say that it cant guarantee that stop 
loss orders will be executed and so isnt liable for any loss caused by an order not being 
fulfilled. 
Mr Q remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. In short, she concluded that HLAM had 
experienced difficulties with its systems on that day, but the terms and conditions set out that 
HLAM wasnt liable for any losses Mr Q said he made. 
Mr Q didnt agree. In summary he said hed experienced a failure in service from HLAM and 
its error had resulted in him making a financial loss. He wanted to be compensated for this. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint, I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr Q, but Ill explain why. 
HLAM wrote to Mr Q in December 2020 following its initial investigation into Mr Qs 
complaint, it said having looked into matters further it seems that the order wasnt executed 
because Mr Q had insufficient stock. 
Ive been provided with a screenshot by Mr Q which shows me the number of units he held 
in this stock and the date he last dealt in it. I am satisfied Mr Q wouldve held sufficient stock 
at the time of trying to place the order in November 2020 so I cant fairly say this is the 
reason the order wasnt executed. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Qs account. Amongst other things, this says: 
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
HLAMs website also says: 
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be executed, 
even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If you are not 
comfortable with this, you should not use this service. 
And it goes on to explain that market conditions may be a factor in preventing a stop loss 
order being executed. 
I think these terms make it reasonably clear that HLAM cannot guarantee a stop loss/ limit 
order will be executed in all circumstances. I also think HLAMs website explains the risks 
involved with these types of orders.
I should also note that on 9 November 2020 there was a significant increase in market 
activity following the news about the Covid-19 vaccine along with the US election result. The 
demand from HLAMs customers also surged and unfortunately Mr Q was one of the 
customers who was affected. 
I know this wouldve been frustrating for Mr Q. But, due to the circumstances, I dont find it 
unreasonable that the order wasnt executed due to the increased demands on its service. 
HLAM wasnt able to offer its usual level of service, considering the market conditions on this 
day.  
Ive also reviewed the price of the instrument Mr Q wanted to trade and noted the fluctuation 
after November 2020. Whilst I accept there were periods when the price decreased below 
Mr Qs intended sale price, at times it also increased. And so, I find that Mr Q had the 
opportunity to trade his stock as he initially intended to in November 2020.  
I do sympathise with Mr Q  it must have been very frustrating to face difficulties and delays 
when he wanted to trade. But, overall, I think it was made reasonably clear that placing a 
stop loss order does not guarantee a sale at a specified price. HLAM made it clear there 
may be reasons why an order cant be executed even if the specified price is reached. 
It follows that I dont find HLAM is obliged to compensate Mr Q for the difficulties he 
encountered in trying to access its dealing service that day, or for any trades he may have 
wanted to carry out. I find that HLAM handled Mr Qs order in line with its agreed terms and 
conditions. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman