DRN-1419146
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). 
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card in 1999. In 2004 almost five years after the credit card was 
agreed and used he was sold a PPI policy over the phone by Barclays. 
The policy cost 0.79p per £100 of the balance on Mr Ms credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr M was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought because the policy 
was added some time after the credit card was taken out Mr M wouldve understood it was 
optional and that the policy provided a useful benefit. 
Mr M disagrees, he says he never asked for PPI and would never agree to it so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr M he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose 
to take it. The policy was sold over the phone five years after Mr Ms credit card account was 
opened. I dont know what was discussed with Mr M at the time he was sold the policy but 
he was given the option to take PPI with his original credit card application and didnt take it. 
But because PPI was applied to Mr Ms account years after the credit card account was 
opened and he was given the option to take PPI on his credit card application, I think he 
wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think PPI was 
likely applied to his account because following a phone call with Barclays he chose to take it. 
Though I can understand given the length of time that has passed why he may not 
remember this.
If Mr M hadnt agreed to PPI I wouldve expected him to question why Payment Protection 
was showing on his monthly statements and for him to have cancelled the policy. 
Barclays say it recommended Mr M take the policy. What this means is that Barclays not 
only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way so 
that Mr M could make an informed choice about buying it. It also had to make sure that if it 
were to recommend the policy that it was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to some sick pay which he could 
use to make his repayments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on 
top of this and covered him if he lost his job - for up to 12 months. So I think the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr M in his circumstances. 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
if he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it. 
I also need to consider whether Barclays gave Mr M information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr M has told us about his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy if hed been given all 
the proper information on it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman