DRN-4060906
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr T made to Nationwide Building Society to 
buy a leasehold property. Mr Ts solicitors exchanged contracts on his purchase after 
Nationwide had told them they could proceed as normal. The following day, Nationwide 
reduced the mortgage offer due to a mistake over the duration of the lease; Mr T was only 
able to complete by borrowing money from a personal friend. Mr T is represented in the 
complaint by Miss T. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr T and Nationwide Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr T being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr T was a first-time buyer, and had applied for the mortgage with Nationwide through a 
mortgage broker Ill call M. In February 2022, Nationwide issued an offer for £89,000, based 
on a purchase price of £105,000; the offer recorded the lease on the property as having 
115 years left on it. The information about the lease had been taken from the valuation 
carried out on 27 January 2022 by an independent surveyor instructed by Nationwide. The 
offer was updated on 4 March 2022, albeit the information listed above was unchanged.
In June 2022, Nationwides solicitors reported to it that the lease only had 89 years left. As 
this had the potential to impact on the amount it was willing to lend, Nationwide referred the 
case back to the surveyor for review. On 18 July 2022, Nationwide contacted Mr Ts 
solicitors to say: We have received a response from the valuer, they have confirmed the 
lease term is acceptable and you may proceed with the application as normal.
Based on this message, Mr Ts solicitors exchanged contracts with his seller the following 
day. However, the day after that  i.e. 20 July 2022  Nationwide announced that the 
valuation had been reduced to £98,000 as a consequence of the shorter lease, and it was 
now only willing to lend £83,300. Faced with the prospect of a financial sanction if he failed 
to complete on the purchase, Mr T borrowed £5,300 from a personal friend, whom Ill call 
Mr H, at short notice. 
Miss T complained on Mr Ts behalf. She said that Mr T, who has health issues, had been 
hugely stressed by what had happened, and that the cost of repaying Mr H was now 
impacting on him financially as he settles into his new home. Nationwide accepted it had 
made a mistake and offered Mr T £200 compensation. 
When the case came to us, our investigator asked Nationwide to increase its redress offer 
by £550  to £750 in all. Nationwide agreed to do this, but Mr T has asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He thinks at the very least, Nationwide should reimburse 
him the money has was forced to borrow from Mr H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Nationwide had admitted liability and 
offered redress to put things right. What remains in dispute, and what I have to decide, is 
whether Nationwides offer is fair, or if it needs to do more.
To be clear, Nationwides mistake wasnt to reduce its offer; it was legitimately entitled to do 
that once the error over the duration of the lease came to light. Meanwhile, that error wasnt 
Nationwides doing either; it had relied, quite reasonably, on the information provided to it in 
the first valuation. No, Nationwides error, purely and simply, was to send a message to 
Mr Ts solicitors that made them believe, also quite reasonably, that they could commit Mr T 
to the purchase.
Critical to my decision is whether and to what extent Mr Ts current position would be 
different if Nationwide hadnt mistakenly induced his solicitors to exchange contracts. Thats 
why I asked what he would have done differently if, as should have happened, hed be told 
about the lending reduction before he became legally committed to the purchase. 
Miss T has described that as an unfair question, and I do appreciate the sentiment. 
However, it is a necessary question, and I thank her for answering as honestly and openly 
as she has, on Mr Ts behalf. Based on what Miss T has said, the only conclusion I can fairly 
reach is that Mr T would still have gone ahead with the purchase, with the assistance of the 
money Mr H lent him. 
So the position in which Mr T currently finds himself is, in all likelihood, where he would have 
been if Nationwide hadnt caused the premature exchange of contracts. But if Nationwide 
hadnt done that, it would not have come as such a shock to Mr T that hed need to find the 
shortfall elsewhere. The loan from Mr H would still have happened, but it would have been 
arranged in a more orderly fashion, and in a calmer environment where Mr T was not under 
pressure of being liable to forfeit his deposit if he didnt meet his obligation to complete.
Ive no doubt it was a horrible time Mr T. Aside from him being a first time buyer for whom 
everything that unfolded was a new experience, he doesnt enjoy good health. Taking 
everything into account, for the stress this undoubtedly caused him, I consider £750 
compensation to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Nationwide had previously 
offered Mr T £200, but its my understanding that was never actually paid to him. My award 
reflects that.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to pay Mr T £750 compensation for his time, trouble and upset.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman