DRN-4163553
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) irresponsibly gave her a credit card 
account she couldnt afford.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss B applied for and was granted a credit card account with BoS with a 
credit limit of £2,900. There were no credit limit increases after that. 
The card was closed in December 2021 after going into default. 
Miss B complained to BoS, saying that she shouldnt have been given the account and 
that BoS ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Since Miss B didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Did BoS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Miss Bs complaint is that BoS provided her with a level of credit that was unaffordable. BoS 
has explained it carried out a credit check using the information Miss B provided on her 
application as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It was then able 
to work out what credit it was able to offer. 
Before granting the account, BoS looked into Miss Bs financial situation, including the way 
she was managing her existing credit. Ive seen that Miss B told BoS she had a monthly 
income from her work of £30,000 and was a private tenant. She also set out on her 
application details about her typical monthly outgoings in terms of housing costs and other  
regular financial commitments. From the credit check it carried out, BoS also would likely 
have seen that Miss B had a good credit history. 
I agree with our adjudicator that BoS could have carried out better checks before granting 
the credit and that, given the relatively generous opening credit limit, one way to do this 
would have been to verify Miss Bs income so as to ensure that shed be able to make 
monthly sustainable repayments. I think sustainability is particularly relevant given that Miss 
B went on to use £2,250 of her available credit for a balance transfer. Whilst this may have 
been at a promotional rate, that would only have been available to Miss B for a specified 
period. Whilst Ive seen that BoS asked Miss B to provide details about her regular 
expenditure, I think better and more proportionate checks would have enable BoS to gain a 
more thorough understanding of Miss Bs financial circumstances before agreeing to open 
the account and then allow Miss B to immediately use a substantial amount of the available 
credit limit. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
I see our adjudicator asked Miss B for some further details and evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the relevant time. Miss B has sent us bank statements from the two main 
accounts she was using for the four months before the account was opened. Our adjudicator 
worked out that during this period Miss B was earning an a net average monthly income of 
around £1,950. I agree that, broadly speaking, based on the statements and the figures Miss 
B set out in her application, Miss B would have been left with around £550-600 in disposable 
income each month. I say that taking into account the existing monthly commitments she 
already had of around £680 plus her housing costs of £550. 
I think all this demonstrates that at the time Miss B appears to have had enough disposable 
income available each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards her new 
credit facility. I say this factoring in that sustainable monthly repayments on her card of, say 
5% of her outstanding balance after her promotional balance transfer rate had ended, would 
mean a monthly repayment of around £150. This would likely leave her with at least £400, 
out of which she would be able to meet other essential costs and still be left with disposable 
income for incidental expenses. Had BoS therefore completed proportionate checks before 
granting the credit, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act 
unfairly by opening the account for Miss B with the level of credit it granted her.
Having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont think Ive seen 
enough to show or suggest that Miss Bs card agreement with BoS was unaffordable. So I 
cant reasonably conclude that BoS ought to have known she might struggle to make the 
repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that BoS acted unfairly in approving her for the 
card with the limit it gave her. It follows that I dont think it needs to do anything more to put 
things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman