DRN-1689143
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that The Asset Exchange Ltd didnt provide him with a spare key for the 
car he had acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) and instead retained the 
spare key. 
  
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I take relevant regulations into account, but my role is to 
consider what is fair and reasonable given the unique circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr P entered into a HPA with the Asset Exchange in September 2019 to acquire a 
used car. Under a HPA the car remains under the ownership of the Asset Exchange 
until all payments have been made including any purchase option payments. 
The first part of Mr Ps complaint is that the car wasnt provided with a spare key. 
Having looked through the HPA there is no mention of a spare key and Mr P signed 
the vehicle handover form and accepted the car without a spare key being provided. 
Mr P has provided a copy of the questions he raised before colleting the car and 
these include the number of ignition keys, but I havent seen anything to show that he 
was told he would be provided with two sets of keys. Based on the information, I do 
not find that I can say a breach of contract or a mis-sale occurred by a spare key not 
being provided.
Having a spare key was important to Mr P and he has supported this with his 
explanation of how the car would be used and his concerns about only having one 
set of keys. That said, Mr P was provided with the offer to exit the agreement which 
he didnt accept so I cannot say that had he been told about only receiving one set of 
keys then he would have acted differently in regard to acquiring the car. Based on 
the information I have seen, I do not find that the issue of the spare key means a 
misrepresentation occurred.
The second part of Mr Ps complaint is that when he asked about the spare key, he 
was told that a key had been retained. I can understand that this was upsetting for 
Mr P. I have looked through the information provided and havent seen anything to 
show that the Asset Exchange made Mr P aware of this. 
The Asset Exchange has explained that its standard approach is to provide the car 
with one set of keys and to retain a second set for the duration of the HPA as security 
until the end of the HPA. It is not generally my role to say how a business should run 
its operations. However, I would find it reasonable that when a car is provided under 
HPA that the available keys are also provided. I understand the point the Asset 
Exchange has made about security but also note that there would be options 
available to the Asset Exchange to take back the car in the event Mr P breached his 
agreement and I cannot say that it would need to retain the key for this purpose.
Based on the points above, I find that the fair outcome in this complaint is for Mr P to 
be provided with the keys that came with the car when the Asset Exchange bought it 
at auction. In this case the Asset Exchange has explained that the spare key that it 
was provided didnt have remote. It sent this key to Mr P.
When entering the HPA it isnt unreasonable to expect to be provided with a spare 
key. As the spare that was sent to him wasnt fit for purpose, I find it reasonable that 
the Asset Exchange agreed to have a provider cut and code a new key.
While I understand why Mr P has been upset by the experience he has had with the 
acquisition of his car, I find that the fair resolution to this complaint is for him to have 
a spare key and for it to be confirmed that all keys have been provided to him. As the 
Asset Exchange agreed to cut and code a new key and has confirmed it has sent the 
spare key it had to Mr P, I find this a reasonable resolution.
Mr P has requested compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused but I do not find that this is required in this case. I say this because I didnt 
find that a spare key had been promised as part of the negotiations and so I do not 
require the Asset Exchange to compensate him for time without this. 
Based on the reasons above, I find that the Asset Exchange has done enough to resolve this 
complaint.
Putting things right
The Asset Exchange has provided Mr P with the spare key it initially retained and agreed to 
have a spare key cut and coded. I find that this is enough to put things right on this 
complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that The Asset Exchange Ltd has taken the required actions to resolve 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman