DRN-4501308
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way American International Group UK Limited (AIG) handled his 
claim under a car hire excess insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2023 Mr F took out a car hire excess insurance policy with AIG to cover him whilst 
driving a hired car in Spain. During the time the car was on hire to Mr F, it was damaged 
when he reversed into a pillar in a car park. Mr F contacted AIG to make a claim and 
provided all the information he thought was necessary. AIG asked him to re-send the 
photographs as it couldnt see them on the claim form. It also asked Mr F for more 
information about the amounts hed claimed for, which it said he could get from the car hire 
company (company D). AIG also approached company D but they said they couldnt provide 
that information to AIG and said Mr F would need to contact them directly. Mr F didnt get a 
reply from company D but AIG settled his claim seven days after he claimed.
Mr F complained. He was upset hed had to complete a long claim form and was then asked 
for further information, which he didnt think was necessary. He was then asked to provide 
photos hed already submitted. AIG acknowledged Mr F had provided the photos but said 
they were not showing on his claim form. It apologised for that error and for having to ask 
him to re-send them. It also said that further information might sometimes be necessary, and 
it quoted part of the terms and conditions of his policy to justify that. But Mr F pointed out 
that the section quoted wasnt relevant to his claim and he complained that this was 
misleading and dishonest.
AIG accepted the claim could have been handled better. It apologised and paid Mr F £50 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Our investigator didnt think there was any reason not to believe AIG when it said the 
photographs hadnt come through on its system, and she thought it was reasonable for it to 
ask for those again. She accepted AIG had referred to a clause in the terms and conditions 
that didnt apply and recognised that Mr F perceived that as being dishonest and had led to a 
loss of trust. But she thought AIG had done enough to put matters right.
Mr F didnt accept the investigators outcome and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. Mr F didnt think AIG should be allowed to mislead consumers in the way it 
had. And he didnt think £50 was enough of a disincentive for what he described as being 
underhand and manipulative practices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs policy set out what he would need to provide in the event 
of a claim. That included photographs of the damage and any other photographic evidence 
that might be helpful in assessing the claim. Mr F provided photos when he made his claim. 
But, for whatever reason, AIG said it couldnt see them when it came to assess it. So, it 
asked Mr F to re-send them. It later apologised for the system error that caused this problem 
and for the inconvenience caused to Mr F in having to re-send them. 
AIG also asked Mr F for further information about the amount he was claiming for. In 
particular, it wanted confirmation that the reference to paralization on the damage invoice 
was for loss of use of the damaged car. AIG has also pointed out that even though the costs 
charged to Mr F included an amount for paralization, which it assumed was for loss of use, 
Mr F had said there was no loss of use when he submitted his claim. So, I think it was fair for 
AIG to explore this matter further to make sure Mr F had been charged the correct amount 
by company D so it could accurately assess how much it should pay to cover his claim. 
AIG tried to obtain the information from company D directly, but they said they couldnt 
provide information to a third party and Mr F would need to request the information himself. I 
can understand why Mr F might have felt frustrated that he was being asked to get 
information he felt was unnecessary. But in the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AIG to ask him to do that. It felt it needed that information to assess his 
claim and company D said it would only provide that information through Mr F.
When Mr F complained about having to provide information he believed was over and above 
what was necessary, AIGs complaints handler tried to justify the request for that information 
by citing a term in his policy that wasnt relevant to his claim. They said the claim could be 
declined if he was unable to supply a repair receipt or damage matrix from the car hire 
company. But this only applied to claims where the cost of damage equalled the excess on 
the rental agreement. It didnt apply to Mr Fs claim. He believes AIGs actions in this respect 
were misleading and dishonest, and done deliberately to justify asking for information that 
wasnt necessary. 
I recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling on this matter and I can understand why he believes 
AIG deliberately misinformed him. When he challenged the complaints handler on this point, 
they acknowledged the term they quoted wasnt applicable. They said they were just trying 
to explain when a damage matrix or repairers invoice might be needed. AIGs complaints 
handler might simply have misunderstood the situation and thought that section of the policy 
did apply to his claim. Or it might be they deliberately chose to cite a term they knew wasnt 
applicable in an attempt to deflect Mr F from pursuing the matter. Whatever the case, I can 
understand Mr Fs frustration that he was told something that wasnt correct. It would have 
been better had the complaints handler simply explained why AIG had asked for the 
information it had.  
So, while I think it was fair and reasonable for AIG to try to clarify the loss of use or 
paralization costs, theres no doubt its made mistakes in its handling of Mr Fs claim. And its 
only fair it takes action to put things right. AIG has already taken steps to do that. Its 
apologised and given Mr F £50 by way of acknowledging the impact on him of its poor 
service. Should it do any more? On balance, I dont think it should. Let me explain why.
I should start by saying that its not my role to fine or punish a business  thats not what this 
service is here to do. My role is to decide if a business has done something wrong or acted 
unfairly and then decide how best to compensate the consumer for the impact caused by 
that mistake or unfairness. Claims of this nature can be time consuming and frustrating to 
deal with even when they run smoothly. Having to complete lengthy claim forms and 
correspond with businesses to check things are on track takes time and can be difficult to 
deal with. So, Mr F was always likely to suffer some degree of frustration. But theres no 
doubt AIG made things more difficult for him than they needed to be. Mr F had to re-send the 
photos hed already submitted. And he was misinformed about why AIG was asking for 
further information to support his claim. On balance, I think £50 is a fair and reasonable way of acknowledging the impact caused by that poor service. 
My final decision
American International Group UK Limited has already paid Mr F £50 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman