DRN-3397560
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sky UK Limited is charging him for a mobile phone which he returned.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I have every sympathy with Mr S and I can appreciate his frustration, but I regret to say I am 
unable to uphold his complaint. He had a phone provided by Sky which was in his care and 
control. His financial circumstances changed and he decided to return the phone, but it 
wasnt received by Sky.
Mr S says he returned it on 22 March 2021, but he has no evidence to support that. Sky 
wrote to him on 16 March 20221 with instructions on how to return the phone. These 
included the instructions: Post the package at your local post office, make sure you keep 
the proof of postage. These instructions were repeated in bold. Regrettably Mr S didnt keep 
any proof of postage.
The phone was activated several days after Mr S says he posted it and Sky has locked it. It 
may have been stolen, but I cannot hold Sky responsible as it was not responsible for the 
phone going astray. It did as it was contracted to do and supplied the phone and the fact that 
it has gone missing does not mean that it should write off the sum due.
If the phone had been lost or stolen under other circumstances Sky would not be responsible 
and it follows that as there is nothing it did wrong I cannot uphold this complaint. It may be 
that Mr S has some form of insurance cover which include phones.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
