DRN-4430193
The complaint
Mr W complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the service they 
provided after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. This included the condition of 
his car once it was returned to him, and the valuation placed on it.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr Ws car was damaged. So, he contacted AIC, the underwriter of his 
motor insurance policy, to make a claim. Mr Ws car was collected by a third-party agent, 
who Ill refer to as C, who inspected the car and deemed it to be a total loss. Mr W chose to 
retain the car, paying a retention fee so it could be returned to him.
But Mr W was unhappy with the length of time this process took. And he was unhappy with 
the condition of his car when it was returned, both externally and internally, as well as the 
valuation place on his car overall. So, he raised a complaint about all the above.
AIC responded to the complaint and upheld it. In total, they offered to pay Mr W £270 to 
recognise the delays in returning his car, and the impact this had. And they noted C 
themselves had offered to pay Mr W £140 to recognise the external and internal damage to 
his car. But both AIC and C disputed being responsible for the damage to Mr Ws ECU, as 
they didnt think an error they made had led to the water ingress seen within the car.
Mr W didnt agree with this response, so he referred his complaint to us. And while the 
complaint was with our service, Mr W obtained reports from independent garages confirming 
the ECU was damaged due to water ingress and, that Mr Ws car seals were intact. So, the 
car itself didnt present any faults that would lead to water ingress inadvertently.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were satisfied the 
compensation offered to Mr W for the delays he experienced was a fair one and so, they 
recommended AIC pay any outstanding amounts. And they were satisfied the valuation 
placed on Mr Ws car was fair, calculated in line with standard industry approach.
But they thought, based on Cs admittance and balance of probabilities, that the damage to 
the external, and internal, of Mr Ws car was caused by an error made while the car was 
stored with C. And they noted C were acting as an agent of AIC. So, they thought AIC were 
responsible for this. So, they thought AIC should cover the costs required to repair the 
external scratches, and the ECU issue, or that AIC should arrange these repairs themselves. 
Finally, they thought AIC should cover the costs of the reports Mr W obtained to support his 
position, plus 8% simple interest from the date he paid for them to the date of refund.
Mr W accepted this recommendation. But AIC didnt, as they didnt think it was reasonable 
for them to be expected to pay a significant amount to repair an ECU on a car already 
deemed uneconomical to repair. So, they offered to take the car back, refund Mr W the 
retention fee he paid, and increase their offer of compensation.
Mr W and AIC then entered into a mediation process, submitting differing ways they felt the 
complaint could be resolved. But ultimately, Mr W and AIC couldnt agree. And our 
investigator maintained their recommendation that, to place Mr W back in the position he 
wouldve been in had AIC acted fairly, the ECU should be repaired by AIC, or the costs of 
this repair covered by them instead. AIC continued to disagree and so, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I note that Mr W initially accepted our investigators outcome. And AIC dispute the 
recommendation, rather than our investigations findings on the merits of the complaint. So, I 
think its reasonable for me to assume that the actual merits of Mr Ws complaint are no 
longer in dispute.
But, for completeness, I want to reassure Mr W and AIC I reviewed all the evidence available 
to me. And having done so, Im satisfied the valuation placed on Mr Ws car by AIC was a 
fair one, calculated in line with the approach Id expect.
I also agree that there have been elements of poor service during the claim process, which 
included confusion caused to Mr W and the delay in his car being returned to him, as well as 
communication around this. But Im satisfied the compensation already put forward to 
address this by AIC is a fair offer and so, Im in agreement with our investigator that AIC 
dont need to pay any additional amount regarding this. But I would expect them to ensure 
any outstanding payments relating to this offer is paid.
From what Ive seen, I think the main issue that has been disputed centres around the 
condition of Mr Ws car when it was returned to him. Again, I note both Mr W and AIC 
seemed to accept that AIC were ultimately responsible for the damage, both externally and 
internally. C have already accepted the scratches caused to the body of Mr Ws car were 
their fault and so, I wont discuss this aspect any further. But I note the water damage found 
inside Mr Ws car has been more contentious as so, I do think it would be useful for me to 
provide my own findings regarding this.
Ive seen videos and photos of Mr Ws car, before it was taken by C. And I think these show 
Mr Ws car to be in a good condition, with no identifiable external or internal damage. And I 
think this is supported by Cs own inspection report, dated 14 February 2023, which listed 
the condition as fair and crucially answers No to the marker Flood damage.
So, Im satisfied that on this date, almost two weeks after Mr Ws car had been collected, 
there was no flood damage present in Mr Ws car. But Ive seen a video showing the 
condition of Mr Ws car when it was returned on 2 April. And this shows that in the footwell of 
his car, there was significant moisture present, as well as visible signs of mould that 
suggests the damp had been there for some time. And Ive seen in the reports obtained by 
Mr W since, which confirm the electrics around this area have been compromised, resulting 
in a repair or replacement of his cars ECU to be needed.
So, based on the above, I think that, based on the balance of probabilities, the water ingress 
into Mr Ws car occurred between 14 February and 2 April. And this is when the car was in 
the care of C, who were acting on behalf of AIC. So, I think AIC ultimately remained responsible for any errors or mistakes made by C during this time.
And based on the reports provided by Mr W, obtained from independent experts, Im 
satisfied the seals to Mr Ws car remained intact and were in good condition. So, based on 
this and the balance of probability, I think water ingress most likely occurred through an error 
made by C, who openly admitted the car was stored outside while it was in their care. So, I 
do think AIC were ultimately responsible for the water ingress and so, Ive then thought 
about what I think they should do to put the damage this ingress caused right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what AIC should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr W back in the position he wouldve been in, had AIC acted fairly in the 
first place.
In this situation, had AIC acted fairly, then I think Mr Ws car wouldve been stored and 
transported by AIC in a way that ensured it was returned to him in the condition C received 
it, before they completed their inspection. And had they done so, I dont think it wouldve 
been returned with the scratches to the bodywork, or the water damage to the inside, 
including the damage to the ECU caused by this ingress. And Im satisfied this is what Mr W 
expected when he chose to retain the car, which he was entitled to do.
So, to place Mr W back in this position, I think AIC should ensure the scratches to Mr Ws 
car, and the damage to its ECU, is repaired, to place him back in the position he shouldve 
been in. And this is irrespective of it being deemed uneconomical to repair. I must stress this 
direction is only for the scratches and the repair to the ECU, as I think Mr W took the car 
back understanding he would need to burden the cost of the repair work needed to the 
damage caused by the actual incident he originally claimed for. AIC can action this direction 
by agreeing to repair the car themselves, or they can pay Mr W a cash settlement that allows 
him to ensure this work is completed himself.
And had AIC acted fairly, I dont think Mr W wouldve needed to approach independent 
experts to obtain reports that supported his position. So, I think AIC need to reimburse Mr W 
for the amount he paid for these reports, plus 8% simple yearly interest from the date of 
payment to the date of refund.
And finally, while I note the compensation AIC have already offered is a fair offer to address 
the service issues he experienced, Id expect AIC to ensure any outstanding payments left to 
complete the full compensatory amount are made as soon as reasonably possible.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Arrange for the repair of the scratches and ECU, or pay Mr W a cash settlement that 
allows him to ensure this work is completed himself;
Refund Mr W the amount hes paid for the independent reports, plus 8% simple 
yearly interest from the date he paid them to the date of refund; and
Ensure the total compensatory amount offered to Mr W in their final response letters 
are paid, if it has not been already.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman