DRN-1733679
 
The complaint
 Mr H complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
lent to him. 
What happened
Sunny provided Mr H with 7 loans over an 11 month period  he took out the first loan in 
November 2016 and the last loan in October 2017. All the loans were due to run for around 
6 months and they ranged in amount between £100 and £350. 
Heres a table setting out details of the loans.
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
Amount
1 17/11/2016 28/04/2017 6 200
 
2 
20/01/2017 
30/06/2017 
6 
100
 
3 
25/03/2017 
28/04/2017 
6 
250
 
4 
21/04/2017 
31/10/2017 
6 
200
 
5 
27/05/2017 
30/11/2017 
6 
350
 
6 
25/08/2017 
28/02/2018 
6 
150
 
7 
16/10/2017 
29/03/2018 
6 
200
 Mr H mainly said Sunny didnt carry out all the checks it shouldve done before lending to 
him  and if it had done, it wouldve realised it shouldnt have lent to him. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint in part. He felt he hadnt seen enough to say that 
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr H loans 1 - 3  but that Sunny shouldve realised Mr H was 
already having money problems when asked for loan 4. And our adjudicator felt that by loan 
5, Mr Hs overall pattern of borrowing suggested that hed become persistently reliant on 
short-term loans. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have given Mr H loan 4 or any of 
the loans that followed  and he set out what Sunny should do to put things right for Mr H  
including directions about making some specific amendments to Mr Hs credit file.
Sunny disagreed. It mainly said that when Mr H requested his fourth loan, he had three 
outstanding Sunny loans which was in line with its policy and it didn't agree that a customer 
taking out three loans in a short space of time was a good enough reason to uphold a 
complaint.
Sunny also said that it was too early to be able to say that Mr H had become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans when he took out loan 5 after just 6 months borrowing. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Sunny was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Looking at the first three loans, given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Hs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to rely on what Mr H said about his financial circumstances. Sunny 
had no reason at that stage to check that what Mr H was saying was giving Sunny the whole 
picture. I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr H for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first three loans. 
So I dont plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 1, 2 or 3.
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 4. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Hs borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time he asked for loan 4, Mr H already had three other outstanding 
short term loans with Sunny  and now he was asking for further borrowing. This suggests to 
me that Mr H was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and his financial 
difficulties were likely ongoing.  
So although the loan mightve appeared affordable, and Sunnys lending policy allowed 
customers to apply for another loan in these circumstances, I think that Sunny shouldve 
realised that Mr Hs borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. 
Although it was his fourth loan, he was asking to borrow the same amount that hed started 
off with when he took loan 1. And since then hed taken out further loans that significantly 
added to his overall indebtedness. So despite what hed told Sunny about his finances, I 
think this showed that Mr H was having serious problems managing his money. So Sunny 
shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 4, and any further lending, wasnt likely to 
be sustainably affordable for Mr H. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr H to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. 
I think Sunny is right to say that when Mr H took out loan 5 it was too early to be able to 
safely say that hed shown hed become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
I think this point was reached by loan 7 in October 2017. He took out this loan when he was 
still paying loans 4, 5 and 6  and by now hed been borrowing from Sunny for almost a year.I think Sunny shouldve realised that there wasnt any indication that Mr Hs finances had 
moved on from whatever situation had required his previous loans. It was unlikely he was 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in income  rather, it looked like he had an ongoing 
need for the money and he wasnt making any inroads into the amount he owed the lender. 
And by then Mr H had paid a considerable amount of interest to Sunny to effectively service 
that debt over an extended period.
In these circumstances, I think there was a significant risk that Mr H wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 7. So I dont think Sunny  shouldve given 
loan 7 to Mr H.
I think that Mr H lost out when Sunny provided loan 7 as this had the effect of unfairly 
prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-
term use over an extended period of time. And by now the number of loans was likely to 
have negative implications on Mr Hs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im planning on upholding the complaint about loans 4 through to 7 and telling Sunny it 
should take the following steps to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H told us hes happy with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Sunny hasnt sent me any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 - 7, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date he originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr H the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Sunny has recorded on Mr Hs credit file for loans 
4, 5 and 6.
E. The overall pattern of Mr Hs borrowing by loan 7 means any information recorded 
about this loan is adverse, so Sunny should remove this loan entirely from Mr Hs 
credit file. 
 
*HMRC requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. If Mr H asks Sunny for a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off, Sunny should provide this. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr H. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman