DRN-2945004
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold four with-profits guaranteed 
over 50s plans to her and shes now paid in more premiums than the value of the death 
benefit provided on each of the policies. 
What happened
Mrs E purchased four separate guaranteed over 50s plans between 1995 and 1998. The 
policies were purchased through another provider, and Aviva has since taken over the 
responsibility for them. I will therefore only make reference to Aviva in my decision.
Mrs E, represented by her son, complained to Aviva that the value of the premiums paid into 
the policies exceeded the death benefit payable. And, that Aviva should have told Mrs E 
when this happened. The representative pointed out Aviva hadnt sent statements for the 
policies and Mrs E couldnt see for herself when shed paid more in than the death benefit.
Aviva told Mrs E theyd provided her with a mailing pack for each policy, which included a 
letter, brochure, and key features leaflet. Aviva said Mrs E opted to proceed with the policies 
by completing an application form and choosing a monthly amount she wished to pay for 
each policy. Aviva didnt think theyd done anything wrong as they hadnt advised Mrs E to 
take out the policies.
Mrs Es representative didnt agree with Aviva and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Mrs E and thought that 
Aviva hadnt mis-lead Mrs E about the type of policies shed purchased.
Mrs Es representative asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint, so it was passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to offer my sincere apologies for the delay in Mrs E receiving a final decision on 
her complaint. However, although I appreciate Mrs E will be disappointed with my final 
decision, for very much the same reasons as the Investigator, Ive decided Aviva didnt do 
anything significantly wrong. I will now explain why.
Mrs Es representative has been able to provide some copy policy documentation showing 
the premiums and sums assured on the policies. Aviva have been able to provide copies of 
the applications forms Mrs E signed when taking out each policy. The application forms 
make reference to key features documents being enclosed and Mrs E signed to say shed 
read them. Aviva are unable to provide copies of the actual documents sent to Mrs E, but 
they have been able to provide copies of the key features they sent to customers at this 
time. I consider this is enough evidence for me to make a final decision.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs E met with a representative of Aviva at the time, so I 
consider it more likely Mrs E purchased the policies through a direct offer. In other words, 
Mrs E received marketing literature from Aviva and based on what the marketing literature 
told her, decided to buy the policies. Because its reasonable to conclude no advice was 
provided, I considered whether the marketing material provided at the time was misleading.  
Over 50s policies are a specific type of non-reviewable (where the premium cannot change)
whole of life policy, usually marketed for funeral costs where the insuring business does not
require proof of health  and therefore it cannot know from the outset anything about a
policyholders life expectancy.
General sums assured are offered based on three variables, age, gender, and the premium
selected. Its for that reason the key features set out that a person can pay more into the
policy than the guaranteed death benefit if he or she pays premiums for a longer term  in
Mrs Es case this is what happened.
The key features for the guaranteed over 50s plan explain the aims and the risks of the 
policy. Mrs E was buying the policies without advice, so I would expect the aims and risk to 
be prominent in the key features. The aim of the policy was to provide a fixed death benefit. 
Although there was a possibility of a cash-in value later in the policy, it seems more likely to 
me that Mrs E purchased the policies for protection rather than savings. One of the risks 
included said, If you live long enough the total premiums paid will eventually be greater than 
the amount payable on death. In my opinion the aims and the risks were prominent in the 
key features and they werent misleading.
Mrs Es representative is unhappy Aviva didnt tell Mrs E when the amount shed paid into 
the policy exceeded the death benefit. I appreciate the point made here, but Mrs E had life 
cover guaranteed for the whole of her life, which is what she applied for. If Mrs E had passed 
in the early years, after an initial qualifying period, Aviva would likely have paid out more 
than shed paid in. In this case, there was a cash-in value and it was explained prominently 
in the key features Aviva sent to Mrs E. It was for Mrs E to review the information about the 
policy to decide if she wanted to go ahead with each one or not. While Aviva could have told 
Mrs E when the amount shed paid in exceeded the death benefit, Ive seen nothing in the 
documents they were obliged to do this, or that they committed to it at the start of the policy.
Mrs Es representative has asked why there was a difference in the cash-in value for a policy 
Mrs E took and one her husband took at the same time with Aviva. This may be something 
the representative wishes to take up with Aviva, as its not part of the complaint Ive 
considered. However, if it helps provide some clarity, I can see the premiums are different, 
and age and gender considerations are also taken into account when life cover is being paid 
for. These factors are likely to be a reason for any difference in actual cash-in values.
The representative says Aviva failed in their duty of care to Mrs E. The Financial 
Ombudsman Services work often involves assessing complaints against the standards at 
the time of the event complained about. My final decision involved an assessment of what I 
believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Es individual case, considering 
what happened against the law, rules, codes, and good practice that applied at the time. Im 
satisfied Aviva didnt act unreasonably or unfairly in this case.
My final decision
Ive decided that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited havent acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
operating Mrs Es guaranteed over 50s policies
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman