DRN-4108162
The complaint
Miss E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In May 2020, Miss E was planning her wedding and saw recommendations for an event 
planning company online. She checked multiple websites for reviews of the company, 
contacted them to ask for a quote and then paid a deposit to book them. Shortly before the 
date of the wedding, Miss E contacted the company again to confirm the services they were 
providing and paid the remaining balance. But unfortunately, on the day of the wedding, the 
company didnt provide the agreed services.
Miss E contacted the company again after the wedding and they apologised for not providing 
the services. But when Miss E asked for a refund, the company stopped responding to her. 
Miss E then reported the payments she had made to Lloyds as a scam and asked it to 
refund the money she had lost.
Lloyds investigated but said it felt the wedding planning company was a genuine company 
who had fallen into difficulties and that this was a civil dispute between Miss E and the 
company, rather than a scam. So it didnt agree to refund the money she had lost. Lloyds did 
pay Miss E £40 as compensation for incorrect information it gave her when it first responded 
to her claim though. Miss E wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought it was most likely the 
company was genuine and hadnt set out with the intention to scam Miss E. So they didnt 
think Lloyds should be held responsible for the money Miss E had lost. Miss E disagreed 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam  as defined in the code.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Lloyds should refund the money Miss E lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the wedding planning company set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Miss E says she saw a number of recommendations for the company online and, at that 
time, the companys profile pages on several social media websites had significant numbers 
of followers and positive reviews. And I think its unlikely a scammer would have been able 
to arrange these kinds of recommendation, followers and reviews.
The company was also listed on the government register of companies for a number of 
years before Miss E made the payments and appears to have filed the necessary accounts 
paperwork for a number of years, which I wouldnt necessarily expect a scammer to have 
done and I think suggests the company was trying to operate as a legitimate business.
The information weve received from the bank the remaining balance was paid to also shows 
the activity on the account the money was paid to was in line with what Id expect from a 
legitimate business account.
Miss E has said that the company has been taken over by a new director and the name of 
the company had been changed before she paid the remaining balance. But while this might 
suggest the company wasnt operating as professionally or transparently as Miss E would 
have wanted, I dont think this necessarily means they intended to scam her.
I appreciate how Miss E feels about this case, and that she was left without services she had 
paid for at her wedding. But I must make a decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the company here 
was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that other factors 
ultimately meant it was unable to provide the services it had agreed to. I dont think the 
company set out with the intent to defraud Miss E, or that she has been the victim of a scam 
here.
So I dont think the payments Miss E made to the wedding planning company are covered 
under the CRM code, or that Lloyds should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Miss E has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the wedding planning 
company. But I can only look at Lloyds responsibilities and, for the reasons Ive explained 
above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for the money she lost.
Lloyds has paid Miss E £40 for the incorrect information it gave her when it initially 
responded to her claim. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman