DRN-1717110
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Ltd sent a text on his account to his 
sons mobile, which allowed his son to access his account. 
What happened
On 12 and 15 November 2019 Cabot sent a text to a mobile that it understood belonged to 
Mr M. But Mr M says it was his sons phone. As a result his son was able to access Mr Ms 
account and see he was in debt and how much. 
Mr M feels Cabot had no need to contact him on a mobile number as it already had his 
landline number. He thinks it only sent the texts to try and pressure him into making 
payments. And hes also unhappy with the security measures on his account which he feels 
were inadequate.
Cabot said it had obtained the mobile number from an authorised third party and, if the 
information was wrong, Mr M needed to contact the provider. It noted however that the 
information provided was consented data which meant Mr M had agreed at some point to it 
being shared and it had no reason to think it wasnt correct.  
In order to access the account, the caller had to click into a link and then answer questions 
requiring Mr Ms personal information. It felt this was sufficiently secure. And it said it had 
previously tried contacting Mr M by phone and letter and didnt think it was unreasonable to 
also try using a mobile. In the circumstances it didnt agree it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Cabot had obtained the mobile number from 
a legitimate source and couldn't reasonably have known it wasn't correct. And in order to 
access the account any caller needed to know Mr M's personal information so she 
didn't agree it wasnt secure. She felt Cabot had dealt with the matter fairly so she wouldnt 
be asking it to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  He said, in 
summary:
Cabot had no reason to use his mobile number as it already had his landline. He felt 
it only wanted to use his mobile to harass him and his family.
As a result of sending the text to the wrong number, his son had found out about his 
debt which he hadnt wanted him to do. He felt it could have gone to any of his family 
and friends and because the security was inadequate, theyd also have been able to 
access his account and find out about his finances. Hed spoken to the Information 
Commissioners Office who felt thered been a breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is missing, contradictory or inadequate I have looked at whats more 
likely to have happened in the circumstances of the case and made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities.
I should add that I can see Mr Ms raised a possible breach of the regulations relating to 
information security.  That's a complex area of law thats best resolved by either the 
Information Commissioners Office or by the courts. For that reason, I wont be making a 
decision on that specific point in this decision but looking at whether Cabot has acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr Ms raised a number of concerns about Cabot in his complaint so Ill deal with them in 
turn.
Incorrect mobile number
Ive seen Mr M says the mobile number used wasnt his but his sons and Cabot should have 
checked this before sending the texts. I can understand Mr Ms concern at what happened 
and why he feels so  upset. But Cabots provided information to show how the information 
was provided to it and that it was consented data which means Mr M had at some point 
provided the details and agreed to it being shared. If Mr M thinks the information isn't correct 
or that it shouldn't have been shared, then he would need to contact the provider of this 
information but at the time Cabot received the information, I think it was entitled to believe it 
was correct and to rely on it.
sending texts
Mr Ms set out very clearly why he thinks Cabot was wrong to try and contact him on his 
mobile. I dont agree. Cabot's required to keep in contact with its customers and I think its 
reasonable for it to do this using a range of methods. It had previously sent letters and used 
the landline but that doesn't mean it shouldn't also make use of a mobile number if available. 
I should also add that in this case Cabot was contacting Mr M to let him know  he was 
making payments to an old account and to ask how he wanted to deal with them so I cant 
agree this was inappropriate.
account security  
Ive seen the texts that were sent by Cabot, which read as follows:
Hi Cabot here, we have sent you a personal letter you might be interested in. Please click 
secure link to view A link was included in the text which went through to another screen 
that needed to be completed with Mr Ms personal information before the account could be 
accessed.
I appreciate Mr M doesnt think this was sufficiently secure but it required the recipient of the 
text to know not only who's account was being referred to but also to have their personal 
information to hand.  In this case the text went to Mr Ms son, who did have this information 
but that was due to the very particular circumstances of this case and I cant agree that, 
overall, the security on the account wasnt reasonable. And although Mr M's son did access 
the account I've seen from Mr M's last submission that he did so with Mr M's consent and 
Cabot's not responsible for that.I realise this isn't the answer Mr M  was hoping for. However, for the reasons given, I dont 
think Cabot has acted unfairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr M's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September2020.
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman