DRN-2928604
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr B acquired a used car. He financed the agreement through a 
conditional sale agreement with BPF. Mr B was required to make 60 monthly repayments 
and a final payment of £387.66 to own the car at the end of the agreement. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £6,218.60.
Mr B says that BPF didnt complete adequate affordability checks. Her says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. BPF didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included credit and income checks through the credit reference 
agencies. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think BPF had carried 
out proportionate checks so she considered what they would have found if they had. She 
thought there was evidence that Mr B had secured work and that his income from that work 
would have made the agreement affordable for him. So, she didnt think it would be fair to 
suggest BPF took any action.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said hed been abroad for several months before 
the agreement was signed and that as he wasnt working at the time the business were 
wrong to suggest he could afford the deal.
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
BPF didnt verify Mr Bs income before approving the finance. Given the overall size of the 
borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it would have 
been proportionate for BPF to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
Ive seen that Mr B claimed he had an income of over £23,000 and BPF have information to 
suggest he told them that income was from a company Ill call O. Its clear that in the 
months preceding the finance application Mr B was abroad and wasnt receiving any regular 
income. But Mr Bs bank statements show that from September 2019 he was receiving a 
regular income and that income was coming from O. 
Mr B has explained that he had obtained a provisional contract with O and I think had BPF 
known about that at the time of application it would have been fair for them to rely on that 
information. Had they done so, taking Mr Bs income into account and the expenditure Ive 
seen in Mr Bs statements, I think they would have concluded, as I have, that the agreement 
was affordable for Mr B.
Mr Bs earnings in the four months from September 2016 to December 2016 averaged 
about £1,250 after any tax that may have been deducted. Statements show expenditure of 
around £33 and when considering other expenses such as food and transport it seems if 
BPF had completed proportionate checks, it would still have likely concluded the agreement 
was affordable for Mr B. For this reason, I dont think BPF acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman