DRN-3883088
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) allowed a transaction to debit his 
account taking him overdrawn.  
What happened
In December 2019 a payment of £33.99 debited Mr Rs Starling account. This resulted in an 
overdrawn balance. On 25 January 2020, Starling sent an online message to Mr R to make 
him aware his account was overdrawn. 
Mr R replied the same day advising he hadnt given his consent for any payment to be taken 
and didnt have an overdraft facility. He also asked for the payment to be recalled. On 27 
January 2020, Starling replied and gave details of where the payment had gone and advised 
Mr R that he should contact that merchant to dispute it. 
Mr R says he called Starling also on 27 January 2020, to explain he had already tried to 
contact the merchant who were being difficult and had advised him to speak to his bank and 
raise a chargeback. Mr R says the advisor didnt help and just told him to contact the 
merchant again.
On 4 February 2020, Starling again sent notification to Mr R that the account remained 
overdrawn. The following day Mr R replied asking for the account to be closed immediately. 
Starling advised this wouldnt be possible while the account had a negative balance. Mr R 
again reiterated that he never gave consent for the payment to be taken or for Starling to 
allow the account to go overdrawn without an overdraft facility. 
On 6 February 2020, Starling issued a further response confirming Mr R had previously 
made it aware he didnt consent to the payment. Starling said it had already advised in its 
previous reply that Mr R needed to contact the merchant and repeated this message. 
Starling confirmed it would review Mr Rs request to close his account when the overdraft 
balance had been repaid. 
Starling again sent an overdrawn balance notification on 24 February 2020 and followed this 
up with a call to Mr R on 13 March 2020. Mr R didnt pass security and this call was ended. It 
appears that following this the only communication between Starling and Mr R was it 
sending monthly statements showing the overdrawn balance remained, until Mr R contacted 
Starling in August 2022. 
Starling advised in reply to Mr Rs August 2022 communication that he needed to resolve the 
issue with the merchant, like he had been advised in 2020. Mr R then said he had told 
Starling to action a chargeback re the payment and it had refused to do so. He therefore 
wouldnt be funding the account. Following this a complaint was logged on 15 September 
2022.
Starling issued its final response on 20 September 2022 and maintained that Mr R needed to 
contact the merchant. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback as the timeframe to do so had 
passed. Lastly, Starling said to close his account it would need to be at a zero balance. Mr R 
disagreed with this and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the matter and concluded that Starling hadnt acted 
unfairly. She said there wasnt any record of a call being made by Mr R on 27 January 2020 
where he requested a chargeback. In addition, the online messages showed that Mr R had 
been told to contact the merchant which the investigator said was correct. The investigator 
explained that when Mr R did contact Starling about a chargeback in 2022 it was outside of 
120 days permitted for a chargeback to be raised and given the evidence, a chargeback 
would have likely been defended by the merchant. 
Mr R continued to disagree and provided evidence that he said showed contact with Starling 
had occurred on 27 January 2020. As Mr R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It appears Mr Rs first communication with Starling regarding the disputed transaction and 
subsequent overdrawn balance was on 25 January 2020. He asked for the payment to be 
credited back to his account, as he said he hadnt consented to the merchant taking it.  
Starling replied on 27 January 2020 and advised Mr R to contact the merchant directly. 
Taking the circumstances and previous payment history to the same merchant into account, 
I dont believe it was unreasonable for Starling to advise Mr R to contact the merchant first to 
try and resolve the dispute as an initial starting point. 
Mr R has said that he called Starling on 27 January 2020, to explain he had spoken to the 
merchant and been told by it to raise a chargeback. Starling has advised that its 
communication with Mr R on 27 January 2020 was via its online messaging system and not 
on a telephone call. 
Mr R has said that Starlings follow up online message from 6 February 2020 shows he did 
contact Starling on 27 January 2020. The 6 February 2020 online message said: 
I can see that you advised us on January 27th that you did not consent to the payment
I appreciate this does appear to indicate that contact was made from Mr R on 27 January 
2020. However, the advisor doesnt mention a call taking place, Starling has advised there 
wasnt a call and Mr R hasnt been able to provide evidence that he called Starling that day. 
All the other communication from Mr R around this time was also via the online messaging 
system. 
I think its more likely that the advisor (who was the same person that sent both responses) 
was referring to the previous communication from Mr R on 25 January 2020 and their 
subsequent reply of 27 January 2020. Mr R did have further communications with Starling 
and didnt mention a chargeback, or that he had already contacted the merchant. Based on 
the evidence available, Im not persuaded Mr R did call Starling on 27 January 2020. 
On balance I dont believe Mr R ever told Starling that he had already contacted the 
merchant. Had he have done this, then I dont see why Startling wouldnt have followed its 
process of gathering more information on the dispute to see how it could help. As Starling 
wasnt told by Mr R he had already contacted the merchant, I wouldnt have expected 
Starling to offer any other further advice on what actions it couldve taken to assist Mr R at 
that time. 
Mr R also never received any kind of confirmation a chargeback had been raised. Starling 
only ever told him to contact the merchant and to clear the overdrawn balance. Im therefore unsure why Mr R waited almost two years before contacting Starling again regarding the 
situation when he hadnt been led to believe the dispute was being taken forward. 
When Mr R did contact Starling again in 2022, the timeframe for it to assist Mr R via the 
chargeback scheme had passed. The MasterCard chargeback rules explain that the 
timeframe to raise a cardholder dispute of this nature must be within 120 calendar days of 
the transaction settlement date. The transaction date was 30 December 2019, so Mr Rs 
contact in 2022 was significantly more than 120 days later. So, Starling wasnt able to raise a 
chargeback at that point. 
Mr Rs account remains in a negative balance. And given my conclusions above, I wont be 
telling Starling to clear this balance. I therefore leave it up to Mr R to decide what action he 
wants to take regarding the outstanding debt moving forward.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman