DRN-3805577
The complaint
Ms K and Mr T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Aviva 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle. It had a high 
specification including active (or adaptive) cruise control ("ACC"). Mr T bought the car new in 
late 2018.
For the year from late January 2021, Ms K had the car insured on a policy with Aviva. She 
was the policyholder. Mr T was one of two named drivers. The policy covered the car, 
subject to an excess of £350.00. The policy also covered personal belongings in the car up 
to £150.00 and child seats.
In late June 2021, Ms K and Mr T reported that someone had stolen the car (and personal 
belongings and child seats in the car).
On about 21 July 2021, Aviva said that the pre- theft value of the car had been £24,887.00.
On about 23 September 2021, Ms K and Mr T complained to Aviva that it was under-valuing 
the car and its contents. They provided receipts for the child seats.
On about 19 October 2021, Aviva said it would increase the valuation to £31,530.00. On 
about 20 October 2021, Aviva pad £150.00 for personal belongings. On about 22 October 
2021, Ms K and Mr T complained about the increased valuation.
By a final response dated early December 2021, Aviva declined to increase the valuation. 
But it apologised and said it was sending £300.00 compensation for delay. On about 10 
December 2021, Aviva paid for the child seats.
In March 2022, Ms K and Mr T took delivery of a new car.
Ms K and Mr T brought their complaint to us in late May 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Avivas offer of £31,530.00 fairly reflected the market value of the vehicle. So Aviva had 
acted reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy. The investigator said that there was 
evidence of delays caused by Aviva in settling the claim, but the offer of £300.00 
compensation was in line with what he would have recommended.
Ms K and Mr T disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
The used car industry guide values dont factor in ACC appropriately or at all.
ACC is critical to Mr T because of his disability. 
ACC cannot be retrofitted.
At the time, they could not replace the vehicle with one that had ACC, other than by 
purchasing a new vehicle. so replacement cost is a fair, just and reasonable basis to 
use as the market value. 
They have very young children, two of whom are disabled blue badge holders.
At the time, second-hand values were highly raised due to global supply chain 
issues. This trend worsened substantially as they waited for Aviva, and the purchase 
cost of a new replacement vehicle increased by £7,000.00 as a result of this delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law, the policy terms, regulations and good practice. 
The policy terms included the following:
the most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle
The policy terms included the following definition: 
market value: The cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make, model, 
specification and condition.
That doesnt mention the age or milage of the vehicle.
I consider it fair that the market value is the market value immediately before the loss. 
We expect insurance companies to assess market value by reference to the retail figures in 
the trade guides. We usually find that the trade guides are good evidence of market value. 
The different trade guides usually provide different values for the same vehicle. So there is a 
range of values. Unless one of the guides is significantly out of line with the others, we would 
usually say that any of the values in the range is a reasonable value.
We dont find Parkers reliable if months have passed between the loss and the valuation.
We dont usually find that advertisements are reliable evidence as they contain asking prices 
that may be negotiated downwards.
I take Mr Ts point that some of the trade guides dont note the specification of his car 
(including ACC). However, the investigator obtained two valuations for a car like Mr Ts at 
the time of its loss that included consideration of the specification of his car.
One of those valuations is a Glasss guide (market value assessor) valuation that lists each 
item of specification. It provides a valuation as follows:
Glasss £24.440.00Mr T has seen that valuation and he is unhappy that it includes some items that had cost him 
extra when new at a depreciated value of £0. But that is what Glasss say, and I accept it.
The other valuation is a bespoke CAP valuation in response to an enquiry from our 
investigator. CAP provided a figure (to include the cars additional specification and desirable 
options) as follows:
CAP £29,750.00
Avivas initial valuation of £24,887.00 was more than the subsequent Glasss valuation. And 
Avivas final valuation of £31,530.00 was more than the subsequent bespoke CAP valuation. 
So I dont find that either of Avivas valuations treated Mr T and Ms K unfairly.
I dont consider that Ms K and Mr T ever had a reasonable expectation that Aviva should 
source a replacement car for them. 
I accept that demand and prices for used cars was rising. I accept that Mr T needed a 
replacement vehicle with ACC. I also accept his evidence that he couldnt find a like-for- like 
replacement vehicle. 
Mr T and Ms K have said that between late July and late September 2021, they had to deal 
with a series of home and family issues as well as their jobs. So -notwithstanding the lack of 
proactivity from Aviva  I dont hold Aviva responsible for lack of progress towards replacing 
the car in that period of two months. Mr Ts later searches dont persuade me that  at the 
time of the loss  the only possible replacement was a new car.
In any event, the stolen car was a 2018 car. Whilst it was not possible for Mr T to find a like-
for-like replacement, I dont accept that it is fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay for the 
new car that was delivered in March 2022.
Im satisfied that  by increasing its valuation to £31,530.00 and paying £300.00 
compensation  Aviva has made up for the extra distress and inconvenience its 
shortcomings caused Mr T and Ms K at an already difficult time for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman