DRN-2279747
The complaint
Miss B complained to Lloyds Bank PLC about several issues relating to the current account 
she has with it. Miss B also complained that she didnt receive a response when she wrote to 
Lloyds Chief Executive. 
What happened
Miss B has a current account with Lloyds. She complained to Lloyds on 19 December 2019 
about difficulties she had with how the cash machine was displaying her balance. She said 
she is having to go into the bank or to call in order to get a correct balance and this is 
making her life difficult. 
Lloyds responded to Miss Bs complaint on 10 January 2020. It listed her concerns as: 
Being unable to withdraw funds from a cash machine on 19 December 2019, as her 
balance was less than she expected it to be.
The member of staff refused to put her through to another manager. 
Lloyds explained it made changes to the way balances are displayed on cash machines 
following an industry wide review by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). It said it 
understands Miss B thought she had more money than she had, but it didnt make an error, 
as all payments debited to her account were genuine payments made by her. It said the 
member of staff Miss B spoke to is authorised to provide final decisions on behalf of the 
bank and so it would not have been the correct process for Miss B to be put through to 
another manager. 
Miss B contacted Lloyds on 15 January 2020 and said, in addition to what happened on 19 
December 2019, she was also given an incorrect account balance by a telephone banking 
advisor on 17 December 2019. 
Lloyds responded to Miss Bs complaint on 1 February 2020. It said it reviewed its original 
decision, in light of the further information provided by Miss B in relation to the phone call 
she had with the banking advisor and can see Miss B was given conflicting information about 
her account balance. It apologised for this and offered £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience Miss B experienced and £12 to cover the cost of telephone calls. 
Miss B wrote to Lloyds Chief Executive on 17 January 2020. She said she finds it really 
difficult to make a complaint and to be expected to remain on the phone for a lengthy period 
of time. She said she thinks Lloyds should take consumers details and phone them back. 
Miss B also said there is sometimes conflicting information provided by phone and in branch. 
Miss B again complained to Lloyds on 8 February 2020 about how its cash machine was 
displaying her balance. 
Lloyds responded to Miss Bs letter of 17 January 2020 on 12 February 2020. It said its 
sorry Miss B remains unhappy, but its response remains the same as detailed in a letter it 
sent dated 3 December 2019. The letter of 3 December 2019 is not relevant to these 
complaints, so I wont outline the details here. 
Lloyds responded to Miss Bs complaint from 8 February 2020 on 26 February 2020 and 
didnt uphold it. It summarised her complaint points as: 
The way the cash machine shows her balance
When Miss B got to branch it was closed
The cash machine didnt beep to remind her to take her card
Lloyds repeated what it said in the earlier response letter, namely that the way cash 
machines display balances has changed. It sympathised with Miss B that she had a wasted 
trip into branch because of information she found on google, but it said its branch opening 
times are shown on its own website. Lloyds also sympathised about the added upset Miss B 
experienced when the cash machine swallowed her card, but said this was not a bank error. 
Miss B was unhappy with these responses and so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. He said he appreciates that Miss B doesnt 
use online or mobile banking and so relies on cash machines to help her keep track of her 
balance and spending. But he said the changes made were part of an industry wide review 
by the FCA about how cash machines should display balances and so Lloyds havent made 
a mistake. Our investigator said the £100 already awarded for the conflicting account 
balance information provided by phone is enough. 
Miss B responded to the view and said that in April or May 2020, Lloyds again changed how 
it displays balances on cash machines and she is happy with that change, although she 
thinks it could have been made sooner. Miss B said she hasnt had a response to the letter 
she sent to Lloyds Chief Executive and believes Lloyds has failed to follow its own protocol.  
Our investigator issued a second view and his findings, above, were unchanged. He also 
said complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so we are unable to look at how Lloyds 
responded to the letter to its Chief Executive. 
Lloyds responded and said the content of the letter Miss B sent to it on 17 January 2020 was 
asking it to look at matters already referred to this service. Lloyds said it responded to the 
letter some time ago and cant be held responsible if Miss B didnt receive it. It also said how 
it deals with letters sent to its management is not an issue this service can look at, as its 
part of the complaints handling process. 
Miss B remained unhappy and so this complaint has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss B wants this service to consider the merits of her complaint about how Lloyds 
dealt with the letter she sent to its Chief Executive and whether it followed protocols about 
responding to letters of complaint. But my decision in relation to that particular complaint 
point is not about the merits - its about whether our service can consider the complaint. And, 
having reviewed everything provided by Miss B and Lloyds, Im satisfied this complaint point 
is not one we can look at. Our service can consider a wide variety of complaints about financial services, but we arent 
free to look into every complaint thats referred to us. The rules that set out what complaints 
we can consider are the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA handbook.
One of these rules (DISP 2.3) outlines the regulated activities and other financial services 
that fall under our jurisdiction  meaning we can look at complaints about these activities and 
services. But complaint handling is not a regulated activity or financial service and so we are 
unable to look into complaints of this type. Miss Bs complaint about the letter sent on 17 
January 2020 is about how Lloyds dealt with it and what she sees as its failure to follow 
protocols for responding to complaints. And so Im satisfied this falls under complaint 
handling and cannot be looked at by this service. 
Ive also seen the contents of the letter Miss B sent on 17 January 2020 and I can see that 
the complaint points raised in the letter have already been dealt with by this service under a 
different reference number and that complaint is now closed. 
Miss B also raised a complaint about a manager she dealt with, when reporting a complaint, 
who refused to pass her call to a different manager. But, again, this relates to complaint 
handling and so is not something we can look at. 
Looking now at the other complaint points raised by Miss B, my understanding is that the 
complaint raised by Miss B on 19 December 2019 was about Lloyds cash machines 
displaying a balance that didnt include pending transactions. And this led Miss B to think 
she had more money in her account than was actually there. On that particular occasion, 
Miss B said she tried to withdraw some money, as she thought she had a higher balance, 
but couldnt. Miss B said this issue was resolved in around April or May 2020 and her 
account balance is now being displayed in a more customer friendly way. But she said it 
wasnt resolved soon enough. 
From what I can see, Miss B hasnt suffered any sort of financial detriment or loss as a result 
of how her balance was displayed. On the occasion complained about, she tried to take 
money out of her bank account because she thought she had a higher balance but wasnt 
able to do that. So the issue here is potential inconvenience and whether Lloyds is 
responsible for this inconvenience. 
I can see that Lloyds agreed it gave conflicting information on 17 December 2019 when Miss 
B phoned it to get her account balance and was given an incorrect balance. And its offered 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience and £12 to cover the cost of phone calls. Im 
satisfied with the amount of compensation already offered by Lloyds for that error. 
For me to look at further compensation, I would have to be satisfied that Lloyds made an 
error when it changed how it presented account balances on cash machines. And Im 
satisfied it didnt. The change happened because of a review carried out by the FCA in 
relation to how account balances were being presented to customers with overdrafts. 
Specifically, in the past customers were having their overdraft limit included in an available 
balance and the FCA asked for industry wide changes to be made to this. Lloyds said the 
changes it made from mid-November 2019 onwards were that balance after pending has 
replaced available balance.  
I realise that Miss B doesnt have an overdraft facility and so doesnt feel these changes 
should have affected her. But if Lloyds chooses to change how it presents all account 
balances on cash machines, then I think its reasonable for it to do this. I also realise that 
Miss B says the bank have since changed how they present balances and she finds this 
more user friendly. But as long as the information presented to her back in December 2019 about her balance wasnt incorrect  and Im satisfied it wasnt  then Lloyds are free to 
change how it presents account information, to ensure its in line with FCA guidelines. 
So Im satisfied Lloyds does not need to take any further action in relation to Miss Bs 
complaint about how it was displaying account information on cash machines when it first 
made the changes required by the FCA. 
Miss B has also complained about a cash machine not beeping to let her know she hadnt 
picked up her card  which was then swallowed by the machine  and about a branch she 
visited being closed, when an internet search engine said it would be open. Both of these 
issues sound very inconvenient. But I dont think it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible 
for Miss B forgetting to remove her card from the cash machine, as the card is Miss Bs 
responsibility. And Im also satisfied that Lloyds is responsible for the opening times it lists 
on its website, but it not responsible for opening times listed elsewhere on the internet. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Bs complaints and Lloyds do not need to take 
any further action in relation to the complaint points this service has been able to look into.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman