DRN-2595569
The complaint
Mr D complains that Itc Compliance Limited misled him into thinking he could obtain a new 
car on better finance terms than he was already paying. ITC was acting through a car 
dealership, Y, which described itself as ITCs representative.   
What happened
Mr D had an existing hire purchase arrangement with ITC, which had started in early 2018. 
In or about September 2019 Y contacted him to say that it could provide him with a new 
model of the same car for a little less, if he part-exchanged his new car. Mr D paid a deposit 
of £500 and arranged to visit the dealership to finalise matters. 
Mr D noticed however that the pre-contract information indicated that, although the monthly 
payment for the new car would only be a few pounds more, the interest rate would be higher 
and the balloon payment at the end of the hire period would be some £4,000 more than 
under his existing deal. He decided not to proceed with the deal, and Y returned his deposit. 
Mr D complained that ITC had misled him and had wasted his time. He was unhappy with 
ITCs response to his complaint and referred the matter to this service. 
ITC argued that, since it had not in fact provided Mr D with any finance, this service had no 
power to consider his complaint. One of our ombudsmen considered that issue but 
concluded that ITC was mistaken in that view. In summary, Mr D was a potential customer of 
ITC (and therefore eligible to bring a complaint to us). His complaint arose from the offer of 
an agreement which, if entered into, would have been a regulated credit agreement; that 
was within the definition of credit broking, an activity which the ombudsman service can 
consider. 
The case was then passed to an investigator to consider its merits. The investigator 
concluded that, whilst ITC had not been in breach of any regulations, Mr D had not been 
given sufficient information at the outset. This had caused him inconvenience for which he 
should be compensated. The investigator recommended a payment of £25, which ITC 
agreed to offer.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators recommendation, however. He thought the 
recommended payment of £25 was too low. He said that his wife had bought new glasses to 
match the colour of the new car, at a cost of some £600. He would accept the new car in 
exchange for his existing car in settlement. 
The case was therefore passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised the previous ombudsmans decision on our power to consider Mr Ds 
complaint. I note that ITC does not agree with it, but I think the ombudsman was correct to 
conclude that discussions about a prospective credit agreement were sufficiently far 
advanced that ITC had offered one. 
ITC also submitted in the course of our consideration of the complaint that it should be 
dismissed as being vexatious. Our rules do give me a discretion to dismiss a complaint 
without considering its merits if I consider it to be frivolous or vexatious  DISP3.3.4A(1) of 
the FCA Handbook. 
Under DISP3.3.4A(5) I can also dismiss a complaint if I consider that dealing with such a 
type of complaint would seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
I dont believe I should exercise my discretion to dismiss Mr Ds complaint on the grounds 
that it is vexatious. This is not a case where, for example, a customer has engineered a 
situation in order to generate a complaint or has pursued it in an unreasonable manner. 
I do note however that ITC has refunded the £500 deposit that Mr D paid. On 23 September 
2019 Y, acting on behalf of ITC, drew up a short settlement agreement. That agreement 
recorded that Mr D agreed that  the settlement figure shall be paid in satisfaction of all 
claims that he has or may have against [ITC] and [Y] in connection with the subject matter of 
this dispute  
I believe its open to me to take the view that I should dismiss the complaint because Mr D 
had already reached a settlement with ITC before he referred the matter to this service  and 
dealing with complaints that have already been resolved impairs our effective operation. In 
this case, however, I do not believe that is appropriate  although it is a matter I will take into 
account in considering the merits of the case.
I dont believe that Mr D has lost out financially here. His deposit was refunded, and he did 
not go ahead with the deal. He has said that his wife replaced her glasses in expectation of 
getting a new car, but I dont believe that was a loss he suffered or that it was a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of what happened. It would not therefore be fair to require ITC to 
pay any compensation for this, or for Mr Ds wifes disappointment.
I can make an award of compensation to reflect distress or inconvenience suffered. Whilst I 
accept that Mr D has been put to some inconvenience here, I do not believe that it was 
sufficient that it warrants an award of compensation. 
In addition, and as I have noted above, Mr D accepted an offer of settlement which was 
expressly made in satisfaction of all claims he might have in connection with the subject 
matter of this dispute. In my view it would not therefore be fair to require ITC to make a 
further payment or  as he has suggested  to allow Mr D to swap his current car for a new 
one. 
In the circumstances, I simply leave it to Mr D to decide whether or not he wishes to accept 
ITCs offer of £25  assuming it remains open for acceptance.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Itc Compliance Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ds complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman