DRN-4345894
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost to an investment 
scam. 
Mrs W is represented by a third party but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all submissions as 
having come from her alone.
 
What happened
Mrs W came across an online advert for an investment opportunity with a company Ill call 
G that appeared to be endorsed by a well-known celebrity. She filled out an online enquiry 
form and was soon contacted by a representative of G. Around August 2022, after seeing 
positive reviews about G, Mrs W decided to invest. 
Mrs W used an existing cryptocurrency exchange account with a company Ill call C to send 
faster payments to from her Santander account. From there, she bought crypto and sent it 
onto the scammer. Mrs W was encouraged to deposit more money to receive higher profits. 
Mrs W transferred a total of £17,591 over six payments between 5 August 2022 and 24 
August 2022. Mrs W received profits of £400 back to her account with C. Around 19 August 
2022, Mrs W tried to withdraw her funds from the investment with G and close the account. 
Gs representative subsequently stopped communicating with her. Mrs W contacted 
Santander to tell it about what happened on 28 May 2023. 
Ive included a table of the disputed transactions below:
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
payment PayeeAmount 
(£)Running 
total
1 5 August 2022 Faster PaymentMrs Ws C 
account £1,787 £1,787
2 9 August 2022 Faster PaymentMrs Ws C 
account £2,500 £4,287
3 15 August 2022 Faster PaymentMrs Ws C 
account £2,700 £6,987
4 17 August 2022 Faster PaymentMrs Ws C 
account £5,000 £11,987
5 22 August 2022 Faster Payment Mrs Ws C 
account £1,594 £13,581
6 24 August 2022 Faster Payment Mrs Ws C 
account £4,000 £17,581
Santander responded on 18 June 2023 stating that it wouldnt reimburse Mrs Ws loss. It 
said the payments were sent to an existing payee. It also said it tried to recover Mrs Ws 
payments from C but it said the funds had been moved out of the account and no funds 
remained. 
One of our Investigators looked into things, she didnt feel the payments were unusual 
enough for Santander to have intervened based on her previous account activity. Mrs W 
didnt agree, she said in summary that; had Santander intervened at the beginning of the 
scam, it could have unravelled the scam and prevented the loss. She also said Santanders 
in-app authorisation was ineffective and given her ill health and vulnerability, the transactions 
should have been deemed unusual. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint but before I explain why, I want to make it clear 
that I believe Mrs W was the victim of a cruel scam and she is not to blame for falling victim 
to this, the scammers are. But being the victim of a scam, doesnt automatically entitle Mrs 
W to a refund. 
Ive recognised Mrs Ws comments on her ill health and vulnerability and Im very sorry to 
read about her personal circumstances. But Ive not seen any evidence that would suggest 
Santander were aware or could have known about her personal circumstances prior to the 
disputed payments being made. And so, I dont think it was aware of Mrs Ws vulnerability at 
the time of any of her payments to have treated her account any differently. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute 
unauthorised investment advice. 
There is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every
transaction.
All of the payments were sent to an existing account in Mrs Ws name. It was from that 
account that she purchased crypto and sent the crypto to the scam wallet, so Ive factored 
this into my decision. 
I dont think I can fairly say that any of the payments when taken individually or collectively 
were so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mrs Ws account such that Santander would 
reasonably have suspected a fraud or scam was taking place. They were in keeping with 
Mrs Ws normal account activity when considering her previous account spend. 
I say this because it wasnt uncommon for Mrs W to transfer money into her Santander 
account before sending a faster payment out. For example, on 10 January 2022, she 
transferred £651 into her Santander account and a faster payment was sent out on the same 
day. On 11 January 2022 she transferred £700 into her Santander account and on the same 
day she sent a faster payment of the same amount out to an external account. On 18 March 
2022, she transferred £1,160 to her Santander account and sent £1,160 to an existing 
external account on the same day. On 1 August 2022, she transferred £1,244 into her 
Santander account and sent a faster payment out of the same amount on the same day. 
Mrs W also made larger payments to existing payees for example £2,203.01 on 24 January 
2022, £2,000 on 27 July 2022, £1,9651.53 on 2 August 2022 and £2,971.62 on 22 August 
2022. Prior to each of the disputed payments, Mrs W transferred funds she needed into her 
Santander account before sending each of the disputed payments out (either the same day 
or within a couple of days of the funds being credited to the account). Therefore, the pattern 
of the spend matched her normal patterns of spend (as referenced above). 
I recognise transactions 4 and 6 were larger sums than Mrs W had previously spent, I also 
note that the payments were going to a crypto exchange and there has been an increase in 
cryptocurrency fraud in the recent years. But I cant ignore that the payments were sent to an 
existing beneficiary Mrs W had set up and paid several months prior to the scam taking 
place. And I think Santander would have reasonably known this was an existing beneficiary 
when the payments were sent. Ive seen that Mrs W had to carry out in-app authorisation 
checks for some of the payments. But I think these were proportionate to the risk identified 
by Santander  which was wanting to ensure it was Mrs W that was making the payments 
herself. I dont think Santander ought to have reasonably suspected that Mrs W could be 
falling victim to a scam just because some of the payments were larger than usual and were 
being sent to a known crypto exchange. This is because from time-to-time customers can 
pay larger amounts from their accounts and not all crypto transactions are sent as the result 
of a scam. 
Ive further noted that the payments were not all made on the same day or on consecutive 
days (which can be indicative of fraud or a scam). They were made a couple of days or 
several days apart. 
And so, taking all of this into account, I dont think Santander missed an opportunity to 
prevent Mrs Ws loss. 
Recovery
Ive thought about whether Santander did what it ought to have done, when trying to recover 
the funds for Mrs W. 
Mrs W transferred funds to an account in her name. From there, she purchased crypto and 
moved it onto a wallet address of her choosing (albeit upon the scammers instructions). 
Santander tried to recover the funds from C and it confirmed the funds had been moved on. 
I cant say that Santander could have done anymore to recover the funds Mrs W lost. The 
account she paid was in her own name and if any funds remained, they would have been 
accessible to Mrs W.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Ws loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman