DRN-4455848
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complain that National Westminster Bank Plc offered 
them an inadequate refund, following a problem with one of its systems. Theyre also 
dissatisfied with the exchange rates applied to foreign currency transfers between their 
accounts.
P are represented in the complaint by their director, Mr M.
What happened
In May 2020 NatWest wrote to P to say it had applied incorrect foreign exchange rates to 
some transactions between March 2010 and May 2014.
NatWest apologised and said it was refunding the difference, plus interest, and it sent P a 
cheque. The total amount came to about £3,300.
NatWest explained to P that the problem had arisen when changes were made to one of the 
systems it used to set foreign exchange rates. Following the changes, incorrect rates had 
been applied to some transactions for a limited period.
P werent satisfied with NatWests calculation of the refund. They told NatWest they believed 
that the issue had affected more transfers than NatWest had told them about.
NatWest provided a breakdown of what it referred to as international payment transactions 
involving Ps accounts during the affected period. It said each transaction had been reviewed 
to see whether it was affected. It addressed Ps comments about some transactions which P 
believed hadnt been taken into account, explaining that all but three had been assessed and 
included in the refund calculation where appropriate. Of the remaining three, it explained two 
had been for more than the maximum value of the transactions affected by the system issue, 
and the other had been booked through a different system.
P said they believed they had lost more than £50,000 during the period in question. They 
said theyd discovered through the media that there was significant manipulation of 
exchange rates around the time. And they complained that the exchange rates used differed 
significantly from the spot rates and interbank rates, and from rates used by other banks at 
the time.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary, that she was satisfied that only some of Ps foreign currency transactions 
had been affected by the issue with the system, and that NatWest had reimbursed P 
accordingly. She acknowledged that P were concerned about reports of Forex manipulation 
around the time of NatWests error. But she hadnt found any link between that and the 
system error that had led to the wrong rates being applied. And she thought NatWest had 
taken Ps concerns seriously, and had sufficiently investigated the additional transactions 
that P had queried.
P disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to P and 
to NatWest on 28 September 2023. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not planning to ask NatWest to do anything further. 
Ill explain why.
Changes NatWest made to one of its systems resulted in incorrect exchange rates being 
used in transactions involving currency conversion. NatWest has explained that 
exchange rate errors only affected some transactions which were processed through one 
particular system, and the problem only persisted for a limited period. Its also explained 
that not all of Ps transactions during the relevant period were booked through the 
affected system.
Mr M has commented that the transactions P has queried were not, in fact, international 
transactions, as NatWest has referred to them, but were simply transfers between Ps 
own accounts which involved currency conversions. I accept this, and agree that 
NatWest could, perhaps, have used more helpful terminology. However, in a letter that 
NatWest sent P in August 2021, it said that transactions impacted by the system error 
werent limited to those made abroad, but included, among other things, any payment or 
receipt of foreign currency, inter account transfers and currency account transfers and 
foreign cheque deposits.
Mr M has referred to nine specific transactions which were highlighted on a spreadsheet 
he provided. He says P didnt receive any refund for those, and he doesnt believe 
theyve received an explanation from NatWest.
Ive looked at the nine highlighted transactions. NatWest has explained that the problem 
with the system was limited to transactions worth less than £100,000. Six of the nine 
transactions were individually worth more than £100,000, so Im satisfied that they 
wouldnt have been affected by the issue with the system. Of the remaining three, two 
took place before 25 March 2010, which was when the problem started. And I can see 
that NatWest has explained to P that the remaining transaction, which took place in 
September 2012, was booked through a different system. So Im satisfied, on balance, 
that none of the nine transactions Mr M has highlighted would have been affected by the 
system problem.
Based on the information provided, Im satisfied that NatWest carried out a thorough 
review of all transactions that might have been affected by the problem with its system. 
Im also satisfied that it explained reasonably clearly to P why the problem only affected 
some of their transactions during the affected period, and how redress was calculated for 
the affected transactions. I acknowledge that Mr M has referred to reports of market 
manipulation. But he hasnt provided any evidence to show that Ps accounts were 
affected by any such issues or that they incurred losses for which NatWest hasnt paid 
appropriate redress.P have also complained about the exchange rates used for transactions between their 
accounts. Mr M says he understands that transfers have to undergo a currency 
exchange, but he believes that the spot rate or interbank rate should have been used, 
especially given that NatWest was charging P to make the transfer. He says that P 
received very significantly less than they would have done on their foreign currency 
transactions if NatWest had calculated the conversions at the interbank or spot rate. And 
hes dissatisfied that NatWest hasnt provided P with evidence of the rates and 
procedures it had in place for transfers between currency accounts.
The rules about what complaints we can consider are set out in the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules, which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
And I can only consider a complaint if it is brought to this service within the relevant time 
limit. Rule 2.8.2R(2) provides that unless the financial business in question gives 
consent, I cant look at a complaint made:
more than six years after the event being complained about; or
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, of cause for complaint.
The transactions P have referred to all took place more than six years before they 
referred the complaint to us. And Im satisfied that P ought reasonably to have been 
aware at the time the transactions took place that the exchange rates were higher than 
the spot rates.
Weve asked NatWest whether it agrees to this service considering the part of Ps 
complaint that the exchange rates NatWest used were unfairly disadvantageous to it, but 
NatWest has told us it doesnt. So taking everything into account, Im unable to consider 
this part of Ps complaint.
I note that Mr M says P havent paid the refund cheque in, as they believe it should be for 
much more. If the cheque has expired and, having received this decision, P would like to 
accept NatWests offer, NatWest should issue a replacement cheque to P. For the 
reasons Ive set out, however, I dont find that I can fairly require it to do more.
Further submissions
Neither P nor NatWest have provided any further comments or information in response to 
my provisional decision, and the time for doing so has now expired.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman