DRN-2280877
The complaint
Mr K complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited didnt pay for the full cost of 
repairs to his car when he made a claim on his motor breakdown insurance policy.
What happened
The radiator on Mr Ks car was replaced at a garage thats part of Acromass network of
garages. Mr K only expected to pay the £35 policy excess, as Acromas had approved the
work. But the garage later said extra time was needed to remove corroded bolts on the 
radiator. It charged Mr K for that, and for testing. Acromas didnt refund the sum Mr K had 
paid. It said corrosion wasnt covered. But later, it said the policy only covered work done 
within standard manufacturer or motor industry repair times. 
One of our investigators said Acromas should refund Mr K for the extra labour charge. 
Acromas said the garage wasnt its agent and should have raised the extra time needed for 
the repair with Mr K. It said the policy didnt cover the extra work done. The investigator said 
Acromas should pay for it and should also refund Mr K for the charge made for the diagnosis 
and a pressure test. These costs had already been paid to the garage by Acromas.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I thought as the policy says 
the repair contract is between Mr K and the garage, the garage should have told him about 
the extra work it said was needed. I thought it was reasonable for Acromas to rely on the 
policy term restricting payment to standard industry rates. And I said Mr K could contact the 
garage directly about being charged for items already paid for by Acromas.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Acromas accepted them. Mr K
made many points, but principally he said he was unhappy that in his view Id based my 
decision on private correspondence with Acromas that he wasnt made aware of.
Mr K said the arguments put to me by Acromas bore no relation to those it had made initially.
He said the removal of the bolts was part of the one job it had agreed to cover, and that
there wasnt a relevant policy exclusion. Mr K said it wasnt possible to find the policy terms
on the website, and the breakdown summary he got at renewal didnt say that work that took
longer than average wouldnt be covered. He said if Acromas had shown us such an
exclusion then it had provided false evidence.
Mr K said he used the garage after being persuaded by the technician who attended the
breakdown. The technician said Acromas would pay all charges (except the policy excess)
directly to the garage. Mr K said rust could be expected on a car like his, as it was 19 years
old  and that Acromas knew that when it agreed to provide cover. Given the advice
hed got from several other garages, Mr K didnt think the garage should have charged any
extra, as rust is common on older cars, so its part of the standard job.
Mr K said he didnt know until he saw my decision that Acromas had paid for the pressure
test and diagnosis, or that it thought he shouldnt have been charged for these items. He
didnt accept that the garage wasnt Acromass agent, given its direct billing arrangements.
I issued a second provisional decision setting out the situation as follows:
I hadnt had any contact with Acromas other than through the provisional decision 
that was sent to both parties in August 2020. Acromas had changed its view on why 
the extra work wasnt covered when it provided further information to the investigator 
in November 2019. It also told us then that it had paid for the diagnosis and pressure 
test. The last point was referred to in the investigators view.
Acromas had sent us a copy of the policys terms and conditions and Section 3(f) 
says claims will be assessed in line with manufacturer or motor industry standard 
repair times. So the term is set out in the documents, which Acromas said Mr K 
should be able to view online.
 
Under the policy, the repair contract is between the consumer and the garage, so the 
consumer must agree any work thats going to be done before a claim is authorised. 
Mr K thought hed done that, as the parties had agreed that the radiator should be 
replaced. He didnt know about the garages proposed extra work, as the garage 
chose not to tell him. I said I thought that undermined the relationship between the 
garage and Mr K. And it meant that when Acromas authorised the job, Mr K thought 
hed only have to pay the policy excess.
I didnt think the policy term Acromas had relied on about standard industry repair 
times was unreasonable, as in some cases, it might be fair to apply it. But having 
thought about it again, I said I was minded to conclude that relying on it in this case 
produced an unreasonable outcome for Mr K. I said Id taken into account that 
Acromas knew the age of Mr Ks car and that it didnt query why the garage needed 
to charge for any extra work.
Mr K used the garage on the basis that it was part of Acromass network and that 
Acromas would pay for all the work if the job was eligible. I said I thought it was 
reasonable for a consumer to assume that a network garage can be relied on. I said I 
thought the garages service fell well below an acceptable standard, as its 
communication was poor and some of its charges were wrong.
Taking everything into account, on reflection I didnt think it would be fair for Mr K to 
lose out as a result of the garages poor service. I said he could try to deal with the 
garage directly  but I thought  he might have difficulty in doing so successfully  
whereas Acromas has a business relationship with the garage due to the network 
arrangements. I thought it would be fair and reasonable for Acromas to refund the 
extra sum Mr K had paid and to recover it from the garage - but I asked the parties to 
comment before I made a final decision. 
Acromas reiterated that it didnt manage the garage. It said it was unreasonable to expect it 
to pay for costs that werent put to it for work done outside industry timescales. It said Mr Ks 
original complaint was about corroded bolts, which it had paid for before this service was 
involved. It said the garages charges came to light during our investigation and there was no 
evidence that Mr K had challenged them. Acromas also said that multiple views and 
decisions wed issued said Acromas couldnt be held responsible for third party garages.  
Although Mr K accepted the decision, he said he couldnt access the policys terms and 
conditions and therefore they didnt apply to him. 
He also said the policy term Id quoted referred to claims being assessed in line with (not 
limited to) standard manufacturer or industry time. He said Acromas wasnt entitled to interpret it in the way it had. Alternatively, he said it was a significant policy limitation that 
should have been set out in the policy summary. Mr K said he was still troubled that our 
process allowed for private discussions between an ombudsman and a business. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In terms of Mr Ks concerns about our process, Id refer him to the comments I made in my 
previous decisions. Ive had no private discussions with Acromas. The same applies to his 
comments about not being able to access the policy terms. Theres no evidence that they 
werent available to him, and Acromas says they were. If Mr K cant access the documents, 
he should contact Acromas about that directly. I dont agree with Mr K that Acromas isnt 
entitled to interpret the policy term about standard industry times as it did. As I said in my 
previous decision, in some cases, I think that may be fair.   
I know Acromas doesnt think it should have to cover the bill for the extra work the garage 
charged for, and that it thinks similar decisions have been decided differently. But each case 
is considered on its merits and the circumstances in each case will be different.  
For the reasons stated in my previous decision, I think Acromas should pay for the extra 
charges in this case. Mr Ks complaint was always about being charged an extra £72, which 
was for the extra work on the bolts and for the tests that Acromas has paid for as well. Mr K 
couldnt have known about the double-charging until Acromas told us about it, which is why 
he didnt mention it initially. As Acromas has a business relationship with the garage, I think 
its fair and reasonable to ask it to pay Mr K for the extra work plus the tests the garage 
charged twice for and recover the money from the garage.
Initially, Mr K said he wanted compensation for inconvenience. He hasnt mentioned it since 
and accepted the provisional decision without any proposed compensation. Ive considered 
whether it would be appropriate in this case, but I think requiring Acromas to put Mr K back 
in the position he should be in financially is a reasonable way to deal with this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to refund Mr K the extra £72 he paid on the claim. It should add interest to the 
refund, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman