DRN-3323554
The complaint
Ms H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as very gave her 
incorrect information about payments on her catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
Ms H had made a purchase of £399.99 on her catalogue shopping account under a buy now 
pay later arrangement (BNPL). This arrangement meant that if Ms H paid off the full cash 
price within the BNPL period, no interest would be applied. In November 2019, Ms H got in 
contact with Shop Direct to ask it about what payments were required towards her account 
and the BNPL purchase in particular. She wanted to know in what circumstances interest 
would be charged. 
Shop Direct told her that interest would be backdated for the BNPL period if she didnt pay 
off the BNPL on time. However, it said that if Ms H made partial payments towards the BNPL 
balance then deferred interest would only be applied for the amount that was left 
outstanding. After receiving that advice Ms H made a payment of £300 towards her BNPL 
purchase. On her next account statement Shop Direct added all of the deferred interest for 
the entire £399.99 purchase, even though only £99.99 remained unpaid.
Ms H complained to Shop Direct and said had she known this would happen she would have 
paid it off in full rather than making a partial payment. She was prepared to pay a small 
amount of interest on the balance of £99.99 to help with cash flow, but not the entire 
purchase. She says she could have paid it all off if required, but simply preferred not to 
because of what Shop Direct had told her about how interest would be charged. 
Shop Direct accepted it gave Ms H incorrect information about how much interest would be 
charged and how the BNPL arrangement operated. It offered to pay her £30 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Ms H would 
have paid off the balance in full had she been given the correct information by Shop Direct. 
He said Shop Direct should rework the account removing all BNPL interest from this 
purchase and any subsequent interest that had been charged one top of that interest. He 
also recommended Shop Direct pay Ms H £100 compensation for the upset that had been 
caused. 
Ms H accepted that recommendation but Shop Direct didnt. In summary, it said it was 
prepared to agree to the increased compensation payment of £100 to resolve the complaint. 
However, it didnt agree to refund any interest. This was because it said that Ms H had made 
many BNPL purchases in the past and had always paid the balance off in full before the due 
date. It said this indicated she was fully aware of how the BNPL arrangement worked and 
how to avoid interest.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Shop Direct gave Ms H incorrect information about how interest would 
be calculated on any partial payments she made. However, I dont think Shop Direct has 
fairly put things right because of that error. Ill explain why. 
Shop Direct has sought to argue that Ms H was fully aware of how the BNPL arrangement 
worked because shed used it previously and always paid the entire purchase price before 
interest fell due. But I dont think this supports Shop Directs argument at all. Ms H clearly did 
understand that no interest would be applied if she paid it off in full by the required date. That 
isnt what is in dispute and Shop Direct appears to have missed the point entirely. 
Instead, Ms H was looking to establish what would be the most financially advantageous 
step to take in relation to her BNPL purchase given it was in the run up to Christmas. Shes 
said she ideally wanted to have some spare cash available for Christmas spending so 
wanted to see what impact making partial payments on her BNPL purchase would have. As 
Shop Direct told her that interest would only apply on the part of the BNPL that was left 
outstanding, she chose to leave £99.99 unpaid so that she could then clear it after Christmas 
and only incur a small amount of interest compared to what would be added on the full 
purchase price. 
However, the information she was given wasnt accurate and Ms H says had she known the 
true position she would have paid it off in full as she didnt want to incur the full amount of 
interest. Shop Direct has said that it doesnt believe Ms H would have done this as it says it 
appears she didnt have the funds available at the time. It says if she did, she would have 
paid it in full. But as Ive set out above, that isnt the circumstances that Ms H has described 
and Im persuaded by what she has told us, particularly because as Shop Direct has 
highlighted, Ms H had paid all previous BNPL purchases in full. Further, in the conversation 
she had with Shop Direct at the time, she initially said her plan was to pay it off in full before 
Shop Direct gave her the wrong information. 
It seems the only reason she didnt then pay it off in full was to leave spending money 
available for Christmas and she thought only a small amount of interest would be added on 
the leftover balance. Clearly it has cost her significantly more in interest than had she paid 
the additional £99.99 (over £200 of interest was added). Im therefore satisfied that shes 
only incurred the interest charge because of Shop Directs error. 
To place Ms H back in the position she would have been in but for the error, Shop Direct 
should therefore re-work the account as if no interest had been applied to the purchase 
price, including any subsequent interest that may have been applied onto that interest. 
The interest charge has had a further knock on effect for Ms H because not only was the 
interest significantly more than she was anticipating, but interest has continued to accrue on 
that interest when she wasnt able to clear it in full. This has understandably been upsetting 
for Ms H and I consider the £100 compensation suggested by the adjudicator and agreed to 
by Shop Direct is fair to reflect the upset and inconvenience that was caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited, trading as very to:Rework the account as if no interest was applied to the BNPL purchase of £399.99 
including any subsequent interest applied on that interest charge.
Pay Ms H £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman