DRN-3629066
The complaint
Mr R complains that Assetz SME Capital Limited has treated him unfairly when 
administering his crowdfunding accounts. Hes unhappy with changes made to the 
withdrawals and says Assetz has misled him regarding where his money was invested.
What happened
Mr R held a standard account and an account held within an Innovative Finance ISA 
(IFISA) wrapper on Assetzs peer-to-peer lending platform. Within these account investors 
on Assetz platform could invest their cash into different lending accounts  including a Quick 
Access Account (QAA). Mr R first invested in the QAA in December 2017.
One of the features of the QAA was that when an account holder made a request to 
withdraw money, it would be placed on the secondary market immediately for sale. The 
ability to access money via this way was dependant on a number of factors  including the 
amount of new investors, cash available for distribution, the frequency and the amount of 
loan repayments due. Whilst the ability to withdraw early from a loan wasnt guaranteed  
and is always dependent on demand from other available buyers  the QAA was designed to 
give account holders quick access to their money. Assetz provided other types of access 
accounts such as the 30 and 90-day accounts where account holders would need to wait for 
the respective periods of time before withdrawal requests would be placed on the secondary 
market (but account holders would usually receive a higher rate of interest for doing so).
These accounts also had an invest idle funds function which, if switched on, allowed Assetz 
to sweep uninvested cash from any account (including cash accounts contained within the 
standard and IFISA account) into the Quick Access Account (QAA) to be reinvested. 
In March 2020, Assetz informed customers due to the abnormal market conditions caused 
by the Covid-19 pandemic, it needed to initially pause withdrawal requests whilst a review of 
the situation was carried out. On 19 March Assetz put in place a queuing system which 
involved a flat distribution of funds to account holders. Assetz explained the method divided 
the amount to be distributed equally amongst all lenders on a per withdrawing account basis.
Mr R put in a request to withdraw his funds in March 2020 but he was unhappy to be told he 
would have to be placed into the withdrawal queue. He said that without notice, Assetz had 
swept just over £0.01 swept from his standard account and around £42,000 from his IFISA 
account to the QAA. Mr R said that prior to the introduction of the queuing system, he would 
be able withdraw from his accounts and not have to do so from the QAA. He said the new 
queueing system resulted in those investors with a small amount of funds on the platform 
receiving all, or the majority of, their withdrawal request, regardless of when their request 
was made. But those, with more funds, like him, only received a small percentage. 
He complained to Assetz in late March 2020 as he felt this was unfair as the changes 
introduced by Assetz delayed his withdrawal request. His wife also raised a complaint 
regarding the same issues with Assetz which this service has dealt with separately. In that 
complaint his wife provided screenshots dated 14 March 2020 to demonstrate that both her 
and Mr Rs accounts showed that funds were uninvested and so shouldve been available for 
withdrawal. 
Assetz looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
Mr R had the invest idle funds function set to active on his standard account since 29 
December 2017 and active on his IFISA account from 28 March 2018. 
Having this function active meant that his funds, from whatever source account, were 
invested into loans within the QAA - earning the target interest rate for the account.
Normal market condition ceased on 12 March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic 
and Assetz made the decision to turn off the invest idle funds function and introduced 
the withdrawal queuing system on 19 March. 
However, Mr Rs funds had already been swept into the QAA by this point. 
Assetz put in place a withdrawal queue system in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic to allow withdrawals to continue in a fair and timely way, albeit more slowly 
than investors had been used to. 
Given that Mr Rs funds were invested in the QAA, these had been lent out to 
borrowers and as he didnt instigate a withdrawal from the account (including turning 
off the invest idle funds function on the QAA) prior to normal market conditions 
ceasing, he needed to wait in the queue for any withdrawal requests.
Mr R remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to this Service for an independent 
review. 
An investigator at this Service considered Mr Rs complaint but didnt think Assetz had acted 
unfairly. In summary he said:
The key investor information explained what would constitute abnormal market 
conditions and due to the increase in withdrawal requests in response to the Covid-
19 pandemic, Assetz introduced restrictions on withdrawals.
The queuing system was introduced to apply fairly to all investors as the low levels of 
liquidity meant it couldnt service withdrawals as normal.
Assetz had a duty to act in investors best interests as a whole and he felt it had done 
so by introducing the queuing system. As if it hadnt, there would have been a 
significant risk of a minority receiving their money, leaving the majority without.
He understood Mr Rs concerns that Assetz showed his investment as being held in 
cash, but explained that it wouldve been made clear to her when he enabled the 
invest idle funds setting in 2017 that this cash would be invested  including where it 
was showing in her standard and IFISA account.
It was also made clear to Mr R that cash held in his standard and IFISA accounts 
would only be readily accessible with the invest idle funds setting enabled during 
normal market conditions  as such, when that changed in March 2020, his cash was 
invested and so hed fairly been entered into the withdrawal queue.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. He said Assetz hadnt treated all investors 
fairly, as investors in Assetz 30-day and 90-day access accounts benefited from a higher 
interest rate whilst having the ability to access their cash just as quickly as those invested in 
the QAA. He also said that Assetz had misled him into believing that his money was held in 
cash and not in the QAA. He said Assetz should be held to account and pay compensation 
for misleading information which resulted in preventing access to his money which he 
believed was readily available.      
As such, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is two-fold. Namely, that Assetzs introduction of the queuing 
system was unfair and that he ought to have been able to withdraw his money as his 
accounts showed it was uninvested. As such, my decision will focus on these two issues 
individually. 
Introduction of the queueing system
Firstly, Ive looked at how the QAA was described to Mr R when he first invested in 2017. 
Assetz has provided screen shots of how the QAA was described. These explained: 
We have designed the Quick Access Account to provide you with a fair return on 
your investment, while providing you with the fastest possible access to your cash in 
normal market conditions.
[]
In normal market conditions, transferring funds between Assetz Capital Investment 
Accounts should happen within seconds, while complete withdrawal of funds from 
our platform should take two days. 
Assetz also provided detail of the following warning provided on the QAA account 
dashboard: 
The QAA is designed to provide immediate access to your cash, in normal market 
conditions, should you wish to sell your investment and return your cash for another 
purpose, though access times cannot be guaranteed. 
So, it does appear from this information that Mr R could expect to withdraw funds quickly 
and not expect to be in a queuing system. But it is important to note that there is a reference 
to normal market conditions applying. 
Assetz has provided detail of the FAQ document that was held on its website. This provided 
the definition for normal market conditions at the time Mr R first invested in the QQA:
What is Assetz Capitals definition of normal market conditions? 
Normal market conditions means conditions that are broadly what we have at the 
moment. This means economic conditions are reasonably stable, lenders are making 
withdrawals from the Quick Access Account (QAA) or 30 Day Access Account 
(30DAA), together known as the Access Accounts, in the normal course of business 
and other lenders are willing and able to buy their loan parts through that account 
and others that we offer. In addition, the Access Accounts also hold a certain amount 
of cash liquid to help increase the liquidity of withdrawal requests above and 
beyond normal market supply and demand. The result of the Access Accounts 
operation and the normal market conditions we have enjoyed to date is that every 
lender has had their withdrawal request carried out when they requested since the 
accounts opened for investment. Nonetheless past performance should not be taken as a guide to the future and 
abnormal market conditions could conceivably change the speed of withdrawals. 
Abnormal market conditions would be if there was a very large, sudden and extended 
demand to withdraw cash from the Access Accounts. This might be caused by a 
global recession, an abrupt and widespread loss of faith in peer-to-peer lending or 
any number of other situations. If, for a sustained period, a significant number of 
lenders chose to withdraw their cash in significant quantities and no (or few) new 
lenders were available to buy their loan parts, conditions would at that point be 
abnormal and the Access Accounts would not be then able to maintain their current 
speed of access for withdrawals. 
Ultimately this could mean that lenders may have to wait until a buyer could be found 
for their loans held within the Access Accounts, or until the loans were repaid over 
time by the borrowers. The latter situation arises due to the loans within the Access 
Accounts having monthly repayments being made by borrowers or by loans naturally 
reaching the end of their term for full repayment. This repayment of loans should 
continue to create some capital, which would be available for withdrawal by investors 
regardless of market conditions being abnormal. This is the reason that we quote the 
in normal market conditions message everywhere that we refer to Access Account 
withdrawal times; we cannot guarantee access times in all possible economic 
scenarios and we want our lenders to understand that.
Assetz communicated to investors in March 2020 that normal market conditions had ended. 
It explained that the excessive volatility on the financial markets as a result of the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic had impacted lending on the platform. It told customers in a March 
2020 blog post on its website that it had seen an imbalance created on 12th March 2020 
between withdrawals and deposits that it had not seen before and couldnt allow that to 
continue without a positive intervention. So, initially it suspended the withdrawal system 
operation for access accounts (including the QAA) before later introducing a flat distribution 
system.
Having considered the information Assetz has provided, Im satisfied that it has provided 
sufficient evidence to support its assertion that normal market conditions ceased in March 
2020  due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. And so Im satisfied the actions it took in 
introducing the queuing system was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im also 
satisfied it informed account holders that it wouldnt be able to operate accounts in the way it 
had during normal conditions. 
I can appreciate why Mr R feels the queueing system meant he lost the advantage of having 
an account that gave him quicker access to his money compared to account holders who 
had invested in the 30 and 90-day accounts. And that he received a lower rate of interest 
than those in these accounts. But as Ive explained, Assetz did detail on its website that the 
operation of the account and withdrawal process was dependent on normal market 
conditions. As I have accepted the explanation given by Assetz that normal market condition 
ended in March 2020, I cant agree that Mr R has been treated unfairly compared to other 
customers in this respect. 
The withdrawal system Assetz introduced on the 19 March 2020 was a flat distribution of 
funds. This meant that when funds became available for withdrawal, the amount to be 
distributed was equally divided amongst all lenders on a per withdrawing account basis. This 
did lead to account holders with smaller amounts invested receiving the same level of 
withdrawal as larger investors. But Assetz say it did mean a larger number of account 
holders overall were given access to funds. Assetz says it was a difficult decision to 
introduce the withdrawal system, but the aim was to ensure the largest number of lenders 
would have reasonable access to some of their funds as soon as possible. Im conscious Assetz does need to balance the needs of all of its lending members. Im also conscious that 
if Assetz had allowed larger lenders to make full significant withdrawals, this would have 
negatively impacted smaller investors. Indeed, it says if it hadnt introduced a withdrawal 
system and left it as a first in, first out approach, a small number of large withdrawals would 
have stopped withdrawals for the majority of lenders. Assetz has provided data to this 
service to support this claim. It says this information is commercially sensitive. Im able to 
accept information in confidence and Im satisfied its appropriate to do so here. Im satisfied 
it has demonstrated why it didnt think it would be fair for the vast majority of its customers to 
allow the withdrawals method to remain unchanged in light of the prevailing circumstances in 
March 2020.
Assetz did make a further update to the withdrawal system in June 2020  amending the flat 
distribution from the queue to a pro rata system. This allowed for withdrawals to be linked to 
the amount invested in individual accounts. I can see why this system is favourable to the 
flat distribution as it provides a better way of reflecting requests to withdraw by taking into 
account the amount individuals lenders have on the platform. So, I think this change 
supports that Assetz was seeking to treat its customers fairly  and I find this change was in 
Mr Rs best interests.
Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, I havent found that the changes Assetz made 
in March 2020 to the QAA amount to Mr R being treated unfairly. I say this because Assetz 
has demonstrated that during that period, market conditions were abnormal  leading to a 
justification to make changes. There is a balance to be drawn between the needs of 
individual customers like Mr R and making decisions for the whole customer base. Im also 
conscious that there no guarantees of making early withdrawals were made by Assetz but 
regardless, the withdrawal system introduced aimed to give account holders access to funds 
early. I also acknowledge that all investors who wanted to withdraw were in the same 
situation  in being reliant on payments from borrowers to generate funds to withdraw. I dont 
find that any individual investor has claim over another. And I think its within the scope of 
Assetzs commercial judgment to decide how to allocate repayments. 
Sweeping of Mr Rs cash into the QAA
Assetz has explained that it swept the cash Mr R says was uninvested in accordance with 
him having the invest idle funds function activated on his accounts. And that it did so prior to 
its decision to temporarily remove the function and the introduction of the queueing system 
on 19 March 2020. I can confirm that Assetz has provided a full transaction list for Mr Rs 
standard and IFISA accounts to evidence this.
It's not disputed that Mr R had the invest idle funds function activated his standard account 
since 29 December 2017 and active on his IFISA account from 28 March 2018. This was 
something which Mr R had to actively turn on himself and so I think he ought to have been 
aware of how this would affect his accounts. 
Ive also considered the screenshots Mr Rs wife has provided and whilst I agree that these 
are quite confusing, I dont think Assetz has acted unfairly in sweeping his cash when it did. 
One of the screenshots provided dated 14 March 2020 appears to show that cash was 
available in the accounts. However, Assetz has explained that his balance statements 
further clarified where his money in these accounts were invested and that he ought to have 
seen that the amounts disputed had been swept into the QAA. Ive shared the screenshots 
Mr R has provided with Assetz. Assetz says the screenshot provided by Mr R doesnt show 
the full information which would have been displayed to him as the screenshot is cut off at 
the total account balances line. Assetz has provided a screenshot showing the full 
information which would have been displayed to Mr R on 14 March 2020. This screenshot 
includes a line underneath the total account balances which shows the amounts in dispute having been swept in the QAA for both his standard and IFISA account. Assetz has 
explained that the swept amounts only show in the final line on the statement so that 
investors can differentiate between funds directly invested and any funds swept from the 
cash account or any of the other investment accounts. 
Whilst I can appreciate why Mr R feels Assetzs way of displaying his accounts information is 
confusing, its clear to me that in normal market conditions where his cash was invested 
would have less relevance to his ability to access his money. As Ive explained above, this is 
because under normal market conditions account holders were able to access their money 
quickly due to there being sufficient demand from other buyers. Its only become an issue 
due to the changes Assetz had to make regarding the queuing system, but as Ive already 
explained, I think it was fair and reasonable for Assetz to make these changes. So having 
reviewed all of the evidence provided, I havent found that Assetz acted unfairly in sweeping 
Mr Rs idle funds when it did and it follows that it was fair for him to have to wait in the queue 
in order to access his money.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman