DRN-1420875
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr B payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The PPI 
started in 2000 when Mrs and Mr B extended their mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mrs and Mr B aware that the PPI was optional, but that they still 
chose to take it. Mrs and Mr B have made clear they were aware of the PPI and from what 
they have said it seems clear they knew they didnt have to take the PPI  they have said 
though they wish they had more options about the types of PPI and terms available to them, 
which they feel were restricted because of their medical conditions. (However, Nationwide 
says offered the same policy to everyone regardless of their health situation  its not though 
a question I need to resolve in looking at this complaint.) 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr B as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs and Mr B to decide whether it was suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr B took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were greater 
than Mrs and Mr Bs sick pay and savings, and the cost wasnt significantly high. So, in their 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
The PPI policy didnt, for the first 12 months of the policy, cover claims arising from already-
present medical conditions. And this would have been relevant to both Mrs and Mr B 
because of their health history. But, from what Mrs and Mr B have told us, they seem to have 
been aware of this restriction. And even if they werent fully aware, I dont think its likely that 
full information would have affected whether they took the PPI. I say this because they had 
suffered from their conditions for many years, and Mrs B had never had to take time off work 
from it; and Mr B had only taken the odd day off, and controlled the condition through medication. So its unlikely theyd have expected to make a claim in those first 12 months for 
PPI sickness benefit because of those conditions. And they would still have been covered for 
other sickness absences and unemployment immediately; and after 12 months they would 
have had full cover  and a mortgage is normally a long term commitment of many years. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman