DRN-2111411
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with the closing of his account
and about adverse information it incorrectly reported to the Credit Reference Agencies.
What happened
Mr C says Nationwide told him it was closing his account in December 2018. He says the
account wasn't closed and believes he was being charged for something that meant adverse 
information was being reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA's). Mr C says he 
spoke to Nationwide about this but it wouldn't transfer a credit balance in the account back to 
him. He says he has been caused distress and inconvenience by what's happened.
Nationwide says it made the decision to close the account and agreed to refund the
overdraft balance of £100. It says the account wasn't closed and it credited more than £100
to the account which meant it was in credit. Nationwide says Mr C spoke to it in January
2019 and it agreed to close the account and update his credit file. It accepts it didn't close
the account until Mr C told it the account was still open in October 2019. Nationwide says the 
credit was a mistake and so couldn't transfer it to Mr C. It says it doesn't think any adverse 
information has been recorded on Mr C's credit file apart from data from before the account 
ought to have been closed.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't think Mr C had been
disadvantaged by the account not being closed. The investigator thought the adverse
information on Mr C's credit file was correctly and accurately reported and that Nationwide
had agreed to update the credit file with the correct account closing date. The investigator
didn't think there was any evidence of any loss caused by Nationwide's actions and didn't
think the £35 account balance was Mr C's.
Mr C provided information from his credit file and one set of screenshots showed there was
adverse data reported from December 2018. The investigator agreed with Mr C and
provided the information to Nationwide.
Nationwide says it checked Mr C's credit file again and was satisfied that no adverse data
was recorded. It also questioned if the adverse data related to a different account.
Nationwide says it would consider compensation if there was evidence that any mistake it
made had affected Mr C's credit file.
Mr C has provided further information that appears to show adverse data on his credit file
reported by Nationwide for April, July and August 2019.
 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint. And I came to the provisional view that 
Nationwide hadn't dealt fairly with this complaint.I said I was satisfied that Nationwide told Mr C it was closing his account in December 2018. 
I accepted it was entitled to do that. But I thought Mr C was entitled to have expected 
Nationwide to have closed that account as it said it would. I could see that Mr C told 
Nationwide in January 2019 the account was still open and that he was again told it would 
be closed. I was satisfied Nationwide didn't close the account and it was allowed to stay 
open until Mr C told it that it was still open in around September or October 2019. So I was 
satisfied that Mr C was caused inconvenience by Nationwide's mistakes and that the credit 
file problems would not have taken place if the account had been closed in December 2018.
I could see that Mr C gave us three different sets of extracts from his credit file which all
contained different information. I made it clear that I thought it would have been helpful to 
have seen Mr C's full credit file, and I said I was not sure why he couldn't provide us with that 
full report. I said that I hoped that he would now do so. I was satisfied that having looked at 
the latest extracts that one CRA had adverse information reported by Nationwide in April, 
July and August 2019. I didn't think it clear why that information has been registered. But I 
thought provisionally that information must have come from Nationwide and wouldn't have 
been reported if the account had been closed in the first place.
So I thought provisionally that adverse information has been reported to the CRA's. And that 
Mr C had spent some time bringing his complaints to Nationwide, and getting the account
closure problem sorted out. I  accepted he was caused distress and inconvenience. But I 
said I hadn't seen any evidence that the adverse information on the credit file led directly to 
Mr C suffering any financial loss and I also thought it difficult to be sure how the information 
affected his credit rating without the full picture a full credit report would provide. But I was 
satisfied that Nationwide ought to pay Mr C compensation for what took place, which I 
thought should be £150. I thought that amount  fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I didn't think the £35 that Nationwide credited Mr C's account was his, and so I didn't think it
should have been transferred to him.
Nationwide has replied to my provisional decision and says it will pay the compensation but 
says it can't see that any adverse information has been registered on Mr C's credit file after 
the date it ought to have closed the account.
Mr C doesn't accept my provisional view and in summary he says the compensation 
recommended doesn't go far enough and doesn't take into account the harm and distress 
Nationwide's actions has caused. He says he will not provide a full copy of his credit report 
and the extracts he has provided are sufficient and says he was a refused a loan as a result 
of the adverse information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as I did in my provisional decision.
I'm satisfied the compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects how long it 
took for Nationwide to close the account and for the distress and inconvenience Mr C was 
caused. I also think that award  fairly reflects the impact Nationwide's actions had on Mr C's 
credit file. I have made clear that I'm satisfied, based on the extracts Mr C has provided, that 
some adverse information was reported to the CRA's by Nationwide. I don't think it possible 
to say what the impact was by that reporting as Mr C has not provided his full credit file, 
which I accept is his choice. And in those circumstances it is difficult on balance to conclude 
that Nationwide's reporting of adverse information was the only reason Mr C's loan 
application was refused. I say that as lenders consider many factors before deciding to lend including information that isn't recorded on a credit file such as income and employment.
I appreciate that Mr C has provided evidence from his credit file about adverse information 
reported in 2018. I'm satisfied that took place before Nationwide ought to have closed the 
account and I have not seen any evidence that reporting was anything other than an 
accurate reporting of the account at that time.
I can see that the investigator has given Nationwide the information from Mr C's credit file 
which I'm satisfied contains adverse information reported to the CRA's in 2019 which is after 
the date the account ought to have been closed. I appreciate Nationwide says it can't see a 
record of that but I'm satisfied it appears on Mr C's credit file and it now has a copy of it. And 
it ought to be removed. For that reason I intend to order Nationwide to remove any adverse 
information it has recorded on Mr C's credit file after December 2018 when the account 
ought to have been closed. I appreciate that may mean Nationwide will need to check the 
position carefully with the CRA that Mr C has provided evidence of that does show the 
adverse information. I make clear to Mr C that I'm not making any such similar order about 
information reported to the CRA's before that date.
Putting things right
I intent to order Nationwide to pay the compensation and remove any adverse information 
from Mr C's credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr C £150 compensation and remove any adverse information about this account reported 
to the Credit Reference Agencies after 4 December 2018. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman