DRN-2931155
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy because Unum Ltd has declined a claim he made on his employers group
income protection scheme.
What happened
Mr D became absent from work in March 2019 due to chronic anxiety. He reported
symptoms of low mood and an anxiety disorder. Mr D made a claim on his employers group
income protection policy. He said that he was unable to leave the house, experienced panic
attacks, had poor sleep and struggled with communication. He claimed on his employers
group income protection policy.
Unum declined the claim on the basis that Mr Ds absence was mainly related to perceived
workplace stressors. They said Mr D didnt have a significantly impairing mental health
condition, therefore the definition of incapacity had not been met. Mr D was unhappy but
Unum didnt change their mind when they reviewed the claim or when Mr D made a
complaint. So, Mr D made a complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think Unum had fairly rejected
Mr Ds claim. He thought that Unum should have obtained more information about Mr Ds
circumstances, in particular about his functional capacity at work. He thought Unum should
obtain this information, reconsider the claim and pay Mr D £200 compensation.
Unum didnt agree. They said that it was for Mr D to prove his claim and provide evidence.
So they said it wasnt for them to obtain further information as theyd never accepted Mr Ds
claim. They also highlighted that appointing and Independent Medical Examiner (IME) at this
time could only provide a retrospective review of the evidence. They asked an ombudsman
to review the complaint.
In March 2021 I issued my provisional decision and explained that I was intending to put 
things right in a different way. I said:
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its for Mr D to show that he has a valid claim, not for Unum to demonstrate he 
hasnt. In order to do so Mr D needed to demonstrate that its most likely that he met 
the policy definition of incapacity. The policy says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and
substantial duties of their insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation.
Unum identified that Mr Ds job included various occupational requirements including:
good IT skills
technical and analytical ability
good business acumen and awareness
good communication and interpersonal skills
excellent time management skills, ability to multi-task and meet deadlines.
I dont think Unum did act fairly when they rejected Mr Ds claim. I say that because:
Mr D did have a history of mental health problems. But that doesnt mean he 
cant claim on the policy. The key issue is whether, at the time he was absent 
from work, he met the policy definition of incapacity
I dont think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the main problem 
was work related stressors. Mr D didnt have any specific issues with his 
particular employer. He expressed dissatisfaction with an unfulfilled creative 
career and its clear that the job he was doing wasnt his ideal job. But theres 
no suggestion of specific issues within the workplace, such as tensions with 
peers or managers. In fact, in February 2019, Mr Ds GP noted that his 
primary motivation was to stay in work
Throughout the relevant period Mr D was attending his GP for support. He 
was also referred for CBT and continued to be prescribed medication for his 
condition. As Unum noted, Mr D described experiencing panic attacks in work 
place situations. His GP had been prescribing him diazepam to help with this 
and described Mr D as feeling increasingly unable to meet the demands of 
work and as lost in a haze. The GPs conclusion was that Mr D was 
experiencing anxiety with depression. Mr D was in regular contact with his GP 
and they had frequent discussions about his state of mind. I note that the GP 
did not diagnose work related stress and I think the GP was well placed to 
understand Mr Ds challenges. I think its most likely that Mr D was
experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression and that the symptoms he 
was experiencing would have impacted on the key attributes of his role
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Mr D provided enough evidence to 
show that he met the definition of incapacity. I think the medical evidence 
suggested it was most likely that at the relevant time he wasnt able to carry 
out the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation because of 
his anxiety and depression. Whilst those symptoms seem to have mainly 
manifested themselves in workplace situations, I dont think it was reasonable 
to conclude that they were as a result of workplace issues with Mr Ds 
employer. Even if hed been employed by a different employer it seems likely 
hed have encountered the same issues  so I dont think it was reasonable to 
decline Mr Ds claim
Ive taken into account whether there is any benefit in asking Unum to 
undertake a further review of the medical evidence. But I dont think there is 
bearing in mind the passage of time. And, as Unum has acknowledged in 
response to our investigator, any review would now be retrospective. So, I 
think Unum needs to pay Mr Ds claim
Mr D should be aware that Unum is entitled to review his claim at any point. I
understand that Mr D is still employed and therefore he should also be aware 
that any benefit may be paid to his employer. If the position has changed then Mr D should let our investigator know when he responds to my provisional 
decision
As I think that Mr D provided enough evidence to demonstrate he met the 
policy definition of incapacity I think Unum should also pay 8% simple interest 
to Mr D on the payments which ought to have been made since the 
commencement date of the policy
I also think that Unum should pay £200 to Mr D for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. As a result of not receiving an income hes now in 
financial hardship and hes experienced a lot of worry and upset as a result. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable Unum pay him compensation for that 
additional worry.
Putting things right
Im intending to direct Unum to put things right by paying the claim from the 
commencement date, in line with the remaining policy limits. They should also pay 
8% simple interest on those payments and £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr D.
I asked both Mr D and Unum to let me know if they had any further comments. Mr D said 
that he had been made redundant since bringing the complaint to our service and expressed 
concern about having to obtain any payments from his former employer. 
Unum disagreed with my provisional decision and said that the medical evidence confirms 
Mr D made an active decision to stop work and that the policy definition of incapacity had not 
been met. They also confirmed that benefit would need to be paid to the policyholder and it 
would cease on the date that Mr D left his former employer. 
I let Mr D and Unum know that I was intending to direct Unum to pay the benefit to Mr D 
directly together with the compensation and simple interest. Unum said it couldnt deduct tax 
and national insurance on Mr Ds former employers behalf and that the benefit of the policy 
ended when Mr D left employment. Unum said that the employer has a legal obligation to 
pay tax and national insurance on the claim amount and that payment of the claim amount 
would be made to the employer direct. However, they were happy to pay Mr D the 
compensation of £200 directly. Our investigator updated Mr D in relation to the position and 
explained that the claim amount and interest would need to be paid to the policyholder.  
So, I now need to make a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments made my Unum but they havent changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint and Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Unum said, in summary, that Mr D made an active decision to stop work and that it didnt 
consider that the prescribing of medication and a referral to CBT would impact on Mr Ds 
ability to perform his insured occupation. However, I remain satisfied that the overall medical evidence indicates that it is most likely 
that Mr D met the policy definition of incapacity. As I outlined in my provisional decision there 
was a reasonable level of contact with the GP and I think, in the circumstances of this case, 
the GP was well placed to understand Mr Ds mental state at the relevant time.  
The GP diagnosed anxiety and depression  he also prescribed medication and Mr D was 
also attending CBT. And, there was information about how it impacted on his ability to do his 
insured occupation. As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that these issues 
were impacted by his particular employer or workplace issues. It seems more likely to me 
that Mr D would have faced similar challenges had he tried to do his insured occupation, for 
example, for a different employer. 
 
Overall, I think Mr D provided sufficient information to demonstrate that he had a valid claim 
under the policy and I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Unum to decline it. 
Putting things right
Unum need to put things right by paying: 
The policy benefit from the commencement date to the date that Mr Ds entitlement 
to benefit under the policy ended, subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. Unum should also pay 8% simple interest on those payments. This 
payment should be made to the policyholder
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D. This payment should be 
made to Mr D directly, upon receipt of Mr Ds current bank details. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and directing Unum Ltd to put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr 
D to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman