DRN-3226377
The complaint
Mr E complains that he didnt receive a replacement TV from Domestic and General 
Insurance PLC (D&G), following a claim under his gadget insurance. 
What happened
Mr E contacted D&G to report that his television had broken down. It sent an engineer who 
deemed it unrepairable, so D&G sent Mr E a link to choose a replacement TV and to select 
the delivery date.  
When the TV was delivered, Mr E said that he wasnt home due to work and he said that the 
delivery had been refused by a family member, as the replacement TV didnt have the same 
features as the one that it was replacing. 
Several months later, when Mr E returned from work, he found that he was still without a TV 
and complained to D&G. In its final response, it said that the TV had been delivered and 
signed for and it obtained the delivery note as proof of delivery, from its suppliers. So, there 
was nothing further it could do. 
Mr E referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the complaint and 
didnt think it should be upheld. He said that as Mr E could not provide evidence that he had 
been away at work and as D&G had provided evidence that the TV had been delivered and 
signed for  rather than refused delivery, he couldnt conclude that D&G had done anything 
wrong, as it had complied with the policy terms of repairing or replacing the TV.
D&G accepted the view, Mr E did not. He said that our investigator was having a laugh and 
what would happen next is that he wanted the replacement TV, as he didnt have one. He 
didnt care how, but our investigator should just do it and get D&G to send the TV to his 
home in time for Christmas. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr E will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I think this is 
fair.  
Mr Es policy provided for the repair or replacement, of the TV if it couldnt be repaired. D&G 
were unable to repair the TV and so agreed, as per the policy terms, to replace the TV. 
D&G said that it had sent a link to Mr E for him to choose a replacement TV as well as a 
delivery date. It said that the link wouldve given Mr E varying options for him to select a new 
TV and with those options, would be the specification of the TV, so that he would know what 
to expect. The TV was delivered on 23 October 2020.
Mr E said on the day of delivery he wasnt at home and delivery of the TV was refused. D&G 
provided the delivery note that had been signed. Having reviewed the delivery note, there is 
no indication in it, that the delivery of the TV had been refused. So, I think there is enough 
evidence to support that the TV had been successfully delivered.
The signed delivery note was sent to Mr E for his comments. He said that the signature was 
not his. And reiterated that he wasnt at home as he was away for work. Mr E was asked to 
provide evidence to show that he was away, and none was provided. 
I understand that Mr E said that he didnt sign the delivery note, but there is no evidence to 
say that the note hadnt been signed on his behalf. Further, the evidence that I have seen 
suggests that the TV was successfully delivered. If it had been refused at the point of 
delivery, I think that it would be more likely that the note wouldve indicated that delivery had 
been refused. 
Taking all this into consideration, although I understand this will not be the outcome that Mr 
E wouldve liked, Im satisfied that D&G complied with the policy terms by replacing the TV 
as it was obliged to do. It also provided evidence to support that the TV had been delivered 
and signed for. In light of this, Im unable to ask D&G to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman