DRN-3594685
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the acceptance of a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) 
application by Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby). He is concerned about the 
due diligence that Westerby carried out on the overseas financial advisor which had given 
Mr R advice to switch to the SIPP from his existing pension arrangements and make 
investments in it, as well as who submitted the application for the SIPP on Mr Rs behalf. 
This business, Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana), did not hold the correct regulatory 
permissions to give personal pensions advice in the UK. So, Mr R complains that the 
application for the SIPP should not have been accepted by Westerby and he holds it 
responsible for the loss he has suffered.
What happened
Westerbys relationship with Mr R started in or around February 2014 when it received his 
application for a SIPP. On the application form, Mr Rs financial advisor was noted as 
Richard Fletcher of Abana. Abana is a financial advisory firm based in Portugal. In 
December 2013, Abana passported into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) 
branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 
12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. This meant it was authorised to carry out some 
regulated activities in the UK between those dates. I will discuss this in my findings below.
Mr R held three personal pension plans. In early 2014, he says that he was introduced to 
Richard Fletcher and Abana by a financial adviser. Mr Fletcher visited him, and he 
remembers being told at the time that if he was to move into the SIPP and invest as Mr 
Fletcher advised, hed be able to take 25% of his pension at 55 and then up to 10% annually 
after retiring. He was told that his fund would grow at upwards of 10% a year. Mr R says he 
was led to believe there was no risk. He was told that one of the investments (which he 
describes as the Swiss asset) was a strong company and that the other, the Kijani fund, only 
dealt in commodities which it was selling before it had even bought them. Ive described 
these investments in more detail below.
Mr R has described himself as a moderately cautious investor and wasnt comfortable with 
much risk. On the advice from Richard Fletcher of Abana, Mr R transferred just under 
£100,000 of his money to a SIPP with Westerby.
A SIPP application form was completed on 13 February 2014. Section 9 of the application 
asked, Do you have a financial advisor? This was answered yes and the details of 
Richard Fletcher of Abana were added. It was also instructed that initial commission of 5% of 
the switched value should be paid to Richard Fletcher.
An application form for an investment platform called E-Portfolio Solutions, provided by a 
business called Asset Management International (AMI), was also completed. This 
recorded the financial advisor as being Abana. Mr Fletcher, in his capacity as a financial 
adviser with Abana, signed a declaration on the application on 13 February 2014. The 
application was signed by Mr R on the same date. The form was signed by Westerby, as 
trustees of Mr Rs SIPP, on 18 June 2014, after the switches from Mr Rs existing 
pensions had been completed.
Once the transfers had taken place, the cash in the SIPP was transferred to the E-
Portfolio platform. Some of the money was invested in the Kijani Commodity Fund, and 
some in the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF). Both these funds had 
initially been based in Mauritius (with one later moving to the Cayman Islands). 
On 11 November 2014, Westerby wrote to Mr R about his investments. It explained that 
the funds Mr R held would, following a Policy Statement from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA) in August 2014, be considered non-standard assets. It explained that 
such assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only permitted such assets 
where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated financial advisor. It further 
explained that the investments might be higher risk than Mr R originally considered, and 
it was therefore imperative that Mr R discuss this with his financial advisor. It provided 
the details of Abana.
Westerbys letter also said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission had issued 
enforcement orders against the Kijani Fund and the SAMAIF. It said it had not established 
what the enforcement orders related to, but that no new investment in the funds was 
permitted. Westerby asked Mr R to confirm hed sought regulated financial advice from 
Abana and whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments or for Westerby to 
attempt to sell them. Mr R provided confirmation that he wanted to keep the investments 
on 14 November 2014.
On or around 23 June 2015, Westerby sent a letter to Mr R providing an update on 
the Kijani fund. The letter explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by a firm of accountants. The fund 
managers had taken the decision to liquidate all assets and return client 
investments within 30 to 60 days.
This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it had not been able to 
ascertain who made the statement originally. Enquiries were being made of 
AMI.
Some investors were still waiting for the settlement of deals placed more than 90 
days ago. So, if Mr R required funds there may be at least a 90-day delay.
It strongly recommended that Mr R contact his regulated financial advisor and 
reminded him the investments were non-standard and so carried a higher degree 
of risk.
Abana customers were being referred to a new business called Abana FS Ltd, 
which was directly authorised by the FCA.
Later that same month, I understand that Abana wrote to its customers explaining that 
it wasnt authorised to provide the advice it had given them. It also explained:The letter from Westerby [the June 2015 one I mention above] states that we are in 
the process of novating (moving over) all of our clients to Abana FS Ltd (Abana 
FS). I wish to clarify this matter by stating that this is not the case. We do not 
consider Abana FS to be suitably independent to provide advice to you about your 
SIPP.
Westerby sent Mr R further updates over the following months. In July 2015, Mr R was 
told the Kijani fund had been suspended (the repayment of the investment earlier 
mentioned did not materialise) and the business ultimately behind AMI and the E-Portfolio 
platform had had its licence suspended by the Mauritian Financial Services Commission. 
He was also told the SAMAIF had been suspended. In September 2015 it was confirmed 
that the investigation of the Kijani fund had discovered it had not made investments as it 
purported to. A petition to wind it up had been issued, with the accountants being 
appointed by the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority over the company that owned the 
fund. The E-Portfolio Platform was suspended.
On 23 December 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr R to say that the E-Portfolio Platform was 
no longer suspended, and that redemption could be requested for some of the funds. The 
Kijani Fund was illiquid and remained suspended, but the SAMAIF fund was expected to 
become liquid in the near future. A redemption form was enclosed. Mr R signed this on 18 
February 2016 and returned it to Westerby, whom it reached on 23 February 2016. 
Westerby sent the redemption instructions to E-Portfolio the same day, although by that 
time it had become clear that SAMAIF wouldnt become tradeable again and its value was 
transferred to the suspended portfolio with Kijani.
Westerby was only able to redeem £360 odd of Mr Rs investment. Westerby has said 
that if Mr R had sent back the redemption form earlier, it would have been likely to recover 
more of his money. But Mr R says that he was advised by both Westerby and Richard 
Fletcher in phone calls at the time that SAMAIF would start to trade imminently. So, thats 
why he didnt return the form until February.
The situation with both funds has not improved, and Mr Rs investments in them, made 
on the E-Portfolio platform, currently have no realisable value.
Mr R complained to Westerby in March 2018. In its May 2018 final response letter to 
Mr Rs complaint, and its subsequent submissions to this Service, Westerby said, in 
summary:
The advice to Mr R to establish a SIPP came from Abana. This is a Portuguese 
regulated firm authorised to operate in the UK.
Westerby accepted the SIPP via Abana in good faith, based on the information 
available to it at the time. It says that it checked the FCA register and the 
Portuguese register and that there werent any further independent checks that 
could be carried out to establish that Abana didnt have the necessary 
permissions to advise on pensions in the UK.
Westerby entered into an intermediary terms of business with Abana in which it 
warranted that it held and would maintain the necessary permissions to advise 
on SIPPs and the underlying investments.
Mr R was advised by AMI to invest in the E-Portfolio and Westerby was given 
an explicit instruction to make the investments in the Kijani fund and SAMAIF.
The investments were made on a regulated platform. At the time the funds were 
traded daily and accessible from other platforms. They werent esoteric and at 
the time they met the FCAs definition of standard assets. No due diligence 
could have identified underlying problems at the time.When enforcement action was taken, Westerby contacted Mr R to tell him the 
assets were high risk. On Abanas advice, he opted to stay in the funds.
If Mr R had chosen to redeem his holdings at the time, it is likely that he would 
have got a lot of his money back. Westerby couldnt provide that specific advice 
to Mr R as it wasnt regulated by the FCA to do so. Thats why it told him to 
seek advice from Abana.
A review of Abanas advice by an independent specialist found Abana to have 
been responsible for providing poor advice. Abana offered to pay redress to Mr 
R and others for this, for which it remains responsible.
Mr Rs complaint against Abana should be pursued rather than this complaint 
against Westerby. Westerby also provided our service with documentation to 
assist with our investigation of the Abana complaint
Westerby and its solicitors have mentioned some additional points in their submissions to 
this service. I dont intend to set them all out in detail, as we have received a number of 
lengthy letters relevant to not only this complaint but others that weve been dealing with at 
this Service. In summary though, Westerby has said:
It carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business that was 
introduced by it. Abana was authorised and regulated in Portugal by the Instituto 
de Seguros de Portugal (ISP) under reference 412378472.
It verified on the ISPs online register that Abana held passported authorisations 
into the United Kingdom for both Life (insurance) and Non-Life activities. It also 
verified that Abana was authorised by the FCA, under reference 597069.
It put in place a Terms of business with Abana which required Abana to ensure 
that all necessary permissions were maintained.
It notes that Section 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) 
allows for an agreement that would otherwise have been rendered unenforceable 
under Section 27 to be enforced if the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable 
in the circumstances of the case. One of the issues that is to be considered under 
this Section is whether it knew that Abana was (in carrying on the regulated 
activities of advising on pension transfers) contravening the general prohibition.
It considers that it acted in good faith by accepting business that was 
introduced by Abana, and that this would place it in the scope of Section 28 in 
Mr Rs case.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She thought the fact Abana was 
based abroad should have made it stand out when Westerby was carrying out its due 
diligence checks. She said the entry for Abana on the FCA register would have shown that 
Abana was only authorised to carry out insurance or reinsurance mediation in the UK. Our 
investigator said that personal pensions advice is not an activity covered by the IMD and 
that Westerby, as a SIPP operator, ought to have had the knowledge and expertise to 
understand what permissions were required, and what services Abana was allowed to 
provide.
Our investigator concluded that as Westerby shouldnt have accepted Mr Rs SIPP 
application from Abana, it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr R for 
his financial loss. She set out how she thought this loss should be assessed.
Westerby didnt agree. Its solicitors have sent us further lengthy submissions. A lot of these 
are similar to those made in other complaints against Westerby (with similar facts) that are 
being dealt with at this Service. So, my summary below is consolidated from what has been 
said on this complaint and others. Westerby has said:The investigators view that Westerby didnt act with due care and diligence 
flowed from her view that it should have known Abana wasnt authorised to 
advise on pensions. Westerby disagrees and thinks it did carry out proper due 
diligence.
Westerby did carry out the searches the investigator thought it should have made 
before accepting Mr Rs SIPP. It searched the FCA register in May 2013 and 
established that Abana was EEA-authorised. It has a screenshot of the register 
which doesnt include a passports section or make any mention of restrictions on 
Abanas permissions. Acting reasonably, Westerby couldnt have found details of 
the passport restrictions from the FCA register at the time.
It has provided a copy of a report by the Complaints Commissioner, which 
Westerby thought supported its view that information in the FCA register was 
limited.
Knowing that Abanas country of origin was Portugal, Westerby also 
searched the website of the Portuguese regulator. This showed that Abana 
was authorised to undertake both life and non-life business in the UK. There 
was nothing to put Westerby on notice that Abana wasnt authorised to advise 
UK investors.
It was entirely reasonable for Westerby to rely on the entries in the FCA register 
and the Portuguese register.
Abanas website said it was a specialist in compliance services to 
international financial advisers and also gave pension advice.
Having carried out proper due diligence in May 2013, Westerby then followed 
good practice in setting up a terms-of-business agreement with Abana. In this 
agreement, Abana warranted it was suitably authorised in relation to the sale of 
the SIPP. There was no failure by Westerby to act with due care and diligence. 
And it thinks it was reasonable for it to rely on what Abana told it and warranted in 
the agreement. It does not think those terms and conditions could be said to be 
generic.
COBS 11.2.19(2) states that a firm satisfies its obligations to a client if it 
executes an order following specific instructions from a client.
As the investigator acknowledged, Westerby didnt provide Mr R with any 
advice. When Mr R signed the SIPP application he agreed he was solely 
responsible for all investment decisions.
Mr Rs loss has been caused by the advice he received from Abana. The FCA 
investigated Abana and third-party compliance experts reviewed the advice Mr R 
was given. It was found the advice was unsuitable, and if Abana had provided 
redress as was proposed Mr R would have been compensated for his loss. Its 
neither fair nor reasonable to expect Westerby to compensate Mr R in these 
circumstances.
It cant understand why this service hasnt pursued Abana in respect of the 
redress its failed to pay Mr R.Also, Mr R contributed to his own loss. Westerby wrote to him in 2014 when it 
became aware there were problems with some of the funds hed invested in. He 
could have chosen to switch into different funds if hed wanted to, but didnt do 
this.
Westerby is unhappy with how Mr Rs complaint has been framed. It thinks this 
service has encouraged him to complain about Westerby as his original 
complaint was about Abana.
It was acting on an execution only basis. It wasnt required to investigate the 
permissions of third-party advisers. The investments were permitted investments 
and it was not part of its contractual relationship with Mr R to offer any advice 
and it was not permitted to do so.
The FCA has not raised any concerns with Westerby about how it acted, even 
when it raised concerns with the regulator about Abana in 2015. So, if the FCA 
has not found any wrongdoing by Westerby, this sits at odds with recent 
ombudsman decisions.
Westerby thinks that if it had rejected Mr Rs SIPP application, hed have just 
gone to another SIPP provider to which Abana was referring clients. And 
Westerby wouldnt have been able to contact Mr R if it hadnt accepted the 
SIPP. So, hed still have suffered the same losses.
Westerby doesnt think its fair that it should be responsible for Mr Rs loss 
where Abana purposefully and intentionally acted outside of its permissions and 
should be solely responsible for those losses. It thinks this service should be 
pursuing Abana, rather than Westerby and that its not fair to take into account 
Westerbys geographical location and the ease to hold it responsible.
Westerby says that Abana was actively calling clients in 2014 to advise them 
to stay in the funds. So, Westerbys reference to Mr R taking advice from Abana 
in its letter of 11 November 2014 had no bearing on the outcome of his opting to 
stay in the funds.
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
We have issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a 
SIPP application from Abana (the published decision). That final decision has been 
published on our website under reference - DRN7770418. 
That decision features the same key point to that in Mr Rs case  namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on 
that case to those it has made on Mr Rs case and its latest submissions on this case are 
made with reference to the published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. Westerby subsequently reviewed Mr Rs 
complaint, but said it was not prepared to change its position. It sent us a letter detailing its 
review, and a further letter setting out general submissions. I have summarised these below. Westerbys additional submissions 
In its letters setting out its general submissions, Westerby said, in summary: 
The published decision confirms this service contacted the FCA about whether top 
up permissions appear on the FCA Register and the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
However, there has been no disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA whom 
this service communicated with, records of such communications with the FCA such 
as correspondence, file notes or attendance notes, details of the FCA contacts role 
at the FCA, whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013 and had 
knowledge of it, and what the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is 
based upon. An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 is not proof of 
what was actually on the Register at the relevant time. We should now provide full 
disclosure of this information.  Not to do so is procedurally unfair. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the agreement that Abana had the 
necessary permissions. It does not accept that it ought to have been reasonably 
aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the statement in the agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which was not available on the 
Register would not have been provided to Westerby yet says that if it had contacted 
the FCA directly, the FCA would have been able to confirm permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. In response to this the 
FCA confirmed that, in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and there was no requirement under the IMD to 
display more detailed activities. The FCA confirmed any further information not 
displayed on the Register would have been considered confidential information under 
section 348 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) which prohibits 
disclosure of this information. 
 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. It is unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was not part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisers. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides:
Where a complainant makes complaints against more than one respondent in 
respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine that the 
respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate.
The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment, as well as causation. Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana, the ombudsman decided in 
the published decision that Westerby should compensate for the full extent of the 
consumers financial losses. 
The complaints against Abana ought to have been decided first as the Independent 
Financial Adviser involved in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints against 
Westerby and Abana ought to have been decided together. Instead, we dealt with the 
complaint against Westerby first, which has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. 
We have found against Abana in several complaints where a different SIPP operator 
was used and ordered Abana to pay redress yet have not pursued, or invited the 
complainants to pursue, that SIPP operator.
It is accepted that a "Permission" page existed on the Register at the relevant time, 
however it is not accepted that this contained any useful information relating to 
Abana.
It does not hold a copy of the "Permission" page for Abana. However, it has been 
able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms from the 
relevant time period. In every case the permission page simply shows "No matches 
found". It has no reason to expect that Abana's permission page would not have 
shown the same, and it is likely that copies of this page were not retained as there 
was no useful information.
The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation". It is beyond dispute that the firm was able to carry 
out this activity, but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was always completed. So, 
it was not unreasonable to conclude that the Register simply did not record Abanas 
permissions.
The Register is known to have historically had significant errors, and the FCA itself 
recognises that there can be errors on the Register; the Legal Information section of 
the Register in 2012 and 2013 stated that:
We try to ensure that the information on this site is correct, but we do not give any
express or implied warranty as to its accuracy. We do not accept any liability for error
or omission.
All Abana's clients (including those who, like Mr R, had originally been advised by 
Abana, and later novated to Abana) had two opportunities to mitigate losses:
It wrote to all clients who held investments in the Kijani fund and the SAMAIF 
fund in November 2014. This letter drew the clients' attention to regulatory 
enforcement actions against the funds.
It wrote to all such clients again in December 2015 to inform them that there was 
an opportunity to redeem approximately half of their funds.
It remains its position that the clients, including Mr R, had a responsibility (under the
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions) to 
take appropriate action to safeguard their own funds.In Mr R 's case, there is no record of him having contacted Westerby to request a 
redemption following its letter of December 2015 until February 2016. So, it considers 
Mr R to be responsible for at least half of the losses in SAMAIF which it thinks could 
have been redeemed at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
As Ive noted above, Mr R complained to Westerby that it had failed to undertake sufficient 
due diligence on the funds before allowing them into his SIPP. I appreciate that Westerby 
thinks that this service prompted Mr R to make that complaint. But I havent seen any 
evidence of that. 
Mr R complained directly to Westerby in March 2018, having enquired of us whether he 
could also bring a complaint against it, having been prompted to do so by other investors 
with whom he was in contact. That complaint was referred to us in May 2018 after Mr R 
received Westerbys final response letter.
I appreciate that Westerby thinks that this complaint should really lie against Abana. But 
where a number of regulated entities may have responsibility for a consumers loss, it is 
worth noting that The FCA Handbook DISP 3.5.2G provides that this service may inform the 
complainant that it might be appropriate to complain against some other respondent. We 
have conversations with lay customers every day about whom their complaint should be 
brought. And whilst I dont believe that to have happened here, it would in any event be 
something that our investigators would be expected to consider in the normal course 
anyway.
Mr R originally complained to Abana in May 2017 about the advice that he received from it 
and that complaint was escalated to this service. But Abana ultimately went out of business 
and wasnt in a position to satisfy any award that we might have made against it. So that 
complaint was closed in July 2021, when Mr R withdrew it. And we didnt issue an opinion or 
view on it. Westerby has similarly noted that Abana isnt able to satisfy any indemnity that it 
provided it under the terms of business between them. I am also not aware that Mr R has 
received any compensation from Abana direct or from the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, its appropriate to take an 
inquisitorial approach. And, ultimately, what Ill be looking at here is whether Westerby took 
reasonable care, acted with due diligence, and treated Mr R fairly, in accordance with his 
best interests. And what I think is fair and reasonable in the light of that. So, I am going to 
focus on what I think is key  which, for the reasons Ill explain, I consider to be the checks 
Westerby carried out on Abana before accepting business from it.
As a preliminary point I should also say the purpose of this decision is to set out my findings 
on what is fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to 
offer a point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint.  And so, whilst I have considered all the submissions made by both parties, I have focussed 
here on the points I believe to be key to my decision on what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In response to the investigators opinion, Westerby has asked for all the information Ive 
relied upon in reaching my decision. Westerby already has access to this as it provided the 
information relevant to this complaint when we made our file request of it. Any other 
information Ive relied on has been taken from other decisions of this service and 
correspondence between Westerby and my colleagues, all of which Westerby has access to 
already.
Relevant considerations
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It 
cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for 
new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and 
indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-
based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a 
code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as 
those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Rs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment.  The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.  But to be 
clear, I do not say this means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I 
have taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Rs case.I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in the High Court judgment, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
There are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr 
Adams and the issues in Mr Rs complaint.  The breaches alleged by Mr Adams were 
summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight 
noted, he was not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP 
agreed to accept the store pods investment into its SIPP. 
The facts of this case are also different, and I need to construe the duties Westerby owed to 
Mr R under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Rs case. 
To confirm, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Rs case, including Westerbys role in the 
transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I do not say that Westerby was under any obligation to 
advise Mr R on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which did not have 
the required permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same thing as advising Mr R on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP. Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Rs case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (the FSA)) has issued a 
number of publications which remind SIPP operators of their obligations, and which set out 
how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles, namely:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 thematic review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly thought it was 
good practice to do so, at the very least. Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact that at least one of the 
publications post-dates the events that took place in relation to Mr Rs complaint, mean that 
the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at the time of the relevant 
events. Although the Dear CEO letter was published after the events subject to this 
complaint, the Principles that underpin it existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in 
accordance with the Principles. 
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In this and other similar complaints with us, Westerby has said that Section 20 of FSMA 
(s.20) provides that an authorised person acting without permission doesnt make the 
transaction void or unenforceable and generally doesnt give rise to a right of action for 
breach of statutory duty. It says that this is the opposite of Section 27 of FSMA (s.27) which 
allows for the voidance of contracts where a party is acting without authorisation. So, it says 
s.20 explicitly shields authorised parties from the actions of another authorised party (such 
as Abana) that is in breach of their own requirements.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of s.20 and s.27 of 
FSMA. But to be clear, with regards to the contents of s.20, its not my role to determine 
whether an offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal 
action and Im not making a finding here on whether Mr Rs application is void or 
unenforceable. Rather, Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the 
Principles and the publications listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Rs SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations to act with due 
skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly 
and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the 
publications listed above to provide an indication of what Westerby could have done to 
comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing. So taking account of the factual context of this case it is my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R) it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Rs business from it. 
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. 
And I accept that it did undertake some checks. However, the question I need to consider in 
this complaint is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its regulatory 
obligations, identified that Abana did not in fact have the top up permissions from the FCA 
it required to be giving advice on and arranging personal pensions in the UK, and whether 
Westerby should therefore not have accepted Mr Rs application from it. 
The regulatory position 
Abana is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade de 
Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF). 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and
reinsurance mediation are defined as:
3. Insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding
such contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts,
in particular in the event of a claim.
4. Reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation
Directive for Long-term insurance business it is stated (on page 7):
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by
us and are subject to our regulation.
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Rs SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2): 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:This will include self-invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-standing 
voluntary contribution schemes).
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order.  It did not 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Rs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 Activities 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 
(see Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments are not covered by the Insurance Mediation 
Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Rs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top up permission under 
Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top up permissions from 
the FCA to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its IMD passport rights.
The relevant rules regarding top up permissions could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at February 2014):
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G to 
SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations 
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at February 
2014) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (which I set out above) was readily 
available in 2014 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question did not fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, guidance and legislation I have referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should therefore 
have known - or have checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal that was 
EEA-authorised needed to have top up permissions to give advice and make arrangements 
in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top up permissions had to be granted by 
the UK regulator, the FCA.
In my view, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Abana required the relevant top up permissions 
from the FCA so that it could carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. 
Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it could not 
and should not reasonably have concluded that Abana did not have the required top up 
permissions. I have carefully considered all Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The RegisterIm satisfied that in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
therefore consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register 
entry for Abana in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I think it fair and reasonable to say 
that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on Abanas Register entry should have 
included a review of all the relevant information available.  
I have carefully considered the format of the Register around when Mr Rs application was 
submitted by Abana. The third-party report on the Register provided by Westerby during the 
investigation of the complaint which was the subject of the published decision is helpful on 
the question of the format of the Register around the time of Mr Rs SIPP application. The 
report includes the following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 
2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry (i.e. Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, etc) is a hyperlink to another page of the entry on the Register. So, this 
screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would have included both 
Permission and Passports pages (amongst other pages). It is therefore reasonable to 
conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register in or around the time Mr 
Rs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2014 included pages which provided 
information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions. 
And I note Westerby accepts Abanas entry would have included a permission page at the 
relevant time. 
Westerbys position, in short, is that the permission page was blank, and the register entry 
could not therefore be used to check a firms permissions. 
The report provided by Westerby on the complaint, which was the subject of the published 
decision, helpfully, provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms which 
were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Rs SIPP application or earlier. The below 
example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an incoming 
EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed no matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for EEA 
firms around the time of Mr Rs application did include a page with information on a firms 
permissions, even if all it recorded is that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions 
from the FCA).  I note Westerby accepts that the entry for Abana likely showed no matches 
found in the permission page of the Register entry at the relevant time. 
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows no matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
All of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Rs application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain a page labelled Permission 
and this page is where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm did not have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission page on 
their Register entry would state no matches found (as there were no permissions to 
display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response to our query, the FCA confirmed that top up permissions do 
appear on the Register under the Permission page, and that the FCA understands the 
same information was available on the Register in 2013.  In other words, the FCAs 
response to our question accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been 
demonstrated by the evidence thats available in this complaint. I note Westerby has said 
more information should be provided about this. Westerby has been provided with the FCAs 
response to our question and has had ample opportunity (on this complaint and other similar 
complaints under our consideration) to provide further information, expert reports and 
submissions on the format of the Register at the relevant time. I am therefore satisfied I can 
fairly determine this complaint now and Westerby does not need to be provided with further 
information on this point. 
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats available in this 
complaint. So, my decision would still be the same without the FCAs response to our 
question.
To summarise my conclusions so far, I am satisfied:
That in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business 
from it. And it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality 
of Abanas Register entry in the circumstances.
The format of the Register in 2013 did include a Permission page and it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register at the time of Mr Rs application would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
If Westerby did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, it appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I do not have a record of the 
Permission page for Abana then. So, we have no evidence of what specific information was 
available on this page for Abana at the relevant time. However, in light of the evidence Ive 
set out above, I am satisfied that there would have been a permission page available on 
Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously failed to contain any information 
on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (i.e. it had been left entirely blank), 
Westerby ought to have taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. 
To be clear, I do not accept that information about a firms permissions was simply not 
available for an online user in 2013/14. 
Westerby has, in previous submissions, referred to reports from the Complaints 
Commissioner both of which highlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. In other 
submissions it says the Register is known to have historically had significant errors, and the 
FCA itself recognises that there can be errors on the Register  it refers to a disclaimer 
shown on the Register which says the FCA provided no warranty as to its accuracy. I have 
considered the submissions Westerby has made on this point. Whilst I appreciate there have been criticisms of the Register, and it may on occasion have 
contained errors, I am satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Abana needed 
permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for personal pensions in 
the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that 
Abana held the required permissions. And, for the reasons I have set out above, I am 
satisfied that Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time would have included a page 
with information on its permissions. And, if this page had not set out any information (it had 
erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, should 
not have accepted Mr Rs application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to 
clarify the correct position on the firms permissions.    
On this point Westerby says that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. It says the published 
decision concedes that information which was not available on the Register would not have 
been provided to Westerby. 
I accept the FCA will not (and would not) confirm details about a firm that are not available 
on the public register. However, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that top up 
permissions are something which are recorded on the FCAs public register, and that this 
was also the case in 2014 when Westerby accepted Mr Rs application from Abana. So, 
although we do not have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas Permission page 
in 2014, if it had erroneously been left blank, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude the 
FCA would have been able to confirm the position that Abana did not  in fact  have the 
required permissions, as this was information that ought to have been publicly available, on 
the Register. So, I am not persuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point and I am 
satisfied contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper route open to it to verify Abanas 
permissions before accepting business from it.     
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm Abanas 
permissions because the Register did not contain the relevant details, I do not think the 
restriction it refers to on what the FCA could confirm would have prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Abana did not have any top-up permissions. That was a matter of 
public record. So, the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Abanas entry on the Register, I still do not think 
it is fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations - for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Rs application from Abana 
in those circumstances. Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. If there was no information available 
or accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of 
Abana, then Westerby ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas 
permissions, or it ought to have declined to accept any applications from Abana until such a 
time as it could verify the correct position on Abanas permissions. 
Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Abanas permissions at 
all  a position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence - I think it is fair and 
reasonable to say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed 
with accepting business from Abana in those circumstances. In my opinion, it was not 
reasonable, and not in-line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with 
accepting business from Abana if the position was not clear. 
So, to summarise, I am satisfied:It was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Abana if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held. 
In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Abana held any top up permissions. And, as I am satisfied this would have been a 
matter of public record, I am content that the FCA would have been able to confirm 
whether or not Abana held any permissions. 
Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Abanas permissions, Westerby 
should simply have declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it? 
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in 
signing the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required. 
Westerby has referred to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the 
FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on factual information 
provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process (TR/16/1, Para 
5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to make.
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others:
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it 
to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information. 
In the Agreement Abana warranted that it had the required permissions to introduce SIPPs 
business. However, the Agreement appears to be a document of general application drafted 
in generic terms and has not been specifically amended to refer to Abanas own 
circumstances. It does not refer to, nor require either party to confirm or warrant the 
accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process. 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial Services 
Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments where 
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable Laws. In my view, this does not amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on. The activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes is 
not mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which is an 
ambiguous term. And the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and does 
not refer specifically to top up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it has 
top up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, I am not satisfied on the evidence 
provided that Westerby did establish what top up permissions Abana required to be 
arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it requested, and 
received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. I am also not satisfied, for 
the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in seeking to rely on 
the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the required top up 
permissions. 
In any event, it is my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Abana had the required top up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent checks 
on Abanas permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have been privy 
to information which did not reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions. So, 
in failing to take this step, I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby did not 
do enough to establish whether Abana had the permissions it required.   
So, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the 
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on it generally. I note Westerby has referred to the 
FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook, and I have 
considered this question with those details in mind. However, I am not satisfied there was 
any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on Agreement, for much the 
same reasons as I have given above in relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).  
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I do not think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. It has 
told us it checked the Register. It has also told us its procedure was to check the Register 
every time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time adviser fees are 
paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the 
FSAs 2009 thematic review report. That is a view I share. So Westerby should not have  and did not  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as 
mentioned above, for all the reasons I have given, I think Westerbys check of the Register 
ought to have led to the conclusion that Abana did not have the required top up permissions 
(i.e. if the information on Abanas Permission page had been correctly recorded), or in the 
alternative, that the Register did not record the information on Abanas Permission page in 
order for Westerby to confirm the position one way or the other (for example, if the 
permission page had erroneously been left blank). This means that either Westerby ought to 
have become aware of information which did not reconcile with what Abana had told it about 
its permissions in any meetings and the Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory 
obligation to undertake further enquiries to independently check Abanas permissions, and 
by failing to do so, it did not meet the requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP 
operator.
Anomalous features 
In my view, Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr R was 
taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer 
from conventional pension schemes into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the money 
transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius and/or the Cayman Islands. The 
investments involved were unusual, and specialised. And the chances of them being suitable 
investments for a significant portion of a retail investors pension were very small. So, given 
the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from Mr R as carrying a 
significant risk of consumer detriment. And it should have been aware that the role of the 
advisor was likely to be a very important one in the circumstances  emphasising the need 
for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the 
correct permissions to be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
I do not expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr R 
 and I accept it could not do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr R fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the points I have made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, I am of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas 
permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above point only to 
highlight the importance of carrying out this check. 
In conclusion 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana did not have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either event, it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business I 
have outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Rs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised across its submissions are factors which mitigate its decision to accept     
Mr Rs application from Abana.
I am therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
should not have accepted Mr Rs SIPP application from Abana. 
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr R compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? 
I am satisfied that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Rs application from Abana, and 
explained to Mr R why it was not able to do so, Mr R wouldnt have continued to accept or 
act on pensions advice provided by Abana (as he would then have been aware it was not 
able to provide such advice). And I think it very unlikely advice from an authorised business 
would have resulted in Mr R taking the same course of action. I think it reasonable to say Mr 
R would have sought out a business with the required permissions and that business would 
have given suitable advice. 
If Mr R had sought advice from a different advisor, I think its more likely than not that the 
advice wouldve been to stay in his existing pensions. I think its unlikely that another 
advisor, acting properly, would have advised Mr R to transfer away from his existing 
pensions in the way that Abana and Mr Fletcher did. 
Westerby has said that if it had known Abana didnt have the required permissions, it would 
never have accepted any business from it in the first place. So, it thinks it wouldnt have had 
the opportunity to tell Mr R of this. But thats not what happened here as it was accepting 
business from Abana, including Mr Rs. If it hadnt though, any other SIPP provider acting 
diligently should also not have accepted Mr Rs SIPP. And if acting properly, would also 
have warned him, as I consider Westerby should have, about Abanas lack of permissions. 
So, the loss still wouldnt have occurred.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr R proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investment he was making was high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order perhaps to take advantage of a cash incentive or 
something else offered by Abana. I am satisfied that Mr R, unlike Mr Adams, was not eager 
to complete the transaction for reasons other than securing the best pension for himself. By 
his own admission at the time, he was a moderately cautious investor and wasnt 
comfortable with much risk. Hed been led to believe by Mr Fletcher and Abana that there 
was little to no risk in these investments. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from 
that of Mr Adams.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Rs application from Abana, the transaction would not still have gone 
ahead. In any event, the point should be made that Mr R should not have had the option of 
proceeding with an application with Westerby as, for all the reasons I have set out, I think the 
only fair and reasonable course of action open to Westerby in the circumstances was to 
refuse to accept the application. And I dont think any other SIPP operator, acting fairly and 
reasonably, should have accepted the application from Abana either.
The involvement of Abana
In this decision, I am considering Mr Rs complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr R to switch to a SIPP and make unsuitable 
investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when considering whether to 
accept Mr Rs application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby was not required to ensure Abana complied with that 
responsibility. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. 
And this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it had the regulatory 
permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply with these obligations 
in this case. 
I am satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in 
accordance with good practice, and its regulatory obligations, by independently checking 
Abanas permissions before accepting business from it, Westerby would not have done any 
SIPP business with Abana. 
I am also satisfied that if Mr R had been told Abana was acting outside its permissions in 
giving pensions advice, he would not have continued to accept or act on advice from that 
business. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, it is my view that 
it is fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to identify that Abana did 
not have the required top up permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on 
personal pensions in the UK. 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). 
As I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr R fairly. 
The starting point, therefore, is that it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr R 
compensation for the loss he has suffered because of Westerbys failings. I have, however, 
carefully considered if there is any reason why it would not be fair to ask Westerby to 
compensate Mr R for his loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable 
in full or in part.  And, for the following reasons, I consider it appropriate and fair in the 
circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr R to the full extent of the financial losses he 
has suffered due to Westerbys failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr R to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Rs loss. However, it is also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr R would not have come about in the first place, and the 
loss he suffered could have been avoided.I want to make clear that I have carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. It is my view that it is appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby 
to compensate Mr R to the full extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, I 
am not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby is liable to pay to Mr R.  
I do, however, think it would be fair for Westerby to have the option to take an assignment of 
any rights of action Mr R has against Abana before compensation is paid. Redress could in 
turn be made contingent upon Mr Rs acceptance of this term of settlement.
It will then remain open to Westerby to seek compensation from Abana if it thinks there are 
grounds for it to recover some or all the losses it is being held responsible for. 
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby says it wrote to Mr R to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise around half of his investment value. It says Mr R had 
a responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and so should be 
responsible for at least half the losses he has suffered. 
I have carefully considered this point but do not think it is fair for any reduction to be made to 
fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr R to mitigate his loss.
I dont think it fair to say Mr R should have made a redemption request when Westerby wrote 
to him in November 2014. That letter required Mr R to seek advice, and urged him to contact 
his financial advisor, Abana. It seems Mr R did this and was advised to keep the 
investments. In these circumstances, I am of the view that it is not fair to say Mr R ought to 
have acted differently.
I am also of the view that Westerby did not act in accordance with its regulatory obligations 
in sending this letter. On the complaints about introductions from Abana, Westerby says its 
process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it received an application to 
open a SIPP, and every time an advisors renumeration was to be paid. So, by the time 
Westerby wrote to Mr R in November 2014, it would have had many opportunities to 
discover that Abana did not have the top up permissions it needed to give advice or make 
arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
For Westerby to have suggested that Mr R seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds he had invested in had come to light, is a further failing of its regulatory obligations and 
the requirement to treat Mr R fairly. In fact, it should have alerted Mr R to the fact that Abana 
did not have the required permissions and have suggested he seek independent advice from 
a regulated advisor as a matter of urgency. 
Westerby says Mr R did not request a redemption of his investments until February 2016, 
and he ought to have acted earlier. Mr R says that he was still being advised by both 
Westerby and Abana over the phone that one of the funds may begin trading again soon. 
So, its easy to see why he didnt do anything immediately. In any event, in my view, it is 
unlikely a redemption request would have been successful anyway. In relation to the Kijani fund, liquidators were appointed on 19 June 2015. Westerbys June 
2015 letter notes that some investors had, at that time, made redemption requests over 90 
days ago but not received any money. And I note that in the complaint which was the subject 
of the published decision, Westerby summarised the situation with the Kijani fund in October 
2015 as suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will 
come back. 
So, I think there is insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in relation to 
the Kijani fund, after issues with the fund were first highlighted in late 2014, would have been 
successful. 
I further note the 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF suggests work to begin trading is still 
ongoing. And I also again note that in June 2016 Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the fund,
however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy of their latest update is enclosed.
This suggests SAMAIF was still suspended at this time. So, I have also not seen sufficient 
evidence to show a redemption request made in relation to the SAMAIF would have been 
successful either  it seems the SAMAIF was suspended for a considerable period of time, 
and it is not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. 
This is also consistent with the published decision, which notes the amount paid to the SIPP 
in that case likely came from another investment rather than the Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as 
both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period in that case. 
So, I have also not seen sufficient evidence to show a redemption request would have been 
successful even if it had been made earlier. 
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr R to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting Mr Rs 
SIPP application from Abana.
I have also considered the upset and inconvenience Mr R has been caused because of 
the problems hes had with his pension. This situation must have been very worrying for 
him, particularly as he is a cautious investor who didnt have much appetite for risk. If 
Westerby hadnt accepted his SIPP application in the first place, the trouble hes 
experienced would have been avoided. So, Ive included a sum of £500 compensation 
for how this has made him feel in the redress that Ive provided for below.
Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the value of Mr Rs pensions, 
if he had not transferred, with the current value of his SIPP. In summary, Westerby should:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Rs previous pension plans, as at the date 
of this this decision, if they had not been transferred to the SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Rs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Rs share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.4. Pay an amount into Mr Rs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
5. Pay Mr R £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused 
due to the problems with his pension.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, as mentioned, it should have the option of payment 
of this redress being contingent upon Mr R assigning any claim he may have against 
Abana, to Westerby  but only in so far as Mr R is compensated here. The terms of the 
assignment should require Westerby to account to Mr R for any amount it subsequently 
recovers against Abana that exceeds the loss paid to Mr R.
I have explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation set out at 1-4 above 
in further detail below:
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Rs previous pension plans if they had 
not been transferred into the SIPP.
To do this, Westerby should work out the likely value of Mr Rs pensions as at the date of 
this decision, had he left them where they were instead of transferring them to the SIPP. 
Westerby should ask Mr Rs former pension providers to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not transferred his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index (and prior to 1 March 2017 the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return 
Index) should be used instead. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The calculation should take account of the value of any cash held in the SIPP currently, and 
any contributions or withdrawals made by Mr R. Any existing value of the investments should 
be covered by the next step. 
2. Obtain the actual transfer value of Mr Rs SIPP, including any outstanding charges.
The total sum calculated in 1. minus the sum arrived at in 2. is the loss to Mr Rs pension.
3. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed.
The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2014. In order for the SIPP to 
be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP.
To do this Westerby should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value 
for the investments and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, their actual value 
should be assumed to be nil for the purposes of calculation. To be clear this would 
include their being given a nil value for the purposes of calculating the actual transfer 
value of Mr Rs SIPP in 2.Westerby may ask Mr R to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of 
any payment the SIPP may receive from these investments. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr R may receive from the 
investments and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby 
will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
4. Pay an amount into Mr Rs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
value calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out below.
I am also not certain whether, currently, Mr R can pay the redress into a pension plan. If 
he can, and assuming his doing so wouldnt give rise to any allowance or protection 
issues, it means that the compensation is able to be paid into a pension in the time until 
Mr R retires and he should be able to contribute to pension arrangements and obtain tax 
relief. If this is the case, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for the 
income tax relief Mr R could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr 
Rs marginal rate of tax. For example, if Mr R is a basic rate taxpayer, the total amount 
should be reduced by 20%.
On the other hand, Mr R may not currently be able to pay the redress into a pension plan. 
But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the total amount to be paid directly to Mr R should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Rs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For 
example, if Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance 
would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional 
allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Westerby should pay Mr R an amount equivalent to five 
years of future fees (based on the most recent years fees), to ensure its unlikely Mr R will 
have to pay further fees for holding the SIPP. Five years should allow enough time for the 
issues with the investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. 
As an alternative to this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be 
payable by Mr Rs SIPP.
interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr R or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation is not 
paid within 28 days.My final decision
For the reasons outlined, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest 
set out above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr R the balance 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby accepts the recommendation to pay 
the full loss as calculated above, Westerby should have the option of taking an assignment 
of Mr Rs rights in relation to any claim he may have against Abana, and an assignment of 
the right to any future payment Abana may make to Mr R as part of the settlement agreed 
following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby does not accept the recommendation to pay 
the full amount, any assignment of Mr Rs rights should allow him to retain all rights to the 
difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby elects to take an assignment of rights before paying compensation, it must first 
provide a draft of the assignment to Mr R for his consideration and agreement. Any 
expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment and its negotiation and approval by Mr 
R should be met by Westerby.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman