DRN-3306194
The complaint
Miss K complains about a default recorded on her credit file by Debt Managers (Services) 
Limited (DMS). 
What happened
Miss K had an account with another business (S). On 14 October 2019 S closed Miss Ks 
account and recorded a default on her credit file. Miss K has explained she made a payment 
to S on 29 October 2019 to clear the outstanding balance. On 30 October 2019 DMS 
acquired the account from S. On 11 November 2019 DMS and S wrote to Miss K to confirm 
the new arrangements. 
Miss K contacted DMS and explained the balance had already been repaid. But DMS didnt 
receive Miss Ks funds from S until May 2020.
Miss K complained and DMS issued a final response in June 2020. DMS confirmed the 
payment had been received and the default marked as satisfied on Miss Ks credit file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ks complaint. Miss K told us the default had 
caused problems for her when trying to secure credit, including a mortgage. During the 
investigation, DMS agreed to back date the date of settlement to October 2019, the date 
Miss K cleared the balance with S. Our investigator thought Debt Managers offer was fair 
but Miss K asked to appeal.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, Im only able to look at DMS actions and whether it treated Miss K fairly after it 
acquired her account from S. I understand Miss K has concerns about the way her account 
was handled and the decision to default. But DMS acquired the debt after the default was 
already applied. My decision will focus on DMS actions and whether it treated Miss K fairly. 
Miss K paid S the outstanding balance shortly before her account was sold to DMS. Miss K 
contacted DMS and explained the debt was already cleared, but it didnt receive payment 
from S until May 2020. As Ive noted above, I can only look at DMS actions so I cant say 
why it took that long for funds to be forwarded by S. But Im satisfied DMS received Miss Ks 
payment in May 2020 as it claimed. 
At that point, DMS marked the default as satisfied on Miss Ks credit file with a date of May 
2020. DMS has since agreed to backdate the date the default was satisfied to the date Miss 
K paid S  October 2019. I think thats a more accurate reflection of what happened with 
Miss Ks account and Im satisfied its a fair approach. 
Miss K has told us she experienced problems obtaining credit including a mortgage. As Ive 
said above, I can only look at DMS actions and it wasnt the business that closed Miss Ks 
account and defaulted it. DMS took over responsibility for reporting the default once it 
acquired the account. I agree the satisfaction date of the default should be backdated to 
October 2019. But as Miss Ks account with S did close and default before she cleared the 
outstanding balance Im not telling DMS to remove its entry from her credit file.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss K but as Im satisfied DMS offer to backdate the default 
settlement date to October 2019 is a fair way to resolve her complaint, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct Debt Managers (Services) Limited 
to backdate the default settlement date to 30 October 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman