DRN-3492528
The complaint
Miss J through a representative complains Hamsard 3225 Limited trading as CLC Finance
(Hamsard) gave her loans she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Miss J took four home collected loans between October 2018 and January 2019 Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 12/10/2018 15/01/2019 16 £10.00
2 £100.00 28/12/2018 19/06/2020 21 £8.50
3 £125.00 25/01/2019 03/07/2020 21 £10.63
4 £150.00 03/07/2020 outstanding 23 £11.40
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan, so where loans overlapped
the cost per week will be more. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running Miss Js
weekly commitment to Hamsard was £18.50.
Hamsard considered Miss Js complaint and issued its final response letter on this matter in
September 2021. Hamsard investigated the complaint and concluded it had carried out
checks in line with the regulations applicable at the time as well as its own internal
processes. It didnt uphold Miss Js complaint.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by Miss Js representative
in January 2022.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought it was reasonable for
Hamsard to have provided these loans. She said Miss J declared a sufficient amount of 
disposable income for Miss J to able to afford the repayments. While Miss J did have 
repayment problems these didnt occur until after the loans had been granted.
Hamsard also said a credit search was carried out, but the results of the search arent 
available. Miss Js representative provided details of some adverse information recorded on 
her credit file, but the information was applied to the credit report after the loans were 
approved.
While there were periods of non-payment the adjudicator thought Hamsard had treated
Miss J fairly.
Hamsard didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment.
Miss Js representative explained that it didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It
didnt provide any further comments but it did ask for an ombudsman to make a decision.
As no agreement was reached the case was passed to me for a decision. I then issued a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Miss Js complaint 
about loan 4. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this in italics 
and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Hamsard had to assess the lending to check if Miss J could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Hamsard checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Js income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Hamsard should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors include:
Miss J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss J.
Hamsard was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss J was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Js complaint.Loans 1  3
The adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Js complaint about these loans, and I agree with her,
based on the evidence that Ive seen from both Hamsard and Miss J.
For these loans Miss J declared she had a weekly income of between £208 and £367. And
her declared weekly expenditure was declared as being between £115 and £201. This left
Miss J with a weekly disposable income of between £67 and £97. Which was more than
sufficient to afford the largest contractual repayments due under loan 2 and 3 of £19.13 per
week. So, the loan repayments for these loans appeared affordable.
It looks like, based on what Hamsard said in the final response letter that a credit search
may have been carried out before the first loan was approved.
Hamsard hasnt provided the result of any credit checks it carried out and Miss Js
representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit report either. But, what Miss Js
representative has provided is a summary of what it considers the adverse information was
at the time each loan was approved.
However, and as the adjudicator pointed out, some of the adverse information the
representative has mentioned wouldnt have been recorded or visible at the time in any
credit check Hamsard may have carried out when these loans were approved. So, I cant
place any weight on the summary of the credit check results which can be found in the letter
of complaint.
Based on the information Miss J declared Hamsard couldve been confident she was in a
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given
this was in the early part of the lending relationship; I think the checks that Hamsard did
were proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to these
loans.
There also wasnt anything else that Hamsard may have been aware of that may have
indicated to it that Miss J was or likely having financial difficulties. I accept that Miss J had
some problems repaying loans 2 and 3 and it took significantly longer than Hamsard had
anticipated to repay these loans.
But at the time all these loans were approved, there wasnt anything else prior to this to
indicate that Miss J may have been having problems.
Ive also thought about the fact loan 3 was taken out shortly after loan 1 was repaid and
while loan two was running at the same time. At this point, Miss Js weekly commitment had
increased by 63 pence per week. But the weekly repayment was still fairly modest, and
there didnt appear to have been any repayment problems when loan 1 was settled. So,
overall, I think it was reasonable for Hamsard to still have relied on the information Miss J
provided it.
There also wasnt anything else in either the information Miss J had provided or what
Hamsard knew about Miss J that ought to have made it consider whether these loans were
unstainable for Miss J.
As this is the case, Im intending to not uphold Miss Js complaint about these loans.
Loan 4It isnt entirely clear why this loan wasnt considered as part of the adjudicators assessment,
because Hamsard provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with details of this loan as
part of its original file submission. Hamsards file was and is quite clear in stating that there
were four loans, and so Ive considered this loan to determine whether it should be upheld.
For this loan Miss J declared a weekly income of around £453 with weekly outgoings of
around £330 leaving, around £123 per week in order to meet her commitment to Hamsard of
£11.40. So Hamsard, may have purely based on the income and expenditure information
that it gathered concluded that Miss J wouldve been in a position to afford the loan
repayments.
However, I also think that Hamsard had to be mindful of Miss Js repayment history for her
previous loans, its reasonable to do this because it wouldve provided Hamsard with
information as to how Miss J would likely repay her loan.
Looking at the statement of account Hamsard has provided its clear that Miss J had
significant repayment problems for both loans 2 and 3. These loans took significantly longer
than Hamsard had expected to be repaid and there are also periods of time where no
payments are made, Ive outlined those periods below.
29/03/2019  31/05/2019.
16/08/2019- 31/10/2019.
2/11/2019  20/03/2020.
Based on the information available to me it isnt clear why no payments were made during
this period of time. All I can see from the statement of account that Hamsard hasnt applied
any extra fees or interest to the outstanding balance. However, Hamsard was on notice that
Miss J was clearly having financial difficulties given the extended period of time when no
payments were made.
Given, the repayment problems there is an argument that Hamsard ought to have carried out
further checks before this loan was granted  for it to check whether Miss J had overcome
whatever difficulties she had that led to her previous repayment problems. 
But, I dont think, in this case that I need to consider what a proportionate check may have 
showed Hamsard because there were sufficient repayment problems to have alerted 
Hamsard to the fact that this loan was likely to be unsustainable.
In my view, it is irrelevant whether the checks carried out by Hamsard went far enough, it
had enough information at its disposable to suggest that Miss J was having financial
difficulties and it shouldve concluded that this loan wasnt sustainable because Miss J would
likely have problems repaying it  which as I can see from the repayment history she did
because an outstanding balance remains.
Im therefore intending to uphold Miss Js complaint about this loan.
Response to provisional decision
Miss J (and / or her representative) as well as Hamsard were asked to provide anything 
further they wanted considering in response to the provisional decision as soon as possible, 
but no later than 19 May 2022.
Neither Miss J nor her representative responded to the provisional decision.
Hamsard said it didnt have anything further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new comments or evidence has been provided, I see no reason to change the 
outcome that I was intending to reach in the provisional decision. I still think, Hamsard 
shouldnt have approved loan 4 because Miss J had had significant repayment problems 
while trying to repay loans 2 and 3. 
Ive outlined below what Hamsard is required to do in order to put things right for Miss J. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Hamsard should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided loan 4, as Im satisfied ought to have been the 
case. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss J may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss J would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Hamsards liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Im intending to direct Hamsard to pay compensation in relation to loan 4.
If Hamsard has sold the outstanding debt Hamsard should buy it back if Hamsard is able to
do so and then take the following steps. If Hamsard is not able to buy the debt back then
Hamsard should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Hamsard should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss J as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss J 
having made overpayments then Hamsard should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Hamsard should then move to 
step C.
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Hamsard should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss J. Hamsard shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Hamsard has already written-off.
C. Hamsard should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file in 
relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Hamsard to deduct tax from this interest. Hamsard
should give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax Hamsard deducted, if she asks for
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Js 
complaint in part.
Hamsard 3225 Limited trading as CLC Finance should put things right for Miss J as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman