DRN-3057226
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Moneybarn 
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S bought a used car in May 2020. The car cost £10,899 and was 8 years old. At the time 
of purchase the car had travelled 52,888 miles.
Mr S says that he had problems with the cars braking system from the point of purchase. Mr 
S says that the brakes were smoking and that he had to slow the car down using the gears. 
Mr S reported the issues to Moneybarn in November 2020. The supplying garage said that 
the car required new brake discs but as the car had covered over 10,000 miles since 
purchase this was a wear and tear item and was unlikely to have been present at the point of 
sale.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked into Mr Ss concerns and 
they didnt think that Moneybarn had done anything wrong. They thought that the brake discs 
were likely to be a wear and tear item given the amount of miles Mr S had covered and the 
time that he had owned the car. They thought that as the brakes were not listed as an 
advisory item at the MOT in January 2020, and the car had only covered 300 further miles 
before Mr S bought it in May 2020, it was unlikely that the brakes were faulty at the point of 
supply.
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the matter could have been overlooked 
at MOT and the investigator was not a mechanic and hadnt taken into account what hes 
said.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr S - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mr S was eight years old, had been driven for 52,800 miles and 
had a price of £10,899. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
The car passed an MOT on 22 January 2020 with no advisories. An earlier MOT on 4 
January 2020 had picked up faults with the brake pipes and the car failed the MOT because 
of the corroded brake pipes. I think its reasonable to conclude that the braking system was 
inspected at the later MOT and the earlier faults had been rectified.
By the time Mr S raised issues with the brake discs in November 2020 the car had covered 
over 10,000 miles. If there were problems with the brakes that were there or developing at 
the point of sale Mr S wouldnt have been able to drive those miles. I note what he says 
about slowing the car with the gears but I dont think that the problem was there at the point 
of sale. I think it is more likely that the brake discs have worn down as Mr S has driven the 
car.
It is to be expected with a car of this age and mileage that parts will wear out and require 
replacement. It does not mean that the car is not of satisfactory quality when it is supplied. 
Brake pads and discs are common replacement items. So, I cant say that based on the 
evidence Ive seen that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
I understand the point Mr S is making with respect to the warranty. Mr S is complaining 
because the warranty covered faults in the first 6 months and so the brakes should be 
covered. But, Moneybarn isnt responsible for the warranty and so I cant ask it to pay for 
repairs under that warranty. Mr S will need to take his complaint further with the warranty 
company. Although I think that the terms of the warranty are likely to exclude wear and tear 
items such as brake pads and discs. 
I sympathise with Mr S for the cost of repairing the brakes  but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him. So, I cant ask Moneybarn to take any action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman