DRN-3875944
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has partially declined a storm damage 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, during a period of strong winds, damage was caused to Mr and Mrs Js 
front garden and rear garden walls. So, they made a storm damage claim to AXA, their 
home insurance provider.
AXA inspected the walls and decided to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Js claim. It accepted 
the front garden wall had been damaged by the storm, as it appeared to have been in good 
condition prior. However, AXA said the rear wall showed clear signs of gradual deterioration, 
which it considered was the dominant cause of the damage. So, AXA declined to cover the 
damage to the rear wall.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with AXAs position. They disagreed with AXAs offer of 
settlement for the front wall and with its decision to decline the damage to the rear wall. So, 
they approached this service.
During her investigation, our investigator referred a quote for repairs to the front wall, which 
Mr and Mrs J had obtained, to AXA for consideration. Based on this, AXA agreed to increase 
its offer for the front wall from £1,060.04 to £1,309.56. 
Our investigators opinion was that AXAs decision to decline cover for the rear garden wall 
was fair, because she agreed the storm was not the dominant cause of damage. She also 
said AXAs increased offer for the front garden wall was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
AXA doesnt dispute that there were storm conditions at the time of loss. So, as this isnt in 
dispute, I dont need to make a decision about whether a storm occurred on the date of 
damage. And a garden boundary wall could be damaged by storm force winds, so that 
potentially satisfies question two.
AXA has declined the claim for the rear garden wall on the basis of its surveyors 
conclusions, that gradual deterioration, rather than the storm conditions, was the dominant 
cause of the damage and that this was merely highlighted by the storm. 
The important guidance section of Mr and Mrs Js policy explains:
Our home insurance policy is designed to protect you against the risk of things 
happening suddenly which you could not have expected such as fire, theft, flood and 
storm. It is not designed to protect you against losses that arise due to the gradual 
deterioration or poor maintenance of your home.
Ive considered the conclusions reached by AXAs surveyor, and the images and information 
provided by both parties. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by AXA and 
our investigator. The images of the wall show gaps between the wall and pillar and 
degradation of the mortar between the bricks. I think this damage most likely happened over 
time and would likely have weakened the structural integrity of the wall, leaving it more 
susceptible to damage from strong winds. 
Mr and Mrs J have said they had an independent surveyor assess the wall and reach a 
different conclusion. But they havent provided our service with any report or comments 
directly from this surveyor. So, based on the images and expert report I have seen, and in 
the absence of any conflicting expert evidence from Mr and Mrs J, Im persuaded, on 
balance, that the dominant cause of damage to the rear garden wall was gradual 
deterioration, rather than the storm.
AXA accepted Mr and Mrs Js claim for the front garden wall. It initially offered around 
£1,060 for the repairs. But having considered a quote from Mr and Mrs J, increased this offer 
to around £1,310. Mr and Mrs J remain dissatisfied with this offer. The quote they provided 
was for £2,000, so they dont agree the roughly £1,310 is fair.
AXA has explained that the £2,000 quote included costs for demolishing the wall and 
supplying new bricks. But it has pointed out that there is no need for either as the wall is 
already demolished and the bricks are able to be reused. AXA has also highlighted that it is 
prepared to carry out the repair to the front garden wall. This means its offer of cash 
settlement is limited to the amount it would cost for AXAs preferred supplier to carry out the 
repair.
Mr and Mrs Js policy document explains this approach under the how we settle claims 
section:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the damaged property. If we cannot replace or 
repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree 
to pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we would have 
paid the preferred supplier.Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that AXAs offer, to either repair the wall through 
a preferred supplier, or cash settle based on its scope of repairs at the cost to its supplier, is 
in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy and is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
It follows that Ill not be directing AXA to increase the offer it has already made.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has made an offer to repair Mr and Mrs Js front garden wall, or to 
pay a cash settlement of £1,309.56 instead. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, Mr and Mrs J should let AXA Insurance UK Plc know their preferred option, and it must 
settle their claim in line with this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman