DRN-4358217
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, hasnt treated her fairly 
regarding a funeral plan.
What happened
In 2012 Mrs R and her husband Mr R entered into a funeral plan arrangement with a funeral 
plan provider (the Provider). The Provider has since ceased trading and cannot provide the 
funerals paid for. Mrs R says she paid part of the cost on her Virgin credit card. So she feels 
Virgin should either refund her in full or provide the funeral arrangements she agreed with 
the Provider. So she asked Virgin to cover her funeral contract under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Virgin looked into the matter and couldnt find any evidence of it funding any transaction to 
the Provider. It noted it was only obliged to keep records for six years and the transaction 
Mrs R says she made would have been much longer ago. So it didnt refund her. So she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that Virgin had treated Mrs R fairly in relation to the chargeback and that 
Mrs Rs claim didnt show that Virgin was involved. So our investigator concluded that Virgin 
hadnt treated her unfairly. Mrs R didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has made many arguments on this matter. Ive considered them all. But Ill only 
address the key issues here as I see them. Im sorry to say that her complaint is 
unsuccessful for the following reasons.
Chargeback
Mrs Rs credit card is part of a card scheme operated by another company (not Virgin). 
Within this scheme there is a mechanism for banks to aid consumers with disputes with 
merchants such as the case here, which is called chargeback. The scheme has particular 
rules which need to be followed around chargeback. And banks can take a dispute 
throughout the entire chargeback process and not be successful because the final arbiter is 
the card scheme and not the bank.
Mrs R hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that Mrs Rs card was used in this 
transaction. And Virgin isnt required to keep records indefinitely. And even if Mrs R was able 
to provide such evidence the card scheme has time limits for chargebacks including a long-
stop time limit which this dispute is substantially outside of. So a chargeback in these 
circumstances raised when Mrs R spoke to Virgin could not be successful in any event 
because it is significantly outside the time limits. So Virgin hasnt treated Mrs R unfairly or 
caused Mrs R to lose out in relation to chargeback here.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
which have to be met before deciding whether there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the Provider that Virgin could be held liable for. One of these is that 
there is a three-way contractual relationship between the supplier (the Provider here), the 
debtor and the creditor. Mrs R says she used her card to fund this transaction towards her 
funeral plan. However under this legislation it is for Mrs R to show she has a like claim as to 
that against the Provider to the Creditor. It is not for Virgin to disprove it. And although Mrs R 
can show she had a contract with the Provider she cannot demonstrate that Virgin funded 
part of this agreement or that she used her Virgin card to pay the Provider. And she has to 
show she has a legal claim and Virgin then have to consider it fairly.
But having considered all the evidence available Im not persuaded shes shown Virgin has 
treated her unfairly by saying there is no persuasive evidence that it is involved in this 
transaction at all.
Other matters
For the sake of completeness Ill deal with some of Mrs Rs other arguments. Mrs R says its 
unfair that she has to prove that Virgin were involved. Unfortunately that is a requirement to 
make Virgin liable under this legislation. And after all it would be unfair if Virgin did have to 
pay considering it isnt the Provider nor is it responsible for the Provider ceasing trading. Just 
because Mrs R has lost out it doesnt mean Virgin should refund her here when it hasnt 
done anything wrong.
Mrs R says she uses her card a lot and that she must have used her Virgin card. However 
there is nothing persuasive in the evidence pointing to Virgin being involved in any way. And 
as Ive described she has to prove her case as she would have to if she took the matter to a 
Court and made a like claim.
Mrs R points to other banks having records from many years ago. This may well be the 
case. But it doesnt demonstrate that Virgin has done anything wrong. And if it hasnt done 
anything wrong it would be unfair on Virgin to have to pay out here when theres no 
persuasive evidence it was involved in any capacity.
In summary I think Virgin made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. 
And I dont think it could be held responsible under S75 either. So I dont think I can fairly 
require Virgin to do more. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mrs R wants to read as she is clearly invested in 
this matter. But ultimately just because Mrs R has lost out doesnt make it fair to make Virgin 
pay when there is no persuasive evidence it was even involved in the transaction to the 
Provider. So I think Virgin treated her fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against that Clydesdale Bank 
Plc, trading as Virgin Money.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman