DRN-3411671
The complaint
Mr R complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was faulty. He either wants repairs carried out and his warranty 
extended or to return the car and have the finance cancelled.
What happened
Mr R entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in August 2020 to acquire a 
used car. The car was registered in 2013 and at the time of acquisition had a mileage of over 
51,000. He says when he collected the car he could hear a noise from the alternator belt and 
agreed to purchase the part for the garage to fit. He says this part was wear and tear, but he 
thought there were other issues and expected those to be covered by his warranty. He says 
due to lockdown he couldnt get the repairs carried out and when he contacted the garage 
after the restrictions were lifted it wouldnt cover the costs under his warranty. Mr R says the 
car now has several problems noting issues with the engine, head gasket and clutch and 
says he cant drive the car. 
Moneybarn issued a final response letter to Mr R in July 2021 not upholding his complaint. It 
said Mr R contacted it in April 2021 about issues with his cars auxiliary belt and that the car 
was overheating. It said that as the issues were raised more than six months after Mr R 
acquired the car the onus was on him to show any issues were not due to normal wear and 
tear and were present or developing at the point of supply. It said the videos Mr R had 
provided didnt confirm the faults were present at the time of acquisition and said Mr R didnt 
raise any issues within the first eight months of having the car. It also said the issues raised 
would be considered normal wear and tear. 
Our investigator thought there was a fault with the car based on the invoice for a fan belt and 
the report noting Check and diagnose- found fault noisy water pump and belt reduced/no 
circulation of water flow round the engine- requires replacing. However, they didnt think this 
was enough to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and 
thought the issues were likely due to wear and tear.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said there were issues present from the 
outset and these werent wear and tear. He says the noise occurred when he collected the 
car and he agreed to buy the belt but he didnt think this was the issue and he had expected 
any other repairs to have been undertaken under his warranty. He said the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and he reported the issues within a couple of weeks but couldnt get 
repairs at the time due to lockdown. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated as he acquired a car through a finance agreement 
and then experienced issues shortly after. He has since said the issues are now such that he 
isnt able to drive the car. 
Under the regulations - specifically relevant in this case is the Consumer rights Act 2015 - 
Moneybarn can be held liable if the car Mr R acquired through the conditional sale 
agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. When considering satisfactory 
quality, factors such as the age and mileage of the car are taken into consideration. In this 
case the car Mr R acquired was around seven years old and had been driven over 51,000 
miles at acquisition and therefore it would be reasonable to expect that it had experienced 
some wear and tear. It is also possible with used cars that issues can arise shortly after 
acquisition even if they werent present at the point of supply.
Mr R says that he reported issues with the car to the garage shortly after acquisition. He has 
provided copies of his phone bills to support this. He says he wasnt able to get repairs at the 
time due to lockdown restrictions. Therefore, I accept that Mr R did try to raise and resolve 
the issues with his car within the first few weeks, but this didnt happen. However, for me to 
uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the issues Mr R noted shortly after 
acquisition meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I have looked at the videos Mr R has provided which he says are from shortly after 
acquisition, I have also seen the copy of an invoice for a fan belt from October 2020. A 
report was carried out by a garage, but this was in October 2021, over a year after 
acquisition. This says Check and diagnose- found fault noisy water pump and belt 
reduced/no circulation of water flow round the engine- requires replacing. 
However, given the age and mileage of the car at acquisition, I find on balance that 
replacement of the fan belt would be considered wear and tear. I also note that the sales 
invoice recorded the mileage of the car at end August as 51,601 compared to the mileage 
recorded on the October 2021 report as 55,014. This suggests the car was driven around 
3,500 miles before the report was undertaken which I do not think would have been possible 
if the car wasnt fit for purpose at the point of supply.
I have also looked at the MOT history and this shows the car passed an MOT in September 
2020 and again in September 2021. The mileage covered between the two was around 
3,000 miles. There were no advisories noted on the September 2020 MOT and those noted 
on the September 2021 would generally be considered wear and tear items. The exception 
to this might be the mention of a slight oil leak but this hadnt been mentioned previously so I 
have nothing to suggest it was present at the point of supply.
Mr R raised his complaint with Moneybarn in April 2021. This was more than six months 
after acquisition, and I do not find it unreasonable that Moneybarn asked for evidence of the 
issues being present at the point of supply. Having considered the evidence that has been 
provided, I do not find I can say that there is enough to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and therefore I do not find I can uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman