DRN-1606015
 
The complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr K bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time 
between 1998 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the 
account at the same time as Mr K applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr K applied for his card some time between 1998 and 2000 and its possible that 
he bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its 
most likely Mr K bought the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr K aware the PPI was optional and he chose 
to take it. Mr K says he doesn't remember PPI being discussed when he took out the 
credit card, and that he didn't know it had been added to his account. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr K and Lloyds when the 
policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no longer available. 
Thats not surprising as its many years since the policy was sold. But from what we 
know about Lloyds sales processes between 1998 and 2000, Mr K wouldve had to 
actively select the PPI. I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the PPI to Mr 
Ks account if he hadnt chosen to take it. Although I accept it is possible PPI wasnt 
discussed, it is equally likely it was  although I can understand why Mr K may no 
longer remember this.
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt look as 
if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time.Mr K says he was in a secure job when took out the policy, and that he had 
savings he could've used to cover his credit card repayments. He's also said he was 
living with his parents and his outgoings were minimal. So I can see why Mr K might consider he didn't need the PPI. I've noted everything he's said. But the PPI would've 
paid out in addition to Mr K's employer benefits. And it would've meant he could 
leave his savings intact, or he could've used them to cover other expenses. So I think 
the policy wouldve been useful to Mr K if he couldnt work, despite his existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But its unlikely Mr K would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had 
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman