DRN-3085926
Complaint
Miss B has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to her. She says the overdraft was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided 
as any credit search would have shown her previous difficulties with credit.
Background
NatWest provided Miss B with an overdraft for £250 in December 2017. Miss Bs overdraft 
was eventually passed to collections.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and NatWest had told us. And he thought 
NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Miss Bs complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Bs complaint.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss B 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Miss Bs application after it carried out a credit search and taking 
some income and expenditure information. On the other hand, Miss B says she had 
defaulted a number of times on previous credit and so shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss B and NatWest have said. 
I have to start by saying that Miss B was borrowing a low amount and I think this is important 
context to bear in mind in this particular case. I accept that NatWests searches may not 
have picked up everything about Miss Bs circumstances. But having looked at the copy of 
Miss Bs full credit file, which she provided us with, Im satisfied that there are defaults and 
county court judgements present at the time and NatWest would have seen at least some of 
this. Indeed NatWest application data shows there were at least two historic ones that it saw.
That said, Im mindful of the low amount lent and that this facility had to be paid within a 
reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. And in these circumstances, where the 
other income and expenditure information obtained clearly showed the facility could be 
repaid within a period of time, I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to have provided 
Miss B with the low amount it did.  
So overall while I do have some concerns the information on Miss Bs credit file at the time, 
bearing in mind the circumstances, type and amount of the facility it agreed to, I dont think 
that NatWest treated Miss B unfairly or unreasonably when providing her with her overdraft. 
And Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman