DRN-3375090
The complaint
Mr L complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) sold units he 
had in Wisdom Tree Sugar Exchange Traded Commodity (ETC) at an off-market price. This 
caused him a financial loss for which hed like compensation. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr L bought over 3,700 units in Wisdom Tree Sugar ETC (the ETC) at a 
total cost of just under £20,000. On 7 January 2021, in order to manage his risk, Mr L set a 
stop loss at 548p, or roughly 6% lower than the prevailing price at the time. At around 
1.28pm the same day, his stop loss was triggered and his units in the ETC were sold at 
around 511p. Mr L said that shortly after the bid/offer price went back to 575/598. He 
complained to HLAM that it had failed to protect him from what was, in his view, market 
abuse and it did not look after his interests. 
HLAM looked into his complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained 
what had happened in his case  namely that at 1.28pm the ETC suffered from a particularly 
wide spread which triggered his stop loss. HLAM executed the stop loss in line with his 
instructions, and said that his order was executed in line with the terms. It said the risk of 
gapping had been clearly explained to him and was inherent in the use of a stop loss. 
Mr L remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ls complaint, but didnt consider it should be upheld. In summary, she 
explained that HLAM had explained the risks of gapping to Mr L on its website and it wasnt 
responsible for the ETCs price, or where it was trading at. She explained that the pricing 
data Mr L had referred to wasnt conclusive evidence, because that only referred to certain 
trades in the particular ETC Mr L held, not all of them. The evidence provided by HLAM 
showed that it had correctly executed Mr Ls stop loss, and it did not have the discretion to 
ignore it once it was triggered  if it had, and the price had continued to drop, HLAM 
wouldve failed in its obligation to provide Mr L with best execution. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hed not received a satisfactory 
explanation that market abuse hadnt taken place. He said he accepted that HLAM wasnt 
directly responsible for the loss, but he said that it should have checks in place to ensure 
that suspicious settlements are investigated. He agreed that HLAM had no discretion over 
when to execute a stop loss once the price had been reached, but he said that this didnt 
stop it from investigating unusual activity on his behalf. He said when he reported this 
unusual activity to HLAM, it dismissed it as normal. 
Mr L said that the pricing data he supplied showed that there was no evidence of any 
market occurrence that would support a move over milliseconds to the extent of 14.2%. He 
said it wasnt reasonable to suggest that the lowest price ought to have prevailed. And he 
said that there was nothing to suggest that the stock he had a stop loss on had suffered from 
a market event that would explain such a drop in price. Mr L said that in his view, this was 
straightforward profiteering. He said that this was an off book trade and meant that 
someone decided to see what would happen if they made a very low bid of 15% below the 
offer price which resulted in them making an excessive profit out of all those investors who 
had stops in that particular ETC. In Mr Ls view, it was unacceptable to suggest that this 
was the reality of the market at that time and instead, he said it was a glitch or market abuse 
unless it can be proved otherwise. 
Mr L said that if this were to go unchecked, it would make a mockery of the security offered 
by the stop loss system. He said that given HLAM offer a service to protect the investors, 
surely they have a responsibility that such service is fit for purpose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read Mr Ls submissions very carefully, Id like to make it clear that I understand his 
frustration  and I sympathise with his disappointment at the level his stop loss was 
executed at. But my role is to consider HLAMs actions in line with what is fair and 
reasonable  and this includes the extent of HLAMs responsibility when executing a client 
order. 
Mr L has said that HLAM ought to have looked into the price discrepancy and in some way 
protected his interests given what he calls the market abuse that occurred. But I dont agree 
this is something that HLAM was required to do at the time. HLAM facilitates the trades of 
many thousands of investments, for many thousands of clients, and executes trades on 
behalf of all these clients in significant volumes. I dont agree its fair and reasonable for Mr L 
to have expected HLAM to second guess the market quote it received on the ETC from the 
market makers it uses  and Im not clear how it would have gone about doing so, when the 
prices were fluctuating in real time. 
What HLAM was required to do was execute Mr Ls trade in line with its terms and best 
execution policy and the relevant rules in Conduct of Business Rules (COBS  and 
specifically, COBS 11). This required HLAM to execute Mr Ls instruction and obtain for him 
the best available price at that time, taking into account execution factors. In Mr Ls case, 
the evidence Ive seen is persuasive evidence that his stop loss was triggered, and 
executed, at the best available market price. I acknowledge that shortly after the price 
increased again to a level above his stop loss  but as the investigator and HLAM have both 
explained, and as Mr L himself has acknowledged, the risk of gapping, even for a very short 
amount of time, is inherent in trading. Its also a particularly relevant risk when placing 
automatic orders, such as stop losses, because it removes the traders ability to assess the 
price and decide whether to sell, or hang on to the investment with the expectation that the 
price will recover. 
Ultimately, once HLAM received a price from its market makers which was below the level of 
the stop loss Mr L had set, it had an obligation to execute it as soon as possible. Having 
done this, HLAM had discharged its obligations towards Mr L and was required to do nothing 
else. 
HLAM has also provided a detailed explanation about the specific ETC Mr L had invested in 
and what it said caused the bid/offer spread to widen. It said that the ETC Mr L was invested 
in was order driven stock, which meant that its prices were based on the best buy and sell 
orders which were placed on its order book by market makers. On the day in question, a number of orders were removed from the order book which caused 
the bid/offer spread to widen significantly, thereby triggering Mr Ls stop loss. As a result, 
HLAM executed Mr Ls trade (in the end at a slightly improved price) in line with its terms 
and its obligation to provide him with best execution. The fact that the ETCs price improved 
shortly afterwards wasnt something HLAM could anticipate or do anything about.  
I acknowledge that during our investigation Mr L provided some evidence that he said 
showed that the price of the ETC didnt reach the level his stop loss was executed at. The 
investigator correctly explained that the evidence Mr L had was not conclusive, as it didnt 
show all the executed trades in the ETC Mr L had. HLAM has provided persuasive, and in 
my view conclusive, evidence of the ETCs prices at the time  and these corroborate the 
reasons why Mr Ls stop loss was triggered, and the price that his units were sold at. 
I understand why Mr L thinks that HLAM ought to have investigated or otherwise looked into 
the price volatility, given the absence of any particular news or market event that would 
explain it. However, I dont agree that this was something HLAM needed to do for Mr L. Mr L 
is entitled to raise his concerns with the London Stock Exchange if he thinks theres been 
market abuse, or with any other relevant institutions tasked with investigating stock market 
irregularities. But in terms of this specific order, and the price it was executed at, Im satisfied 
HLAM have treated Mr L fairly and did not cause him the loss he is claiming. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman