DRN-2894783
The complaint
Mr G complains that Covea Insurance plc didnt tell him that a marker would still be recorded 
against his motor insurance policy on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database after he had repaid his claim. He wants the marker removed or compensation for 
the effect this will have on his premium. 
What happened
Mr Gs car was stolen and Covea paid his claim for its loss. The car was then recovered, and 
Mr G decided to retain the car and so he repaid Covea the claim costs. He thought the claim 
would be closed and removed from any databases. 
But, two years later, Mr G found that there was a for notification only marker on CUE and 
that he needed to report this when he took out policies. Covea said it could have been 
clearer when explaining to Mr G the effect repaying the claim would have. It offered him £25 
compensation. But Mr G remained unhappy as he felt that Covea had acted on false 
pretences. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Covea 
had told Mr G that the theft would be recorded as for notification on CUE. He agreed that 
Covea could have been clearer about this. But he thought Mr G wouldnt have acted 
differently if Covea had given him better information. So he thought its offer of £25 
compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr G replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr G isnt an expert in insurance matters and that some of Coveas 
communication may not have been as explicit as he wished. He suggested some changes 
that all insurers could make in how they notify consumers about records of claims. But it isnt 
my role to consider that here as my role is to consider his specific complaint about Covea. 
And Im unable to uphold his complaint and Ill now explain why I think this. 
When he had the opportunity to retain his car, I can see that there was an email exchange 
between Mr G and Covea to clarify the costs and the consequences. Mr G emailed Covea to 
ask what effect repaying the claim would have on his insurance record. It replied:
If you were to reimburse us for the full cost of the claim, we would allow your NCB and close 
the claim down.
The theft would still show up on the claims and underwriting exchange database so other 
insurers would be able to see it but because your NCB would be allowed and effectively no 
costs will have been paid out, it shouldn't really have any affect on your future premiums.
So I think Covea made it reasonably clear to Mr G that the theft would still show on CUE. But 
Covea also told Mr G, after he had repaid the claim:
I confirm that the insurance theft interest which was recorded against the above registration 
has now been updated and removed from the insurer system.
However, this didnt refer to CUE but to the separate Motor Insurers Anti-Fraud and Theft 
Register where theft markers are recorded.
I think Covea could have made this difference clearer. But, like the investigator, I think that if 
it had done this then the outcome for Mr G would not have been different. He repaid Covea, 
the fault claim was closed and recorded as a notification, and his No Claims Bonus (NCB) 
was allowed. Mr G thought the effect would be as if the theft had never happened. But I think 
Coveas email made it clear that it would remain on CUE. I think Covea is obliged to record 
accurate information and so I dont require it to remove the marker. 
Mr G thought that if he had been told that hed still have to report the incident to future 
insurers as a notification, then hed have not bought back the claim. He said that hed then 
have the money he saved in this to pay any future insurance increases due to the fault claim 
on his record. But I think Mr G would also have been without his car which he clearly wanted 
to retain. Hed also have a fault claim on his record and this would have a greater effect on 
future premiums than a notification. So Im not persuaded by his argument. 
Mr G thought he wouldnt need to report the theft to future insurers as the claim had been 
closed down and it was available to be seen on CUE. But I think most insurers, and online 
comparison sites, ask about previous claims or incidents. So I think Mr G would always still 
have had to report the theft if he was asked about any previous claims or incidents. And I 
cant hold Covea responsible for Mr G not reporting the incident even though it was for 
notification only. 
Covea offered Mr G £25 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its level of 
communication. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in 
similar circumstances. I dont require Covea to increase this. Mr G said that he hadnt 
received this, but I think it was for him to provide Covea with his bank details so that 
payment could be made. I expect Covea to honour this offer if Mr G wishes to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman