DRN-3253055
Complaint
Mr M has, amongst other things, complained that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly 
provided unaffordable credit to him on two credit cards.
  
Background
Mr M was provided with an Aqua branded credit card, which had an initial credit limit of 
£250, in October 2014. The credit limit on this account was increased on three occasions 
until it reached £2,450.00 in January 2017. 
NewDay then provided Mr M with a Marbles branded credit card, which had an initial limit of 
£300, in September 2017. The credit limit on this account appears to have been increased 
on two occasions until it reached £1,950.00 in June 2018.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr M and NewDay had told us. And he thought that 
NewDay shouldnt have provided the final credit limit increase on the Aqua card or the 
Marbles card at all. So he partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. NewDay didnt respond and so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a bit more detail.
NewDay needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NewDay needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M 
could afford to repay before providing these credit cards and any limit increases. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The Aqua credit card Mr M was initially provided with had a credit limit of around £250. And 
as this was a credit card NewDay was required to understand whether Mr M could repay 
£250, plus any interest accrued, within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr M was asked to provide a declaration of his income and he stated that it was £10,000.00 
a year. I can also see that a credit check was carried out which showed Mr M didnt have too 
much in the way of existing credit commitments at this time. As this is the case, Im satisfied 
that NewDay did do enough to establish that Mr M could repay the full amount due on the 
credit limits provided in October 2014, February 2015 and August 2016. 
Im also satisfied that what NewDay saw as a result of these checks meant that it was 
reasonable and proportionate to initially provide Mr M with a credit card in October 2014 and 
the subsequent increases in February 2015 and August 2016. So I find that NewDay didnt 
treat Mr M unfairly when it initially provided him with a credit card and increased his credit 
limit to £1,400.00 in the period between October 2014 and August 2016.
That said, in January 2017 NewDay increased Mr Ms limit by a further £1,050.00 taking it to 
£2,450.00. And this now meant that the amount he could owe plus the interest could account 
for a substantial proportion of his entire annual income. Equally, it was clear that Mr Ms 
balance hadnt really been reducing and that hed immediately used up the entire amount of 
the additional funds available to him as a result of the August 2016 credit limit increase. 
In these circumstances, I think that NewDay ought to have been mindful to the possibility 
that any further credit might have been unsustainable, especially in light of what Ive already 
said about the possibility of the amount owing taking up a significant portion of Mr Ms 
annual salary. It also appears as though that Aqua wasnt Mr Ms only creditor at this stage 
and Mr M was starting to have difficulty sustainably meeting his commitments to some of his 
other commitments. At this stage, it seems to me that it is more likely than not than any 
further credit couldnt have been sustainably repaid by Mr M. 
So overall and having looked at the information NewDay had available at the time, Im 
satisfied that it ought to have realised Mr M couldnt sustainably repay an additional 
£1,050.00 in January 2017. And so NewDay shouldnt have been provided the credit limit 
increase it did at this time. Furthermore, as Mr Ms circumstances and overall indebtedness 
worsened by September 2017, it follows that I find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
ought to have shown NewDay that it shouldnt have provided the Marbles branded credit 
card at all let alone increased credit limits to £1,950.00. 
Mr M went on to and is being expected to pay interest and charges on credit that he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that he has lost out as a of what NewDay 
did wrong. And Im satisfied that NewDay now needs to put things right.   
  
Fair compensation  what NewDay needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, for NewDay to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr Ms Aqua account to ensure that from January 2017 interest is only 
charged on the first £1,400.00 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed; 
rework Mr Ms Marbles account to ensure that no interest at all is charged - to reflect 
the fact that this account should never have been provided in the first place. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed;
if an outstanding balance, or balances, remains on Mr Ms accounts once all 
adjustments have been made NewDay should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ms credit file, it should backdate this to when it shouldnt have provided the 
additional credit in question in the first place; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr M 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains on either or both 
accounts after all adjustments have been made, then Newday should remove any 
adverse information from Mr Ms credit file regarding any affected account or 
accounts.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman