DRN-3342186
The complaint
Mr S complains that it was unfair of Barclays Bank UK PLC to reject his claim under section 
75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a misrepresented timeshare.
I believe the agreement is in the joint names of Mr S and his wife, but the credit card account 
is in Mr Ss sole name. This means Mr S is the complainant who is eligible to bring a
complaint to our service so Ive referred to him alone in this decision.
Mr S is represented by a firm of solicitors but I will refer to everything thats been
said on his behalf as if Mr S said it himself.
What happened
Mr S purchased the timeshare in September/October 2000 and paid in part using his 
Barclays credit card.  He has provided a till receipt for $1,300, though due to the passage of 
time Barclays has no record of the transaction.
Mr S says misrepresentations were made, he was told it was viable and suitable investment 
and promised he could resell at a time of his choice. He says he wasnt properly informed 
about the increasing maintenance fees and wasnt given an accurate understanding of the 
availability of the timeshare. He discovered later that access was restricted in both times and 
locations. Nor was he told about the perpetuity clause which could leave a financial burden 
to his next of kin. Finally, he was told that weeks could be banked and longer holidays taken 
which proved to be untrue. Mr S also said he was pressurised into signing the contract and 
paying a deposit.
Mr S says he only became aware of the misrepresentation in 2017 when he contacted the 
solicitor. A claim was made to Barclays in December 2018, although no reason has been 
given for the delay. It responded and said the claim was out of time. A complaint was made 
to this service in January 2019.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She thought the claim fell outside of the time 
limits in s2 LA and s9 LA. So, she considered it was fair for Barclays to turn down the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree and said a full response would follow, but after four months nothing further 
has been received. He said that the date on which our investigator had relied was incorrect 
and it should be the date Mr S had knowledge of the misrepresentation and not the date of 
the transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr S, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But,
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a
fair and reasonable outcome.
Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service
I have considered whether this complaint comes within the jurisdiction of our service. 
The rules about the complaints that we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook.
These are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply
with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a
complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
To decide if this complaint is one that we can look into, Ive considered what Mr S is
complaining about exactly. I think its clear hes unhappy because he feels Barclays failed to 
fulfil its obligations under the CCA when it rejected claims he made under section 75 arising 
out of his purchase of the product.
Jurisdiction and Mr Ss section 75 claim
Im satisfied that the exercise of a lenders rights and duties under a credit agreement is a
regulated activity under (Article 60(B)(2) of the FSMA (Regulated Activities Order 2001). A
creditor has a duty to comply with the CCA and I think considering a claim under the CCA is
ancillary to - and carried on in connection with - a regulated activity.
The event that Mr S is complaining here about is Barclays rejection of the claim that he 
made under the CCA. So, the relevant date is when Barclays declined his complaint in 
January 2019. Mr S brought this complaint to our service not long after that and Im satisfied 
hes not out of time to do so. I find this part of Mr Ss complaint falls within the jurisdiction of 
this service and we can consider it.
Merits of the complaint
In light of my findings above, Ive gone on to consider the merits of Mr Ss complaint. Mr S
brings claims against Barclays under section 75 and Im considering whether Barclays has 
provided a fair and reasonable response to Mr Ss claim in this decision.
Our investigator says any right that Mr S had to bring these claims against Barclays is 
probably out of time under the LA. If thats correct, then I think its something that Barclays 
could reasonably take into account when it decided to decline Mr Ss claims. I should make it 
clear however, that I am not deciding here if any right that Mr S may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts.
Section 75 CCA
Under section 75 a borrower has an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a
supplier, in certain circumstances, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the supplier. In this complaint, Mr S claims that misrepresentations were made and I think
sections 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant.Section 2 applies to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under section 2(1) of the
Misrepresentation Act 1967 and section 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable
under statute. Im satisfied that both sections impose a limitation period of six years from the
date that a cause of action accrues. And I think the date the cause of action accrued here
will be the same as the date upon which the misrepresentations alleged under section 75
became actionable  that is the date any damage is suffered.
Im satisfied any relevant damage was incurred when Mr S purchased the product and took
out the finance - in September/October 2000. Amongst other things, this was when he paid 
for the benefits which he says were misrepresented. As a consequence, I think Mr S would 
have needed to bring any claim under section 75 within six years of the date he entered into 
the transaction to purchase the product. Im satisfied that more than six years had passed 
since that date before Mr S contacted Barclays - in December 2018. I believe the period 
within which he had to bring an action under section 75 had run out by that point and I cant 
reasonably find it was wrong of Barclays to decline Mr Ss section 75 claim.
Section 32 LA
I appreciate Mr S may say he didnt know about these time limits but Im afraid thats not
generally accepted as grounds for extending the limitation period. I have given some thought
to section 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of time for starting an action if fraud, 
mistake or concealment are found (or could with reasonable diligence have been 
discovered).
I cant see that specific allegations of this sort were put to Barclays previously. But, even if I 
were to accept that section 32 applied, I think Mr S probably had enough information to start 
the clock running in the particular circumstances not long after he purchased the product.
I say this because it looks as if Mr S used the product fairly soon after purchase. He says
that the promises made to him were false and that means he must have been aware of this
within a relatively short period of taking on the timeshare. 
On balance, I think it reasonable to conclude that Mr S was probably aware then that 
benefits he says he was told at the outset would be provided might have been 
misrepresented early on. I think its more likely than not he would also have realised he 
wasnt receiving the services he expected at that stage. I consider this would have been 
sufficient to enable Mr S to bring his claims and Im not persuaded its unreasonable to 
expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits. It follows Im not persuaded that 
section 32 assists Mr S here
Conclusion
As the investigator explained, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr S
may have against the supplier or Barclays has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see
from the information available, any relevant claim has most likely exceeded the time limits
set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account and (for the reasons set
out) Im not persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold Mr Ss
complaint. I dont think Barclays has treated Mr S unfairly or acted unreasonably and I cant
properly require Barclays to compensate him or do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that this service is able to consider Mr Ss complaint and having done so
I do not uphold that complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman