DRN-3926327
The complaint
J has complained about the decision of the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) to decline its Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) claim under its policy.
All references to NFU shall include its agents.
What happened
J owns some commercial property which it rents out. Js tenants complained that they had 
suffered loss and damage due to water ingress. Js directors believed that this was due to 
water draining from a poorly maintained neighbouring property (NP) onto Js property. Js 
directors arranged for works to be carried out which included raising the flat roof and 
changes to the guttering. The NPs owners then claimed that the works carried out 
constituted a trespass, were causing a nuisance and had caused damaged to their property.
Js directors made a claim on Js insurance. A loss adjusters surveyor visited and concluded 
that the works carried out were not causing damage to the NP, instead this was being 
caused by the NPs poorly maintained roof. The surveyor thought the repair of the damp in 
the NP would cost around £200-£300 and noted the excess on Js policy was £250. 
In its final response letter NFU said the LEI claim was declined on the basis that J is 
defending the claim brought against it by the NPs owners and this wasnt covered under the 
policy.
J didnt think this was a fair outcome and complained to this service. In summary it said:
NFUs decision to decline the claim was improperly influenced by its appointed 
agents who were subject to a conflict of interest because they were acting for the 
other party.
NFU relied on the exclusion about 'defence of your legal rights, but J deny its 
relevant and that defence costs are specifically included in the policy wording. 
If the exclusion were applicable, it would be an unfair term.
If it were reasonable for NFU to rely on the exclusion, then NFU has mis-sold J the 
policy.
The investigator didnt recommend upholding Js complaint. He noted that NPs lawyers and 
NFUs agents had similar names, but he was satisfied it was reasonable for NFU to think 
there wasnt a conflict of interest with the agents in the legal claim itself. He thought the 
clause excluding cover was clear and excluded the claim. He thought it was fair for NFU to 
have clauses excluding cover in certain circumstances. He noted Js directors thought the 
policy had been mis-sold but didnt agree. He said even if he did agreed J would need to 
show him another policy that it would have taken out instead that would have covered Js 
claim before he could say that but for NFUs actions J would have had the cover in place to 
pay for the legal costs it is seeking. He acknowledged NFUs delays but didnt think these 
made a difference to the way J ultimately proceeded.
J disagreed. Its representative said:
the agent and law firm referred to are both part of the same group and their financial 
interests overlap. Js representative believes that it is therefore wrong to treat the 
agents as independent and that a conflict of interest does arise in this case, because 
the agent's decision is directly beneficial to its sister company the law firm and to the 
law firm's client.
It doesnt think the wording of the exclusion is clear. It thinks the best interpretation of 
it is that it excludes cases in which the policyholder is seeking to assert legal rights 
that it holds as a property owner, for example, rights of way over neighbouring 
properties.
It thinks if the exclusion does apply, then as J is a property owner and it is 
foreseeable that a property owner might have cause to defend itself against a 
property-related claim from a third party, NFU should have advised at the point of 
sale that it would interpret the policy wording as excluding costs relating to defending 
any claim against J as a property owner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides:
WE will pay:
COSTS AND EXPENSES relating to a civil dispute relating to PROPERTY which is owned 
by YOU, or is YOUR responsibility, following:
1 any event which causes physical damage to such PROPERTY; or
2 a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with YOUR use or enjoyment of 
YOUR land, or some right over, or in connection with it); or
3 a trespass.
Please note that YOU must have established the legal ownership or right to the land that is 
the subject of the dispute.
In this case J received a letter before action in January 2020 alleging trespass, nuisance and 
damage to NP. The damage might well be covered under another part of the policy but 
wouldnt be covered under the legal expenses section because the damage covered only 
covers damage to such PROPERTY and the such refers back to the PROPERTY which is 
owned by YOU. 
The nuisance referred to in the January 2020 letter was nuisance not to Js land but to the 
NP. And therefore, it isnt covered as the clause refers to any interference with YOUR use or 
enjoyment of YOUR land.
So, the only part of the threatened action which might be covered under the legal expenses 
part of the policy is trespass. But here we have another problem as the clause says: Please 
note that YOU must have established the legal ownership or right to the land that is the 
subject of the dispute. At the heart of the dispute between J and the owners of the NP is the 
exact boundary line and whether or not Js gutters overhang it. From the papers I have seen 
I can see that the exact boundary line hasnt been established and therefore NFU would be 
entitled to decline the claim. To establish the exact ownership a boundary line agreement 
could be reached, or a tribunal decision may be necessary. Neither of the costs of these 
would be covered by the insurance.
Even if J established ownership of the land where the gutters were situated so it was clear 
they didnt overhang the NP then the claim on the policy would only be covered if none of the exclusions applied. And as NFU and the investigator have pointed out there is an exclusion 
for: defending YOUR legal rights other than in defending a counter- claim. So, the legal costs 
of defending the claim set out in the January 2020 letter wouldnt be covered. 
Js representative and directors think that if the claim wasnt covered then the relevant 
clauses are unfair, and the policy was mis-sold. All the LEI policies I have seen dont cover 
everything, thats not unfair. I think in this case it was clear that only some things were 
covered and that in particular that the policyholder must have established the legal 
ownership or right to the land that is the subject of the dispute. It is very common for insurers 
to include such a requirement so this is not an unusual clause that I would expect to be 
specifically drawn to Js directors notice. I can understand they are disappointed to discover 
they are not covered but I do not agree that the clauses are unfair, nor can I agree they were 
mis-sold. 
J did mention that there was a discharge coming from the vents of NP and this was a 
nuisance. I couldnt see that this was considered as a stand-alone claim. So, I asked J if it 
wanted NFU to look again at this. J confirmed it did not want me to ask NFU to consider this 
aspect of the claim again.
I can understand Js concern about two organisations within the same group acting as legal 
representative for one side and as agent for the insurer for the other. In this case however I 
have seen no evidence that anything improper has occurred and as I decide cases on their 
individual facts I cant say J has lost out. To put it simply, I would have expected Js claim to 
be declined and it was declined; there doesnt appear to be anything undue or improper 
about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman