DRN-4005434
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to reject a claim 
they made for storm damage under their home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr and Mrs G made a claim for storm damage to their insurer, Aviva. 
Aviva instructed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to assess the damage and establish a cause. The LA 
said the cause of damage wasnt due to a sudden one off insured event. They said the 
damage had occurred before the policy began in May 2022 and had occurred over time. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and asked us to look at things for them. They said there were 
inaccuracies provided by Avivas LA in their report. They provided a copy of a report from an 
independent engineer and said two roofers had attended the property and said the cause of 
damage was due to storm weather in September 2022. 
Mr and Mrs G told us their previous insurer (as their policy was with a different insurer before 
May 2022) instructed a LA to attend their home. They said the LA advised them that the 
damage had occurred in September 2022. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found there were no 
storm conditions that occurred around the time when the damage was identified by Mr and 
Mrs G. Following our approach to storm damage complaints, as there was no evidence of 
storm conditions, she didnt think Avivas decision to reject the claim was unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They said our website confirms that wind speed isnt always the 
only indicator in deciding whether a storm occurred. They believe storm conditions occurred 
which led to the damage and therefore have a valid claim. 
They have received opinions from three roofers and an engineer which say the cause of 
damage was torrential rain and adverse weather conditions in September 2022. They say 
there was no evidence to support the view by Aviva that the damage had occurred before 
the policy started in May 2022. 
Mr and Mrs G believe they have a valid accidental damage claim for internal damage to the 
home. They provided video footage and photos of their home to support their view. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies dont provide cover for every eventuality, but for specified insured events 
such as storm, flood or fire. Some policies offer additional cover for accidental damage. 
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the policy. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Aviva defines the term storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
 Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) - Equivalent to Storm Force 10 
on the Beaufort Scale; or
 Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours; or
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Aviva doesnt provide a definition for rainfall. Our approach where a policy doesnt provide a 
definition is to look at whether extreme weather conditions occurred at the time. We think 
there is a difference between bad weather and extreme weather. We would expect a 
property to resist damage against bad weather. 
When Mr and Mrs G first reported the damage, Avivas notes show they gave an estimated 
date of around 25 August 2022 as to when the damage was caused, with a date of around 
16 September 2022 when the damage became visible. 
Mr and Mrs G have provided information to show there were yellow warnings of thunder and 
storms in their area around 8 September 2022 which they believe was the date the damage 
occurred. However, Ive relied on the recording of local weather data rather than the warning 
as this is more accurate. Looking at local weather data for the period between 25 August 
2022 to 22 September 2022, there was no record of rainfall of unusual or exceptional 
intensity. Windfall gusts peaked at 31 mph. This is well below the threshold when deciding if 
a period of violent weather occurred. I dont dispute that there was bad weather - but in line 
with our approach and Mr and Mrs Gs policy definition of a storm - Im satisfied that the 
recorded information doesnt show storm conditions occurred. 
Ive carefully reviewed all of the evidence Mr and Mrs G have provided. But it doesnt change 
the fact that the answer to the first and third questions are no based on the available 
evidence. There is no evidence to support that storm conditions occurred - so I cannot safely 
conclude that there was a sudden unforeseen insured event that led to the water damage to 
Mr and Mrs Gs home. 
Because of my findings above, this means the reports provided by the LA and the 
independent engineer dont change the outcome. But to address Mr and Mrs Gs complaint 
about their claim for accidental damage not being met, Ive made the following observations:
Mr and Mrs G provided a roofers report which described a contributory factor to the cause of 
damage as thermal shock and spalling: that the spalling occurred due to hot and cold 
temperatures around the time of the event. Aviva considered the report and found that the 
reasons given for damage were inconsistent with occurring suddenly due to a one off event. 
It found that temperatures reached around 26 degrees one day in the week before the claim 
for damage occurred - but that the temperatures remained between 17 and 20 degrees 
afterwards. So it didnt agree the drop in temperature was rapid enough to consider the 
event as sudden, nor was the level of rainfall preceding. Spalling in this context refers to the breakdown and corrosion of materials. And by definition, 
corrosion happens over time and not suddenly. So Aviva remained of the view that the 
damage had occurred over a period of time. I dont think Avivas view was unreasonable 
here. 
This means that Mr and Mrs Gs policy with Aviva doesnt provide cover for accidental 
damage - as Avivas policy defines this term for cover as:
A single and sudden unexpected event resulting in physical damage.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G. But from everything Ive seen, I think Avivas decision 
to decline their claims for storm damage and accidental damage was reached reasonably 
and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman