DRN-3034637
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Ulster Bank Ltd handled his chargeback claim.
 
What happened
Around December 2020, Mr L contacted Ulster to dispute payments that had been taken 
from his bank account. Ulster advised him that hed need to raise a chargeback, given hed 
used the retailer(s) before. The bank also agreed to cancel his card so no further payments 
could be taken. 
The following day, Mr L noticed a further payment had debited his account and contacted 
Ulster to complain because his card hadnt been cancelled. This time, Mr Ls card was 
cancelled. Mr L says the Ulster representative who agreed to cancel his card the first time 
should be suspended and added that hed received a poor service from Ulster over the 
phone  Mr L says he spent hours on the phone and had been passed around several 
representatives. 
Ulster accepted that it failed to cancel Mr Ls card when it said it would and accepted Mr Ls 
view that the service from the bank was poor. Ulster decided to refund the additional 
payment that debited Mr Ls account because his card wasnt cancelled the first time and 
paid him £75 compensation for the poor service he received. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr L asked this service to review his complaint. Mr L raised additional 
concerns around the way his complaint was handled by Ulster. Our investigator explained 
why complaint handling issues dont fall under this services remit. The investigator 
concluded that the compensation and refund offered by Ulster was a fair way to put things 
right. She also established that Ulster hadnt raised chargebacks on all of the transactions 
Mr L pointed out  Ulster has offered to refund these payments, which the investigator thinks 
is fair.
Mr L didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me for a final review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be instructing Ulster to do anything differently and Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the calls that took place between Mr L and Ulster around the time. And its 
apparent from the call that took place on 28 December, that Ulster agreed to cancel Mr Ls 
card so no further payments could be debited by the relevant retailer(s). Ulster says its 
unclear why Mr Ls card wasnt cancelled, but agrees it made an error by not doing so.
Mr Ls card was successfully cancelled the next day, but by then another payment had 
debited his account. Ulster refunded this payment, so Mr L has been put back in the position 
he wouldve been in had the bank cancelled his card correctly the first time. So I dont think 
the bank needs to do anything more in relation to this.
Mr L refers to this error and says he received a poor service from Ulster when he telephoned 
to dispute the transactions and deal with his card not being cancelled. Mr L says he was 
passed around different Ulster representatives and was placed on hold for long periods. 
From the calls Ive heard, I can see Mr L referred to these issues during many of the 
conversations he had with Ulster.
Ulster accepts Mr Ls description of the service it provided him and decided to compensate 
him £75  for the service it provided him and for failing to cancel his card correctly. I 
empathise with Mr Ls situation. Listening to the calls, he was clearly concerned about the 
payments that had debited his account and its apparent that the poor service he says he 
received from Ulster caused a great deal of frustration. But I also note that Mr Ls card was 
correctly cancelled the next day and the only payment that debited his account was refunded 
by the bank. So in my opinion, the compensation Ulster has offered is a fair way to put things 
right  and had the bank not offered anything, this amount is within the region of what I 
wouldve asked it to pay.
Mr L wants Ulster to suspend the representative who failed to cancel his card as agreed. But 
my role isnt to punish or fine the bank or its staff  my role is to establish whether I think the 
bank has done something wrong and, if so, explain what I think it should do to put things 
right. In this instance, Im satisfied that the compensation and refund Ulster has already 
offered is a fair way to put things right. 
During the course of her investigation, our investigator noticed that Ulster hadnt raised a 
chargeback request on all of the relevant transactions. After consulting with our investigator, 
the bank recognised that it shouldve included these additional transactions as part of the 
chargeback claim. To put things right, the bank has offered to refund these additional 
transactions  which I think is fair in the circumstances.
In summary, I appreciate Mr Ls frustrations because Ulster hasnt got things right when he 
got in touch about the payments he disputed. But I think the bank has taken reasonable 
steps to resolve this matter fairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Putting things right
Ulster has already paid fair compensation to Mr L and has refunded him for the payment that 
debited his account because his card wasnt cancelled correctly.
What remains then is the additional transactions that werent included in the chargeback 
request. These payments amount to a total of £76.77  so Ulster should refund this amount 
to Mr L and include 8% simple interest from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement.
As HM Revenue and Customs requires Ulster to deduct tax from the interest, if Mr L 
requests one, the bank will need to give him a certificate to show how much was deducted.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not instructing Ulster Bank Ltd to do anything differently in 
relation to this complaint. If Mr L accepts my decision, Ulster Bank Ltd should put things right 
in line with what Ive said above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman