DRN-2901244
The complaint
Miss C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited has refused to fund the treatment that 
was recommended by her treating psychiatrist for her mental health condition. She has also 
complained that BUPA called her directly on more than one occasion when it had been 
asked not to.
Miss C is represented by her father, Mr C.
What happened
Miss C made a claim under her policy for treatment for rapid cycling bipolar disorder. BUPA 
funded an initial consultation and diagnostic tests. However it refused to fund repetitive 
transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) although her treating psychiatrist advised this was 
the most appropriate treatment for her. It said that rTMS wasnt recommended for her 
condition according to the NICE (National Institute for Health and Care Excellence) 
guidelines.
In April 2020 Miss C gave consent for BUPA to contact Mr C in relation to her claim. 
Nevertheless on three occasions during the course of her claim BUPA chose to call Miss C 
rather than Mr C.
After the first call Mr C emailed BUPA asking why this had happened and explained 
the adverse effect it had had on Miss C. BUPA anyway called Miss C directly on two 
further occasions explaining that her claim had been declined and why.
Our investigator felt that BUPA was entitled to decline the claim but that it should pay Miss C 
£300 for the poor handling of her claim and the distress this caused her.
BUPA disagreed and so the matter has come to me to review. I issued a provisional decision 
on 13 May 2021. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
Miss Cs policy does cover her for mental health conditions. However the policy terms are
clear BUPA would only cover eligible treatment, which is defined as treatment consistent
with generally accepted standards of medical practice and representative of best practices of
the medical profession in the UK. Experimental or unproved treatment is specifically
excluded. BUPA have referred to the NICE guidelines, which advises the two main types of
treatment for bipolar disorder are medication and psychological therapy.
Im pleased to note that Miss C has now had the rTMS treatment and her condition has
improved greatly. I appreciate too that rTMS is an approved treatment for depression, which
is often a large part of bipolar disorder. Nevertheless I cant ignore the fact that the NICE
guidelines dont, at this moment in time, show that rTMS is suitable to treat bipolar disorder.
It follows that rTMS wasnt eligible treatment for Miss Cs condition. This being so I cant say
that it was unreasonable of BUPA to decline to cover the treatment when it did.
However Miss C was in a difficult position. Her treating psychiatrist has explained why he 
had recommended this treatment for Miss C. He explained that she was unable to take the
medications listed in the NICE guidelines or any other drug that had the potential to increase
her weight due to her latent anorexia nervosa. He further said that psychotherapy wouldnt
be of benefit at that stage due to Miss Cs changeability of mood.
So whilst Miss C had a condition in an acute phase that was covered by her policy the
treatment being recommended wasnt eligible. I note that Miss Cs father asked BUPA what
alternative treatments are available for someone in Miss Cs condition, but I cant see that he
received a response. The NICE guidelines recommend for bipolar disorder psychological
and pharmacological interventions. Miss C was being prescribed medication in accordance
with the Maudsley Guidelines. Had psychological therapy been offered to Ms C in addition to
this and refused, then I wouldnt think it was fair to require BUPA to do anything further. But
that doesnt seem to be the situation here. Her treating psychiatrist wasnt recommending
psychotherapy. So contrary to BUPAs submission, I dont accept that this is something she
refused to explore.
In these unusual circumstances and as Miss C would have been entitled to claim for the cost
of a more conventional treatment had it been recommended, Im satisfied that it would be fair
for BUPA to make a payment to reflect that. BUPA has advised that they would usually cover
psychosocial treatment such as talking therapies so I intend to ask BUPA to make a
payment to Miss C to reflect the cost of a short course of such therapy. BUPA should 
respond to this provisional decision with the cost, subject of course to Ms Cs policy limits. 
For completeness I should add that I dont anticipate the cost will be anything remotely close 
to what the rTMS treatment cost, but my intention is not to ask BUPA to make a contribution
towards that, for the reason I have given above.
The customer service
BUPA accepts that it shouldnt have called Miss C when the request was for it not to but 
feels that an apology was sufficient to remedy the matter. Very often such things can be 
remedied by an apology but I dont think that this is such a case. I understand BUPAs point 
that Miss C accepted the calls  Ive listened to them and she was very polite. But BUPA 
was aware that she was suffering with her mental health and had claimed for treatment. Ms 
C said on one call when asked if it was ok to proceed I dont really have the head to speak 
at the moment so I think it was clear that she didnt really feel up to discussing her claim 
decline. BUPA went on to make further calls to her which her father has indicated caused 
her stress and worry. In these circumstances I think a payment is due to reflect this and I find 
that £300 is merited.
My provisional decision was that I was minded to require for BUPA to pay Ms C the cost of a 
short course of psychosocial therapy and to pay her £300 in compensation for the customer 
service.
BUPA responded that it would extremely difficult to give an indication of cost for a short 
course of therapy, as there are so may variants. It also said that if they were to take the 
decision as fair, it would mean similar consideration should be given every time it denies an 
ineligible claim. 
Miss C made no further comment, but her representative sent in evidence that the rTMS 
treatment had been paid for, totalling approximately £25,000.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision turns on the unique facts of this complaint. It wasnt my intention to suggest that 
each time BUPA denies an ineligible claim it should give consideration to paying for 
conventional treatment. If a policyholder wants to have treatment that is not covered by their 
policy then BUPA has no contractual obligation to pay. But my role is to consider what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. I am satisfied that the rTMS treatment was not 
eligible treatment for Miss Cs condition and for the reason I gave in my provisional decision I 
dont require BUPA to make any payment for it. 
However I remain of the view that alternative treatment was covered by her policy and there 
is nothing to support BUPAs submission that this is something Miss C refused to explore. It 
follows that I remain of the view that BUPA should pay Miss C the cost of a short course of 
such therapy. As BUPA has not been able to quantify what this might have been, give a fair 
estimate or respond to the suggested sum, I require BUPA to make a payment in the sum of 
£800.
As neither party made any further comments on my provisional findings regarding customer 
service I see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision I require BUPA Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Miss C £800 (the therapy cost) and
Pay Miss C £300 (compensation for customer service) 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman