DRN-3757769
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wont reimburse money paid from her 
bank account by direct debit over a number of years.
What happened
Ms M contacted BOS and asked them to recredit her account with money shed paid to her 
local council and energy company. Ms M said that she had not agreed the payments and 
they were not the correct amounts either. 
BOS looked into Ms Ms request to recredit the money under the direct debit indemnity 
policy. They said this was for use when there was an error with the payment and from the 
information Ms M had provided there wasnt enough evidence to show thered been an error 
with the payment. 
Ms M then raised a complaint about this matter. BOS reviewed the complaint and didnt 
uphold it. They maintained that the direct debit indemnity was for use where there had been 
an error with the payment. And from what Ms M had said BOS didnt think there was an error 
with the payments, as they had been taken for several years. It did though credit her £85, 
due to the service she received during this process. Unhappy with BOSs response, Ms M 
brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and they didnt think it should be upheld. He found 
that BOS had reviewed Ms Ms request, but due to how many years the payments went 
back, and as Ms M hadnt shown there was an error, he didnt think BOS had acted unfairly 
by turning down Ms Ms request to be recredited her direct debit payments. 
Ms M didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the direct debit guarantee say:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your 
bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount 
paid from your bank or building society
The direct debit guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from 
their bank in certain  but by no means all  circumstances. Its purpose is to provide 
protection to customers who have provided originators with access to their accounts in order 
to collect money. But most genuine errors in payments will usually come to light relatively 
quickly. Where thats the case, in most circumstances I might expect the bank to refund 
immediately. But where several years have elapsed without the payments being challenged, 
as is the case here, I rather think that does call into question whether the claim is genuine. In 
those circumstances, Im satisfied the BOS is not obliged to refund immediately and without 
question, as Ms M says.
In my view, the details of the direct debit guarantee Ive highlighted above clearly means that 
the entitlement to a refund isnt absolute. It requires that an error is made in the payment of 
the direct debit. Ms M has not provided any evidence that demonstrates that the payments 
she is now disputing were made in error. Based on what Ive seen, I dont believe the fair 
way to resolve this dispute would be for me to simply require BOS to refund Ms M.
In relation to the service Ms M received during her claim, I think the amount paid by BOS is 
reasonable in the circumstances and therefore I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman