DRN-4428254
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint is about a claim they made on their Alwyn Insurance Company 
Limited (Alwyn) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr A and Mrs B say Alwyn treated them unfairly.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs B made a claim on their Alwyn legal expenses insurance policy for cover to 
pursue a claim in relation to an employment dispute for Mrs B. 
Alwyn appointed their panel firm to consider Mrs Bs claim who concluded it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success, as required by the policy for cover to continue. Unhappy, 
Mrs B complained about this to the panel firm. The panel firm told Mrs B that if she wanted to 
appeal their assessment, she would need to obtain her own legal opinion at her own 
expense and if it was found that the claim had reasonable prospects of success, shed be 
reimbursed for her costs.
Mrs B went on to obtain her own legal advice from another panel Solicitor. She then asked 
Alwyn to cover the costs of the advice she obtained. Mr A and Mrs B say that Alwyn initially 
declined to cover part of these costs because they didnt accord with the panel Solicitors 
hourly rates. They also say Mrs B hadnt sought their agreement before incurring these 
costs, which was a condition of the policy. However, they later accepted that the invoice 
presented by Mrs B would be paid by them.
Mr and Mrs B are seeking a shortfall they say is payable in respect of the invoice together 
with credit card interest they say they incurred on the full amount they paid.
Our investigator considered Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be 
upheld. He said that Alwyn did reimburse Mr A and Mrs B for the costs claimed and the 
shortfall being sought by them is for a mistake their Solicitor made in billing them for which 
Alwyn are not responsible. He also said that Alwyn arent responsible for the credit card 
interest Mr A and Mrs B incurred as the policy doesnt cover these and its not fair for Alwyn 
to cover them.
Mr A and Mrs B dont agree. They say Alwyn didnt pay the invoice they presented for 7 
weeks despite agreeing to fund their claim going forward. They also say that Alwyn were 
informed about the interest that was accruing on the payment theyd made but they didnt do 
things any faster to avoid Mr A and Mrs B incurring them.
As for the shortfall, Mr A and Mrs B say that their Solicitor didnt waive the amount they 
mistakenly charged them for, so Alwyn should pay this. Because of this the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
Under no circumstances should an insured person instruct their own lawyer, accountant or 
legal representative or incur any costs before we have accepted the claim as the insurer will 
not pay any costs incurred without our agreement.
In this case Mrs B was however told by the panel firm that if she obtained a legal opinion that 
supported her claim had reasonable prospects of success, she would be reimbursed for this 
cost. Although Alwyn didnt initially agree to discharge this sum, they did later accept that the 
information given by their panel firm wasnt clear- particularly on the subject of Mrs B first 
obtaining Alwyns consent to incur these costs. So, Alwyn agreed to pay the invoice 
presented to them. This broadly accords with our approach to reimbursement of costs for 
positive opinions, following a negative panel firm assessment on merits.
The issue in dispute here is a difference in the invoice amount and the credit card interest Mr 
A and Mrs B have said they incurred in credit card interest which they say Alwyn should pay.
Ive thought about what theyve said, but I dont agree that Alwyn need to pay anything 
further in respect of what appears to be a mistake by the Solicitor Mrs B instructed. As I 
understand it Mrs Bs Solicitor has said they will waive the additional amount (£36.00) 
because the invoice was paid by credit card. As such it doesnt appear that the Solicitor was 
looking to charge for this amount. The fact that they have means that Mr A and Mrs B should 
ask for reimbursement from them directly. And its not something I think is fair for Alwyn to 
cover.
As for the credit card interest, I appreciate that the policy doesnt cover costs like this, and 
that Mr A and Mrs B chose to pay in this way. From what theyve said, they had no other 
means to make this payment. But they also didnt seek Alwyns agreement to incur the costs 
they did. So, they took their chances that theyd be reimbursed. I understand that the panel 
firm led them to think they would receive this sum back, but no assurances were given about 
how long this would take. The commitment made was to reimburse Solicitors costs but not 
credit card interest. And 7 weeks isnt an exceptionally long period of time for Alwyn to 
reimburse them for the amount incurred.  As such I dont think Alwyn should be responsible 
for the interest being claimed here.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Bs complaint against Alwyn 
Insurance Company Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman