DRN-3590134
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI). He isnt 
happy about the way it recorded claims against his commercial motor insurance policy which 
he feels increased his premiums with his new insurer. 
What happened
Mr M took out insurance through a new insurer and he feels UKI recorded two claims against 
him from June and July 2018 when he was insured with it - when it only should have 
recorded one from June 2018. 
As Mr M wasnt happy he complained to UKI and then this Service about all of this. Our 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She asked UKI about 
this and it explained that there was only one claim recorded against Mr M  this was a non-
fault claim from June 2018 which Mr M accepts.
As Mr M didnt accept this and maintains UKI told him there was a second claim recorded 
against him in July 2018, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but Ill explain why.
I must highlight that Mr M has raised a number of points in relation to this complaint that 
have been dealt with separately under another complaint and considered by another 
Ombudsman. As these points have already been dealt with I wont reconsider these issues 
again here and will solely focus on whether UKI has recorded a second claim against Mr M 
when it shouldnt have. 
I know Mr M feels he was told by UKI that there was a second claim recorded against him in 
July 2018, but Im satisfied there wasnt. Perhaps Mr M was told this in error at some point 
but UKI has clearly explained, both to Mr M and this Service, that there was only one claim 
(a non-fault claim) recorded against Mr M in June 2018 when he was insured with UKI. This 
is recorded on UKIs systems and the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), which I 
would expect it to be.
Mr M has said the recording of two claims affected his premium with his new insurer. If that 
is the case then Mr M would need to raise this with his new insurer and provide the 
confirmation from UKI that there was only one claim recorded against him and this can be 
rectified. 
Given all of this, I dont think I can say that UKI has done anything wrong here. If Mr M has 
faced any increase in premium with his new insurer in relation to the alleged phantom claim 
then he can simply advance this with them now and put this right. And as alluded to above 
and by our investigator Im unable to reconsider any of Mr Ms earlier complaint points 
against UKI as they have been dealt with under a different complaint. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman