DRN-1772204
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited settled his claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an incident and he made a claim on his policy. But he was unhappy 
that Markerstudy wouldnt pay the full cost to repair his car, and said he wanted to write off 
the car when he wanted a cash in lieu payment. He was also unhappy that Markerstudy 
issued him a cheque in settlement of his claim which meant that he had to return his hire car. 
Markerstudy paid Mr C £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Markerstudy had made Mr C a reasonable offer for the pre-accident value of his car. She 
thought Markerstudy wasnt required by the policy terms and conditions to pay for repair 
costs that exceeded the cars valuation. She thought Markerstudys offer of £350 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by its errors. 
Mr C replied that he thought he was entitled to a cash in lieu payment to restore his position 
as he wasnt at fault. He said he hadnt received enough to repair his car. He said he didnt 
want his car written off. He was also unhappy that hed been without a car for five months. 
Mr C thought he was entitled to keep the hire car until his repairs were completed. Mr C 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read that Mr C had been hurt in the accident. I can understand that he feels 
frustrated that his cherished car was damaged through no fault of his own. I can also 
understand that he wants a fair settlement from Markerstudy.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Like our investigator, Ive looked at Mr Cs policy and I can see that under section 2 it 
explains that:
The insurer will decide either to;
Repair the damage themselves; or
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it
or;
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage
It also explains that if the insurers estimate of the market value is less than the amount 
owed you may have to pay the outstanding balance and that the insurer will not pay more 
than the market value of the car at the time of the loss unless the new car benefit applies.
I think Markerstudy is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr C to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr C has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common 
term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
So I think its for Markerstudy to decide which option to take to settle Mr Cs claim. When he 
first reported the claim, Markerstudy told Mr C that his car was beyond economical repair. 
But Mr C was adamant that he didnt want his car written off. And I can see that Markerstudy 
accommodated his request for a cash in lieu offer. Markerstudy did this after considering the 
cars pre-accident market value and the estimated repair costs.
Markerstudy put Mr Cs cars market value at £980 but it later increased this to £1,436.40 to 
try and resolve matters. Mr C thought this didnt take into account the cars low mileage and 
immaculate condition. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers 
offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Markerstudys valuation was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed 
how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she checked the guides we use for cars of 
the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Cs. I can see that all the 
valuations she found were lower than that offered by Markerstudy. So I cant say that 
Markerstudys valuation was unfair or unreasonable. 
According to the policy terms, the most Markerstudy would pay Mr C to settle his claim 
would be the cars market value. So any cash in lieu payment couldnt exceed that amount 
otherwise the car would be written off. Markerstudys inhouse engineers estimated the cars 
repair costs at £1,197.00 or £1,436.40 inclusive of VAT. This would make the car repairable. 
Mr C said his garage thought the repairs would costs around £2,000. This would mean that 
the car would be beyond economical repair. Markerstudy asked Mr C for a report to 
substantiate this estimate. I think that was fair and reasonable. But I cant see that Mr C 
provided one. 
Markerstudy also explained that the cash in lieu payment wasnt meant to cover the full costs 
of repairs, but an amount up to the cars market value. I think this was in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions and so I cant say that Markerstudy acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
Markerstudy agreed that there had been delays and confusion in its handling of Mr Cs 
claim. Markerstudy also made a mistake by sending Mr C a cheque in settlement of his claim 
without agreeing this with him first. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Markerstudy accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Because the payment was made, Mr C lost his hire car before he should have. Mr C thought 
he should have had hire until his car was repaired. But this isnt provided by the policy once 
a settlement has been agreed. 
I can see that when Mr C was unhappy with Markerstudys settlement offer, it gave him the 
option of making his claim through the other insurer. Mr C decided to go ahead with this, and so Markerstudy made the necessary financial arrangements for this to happen. I think that 
was fair and reasonable. 
Markerstudy paid Mr C a total of £350 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of his claim. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
what Id require in similar circumstances. I dont require Markerstudy to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman