DRN-4002431
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr S reported an earlier fraud on his account which was refunded. The following month, 
under similar circumstances, further fraudulent activity was reported by Mr S.
Mr S believes that other persons obtained access to his account and impersonated him both 
on the phone and in person at a Lloyds branch to make transfers from his account without 
his permission.
Mr S said his phone number was changed on is account and his online banking was 
compromised, enabling others to send his funds to another account. Later, because Lloyds 
had prevented several of those payments from leaving his account, the fraudsters had 
produced a passport with Mr Ss name and impersonated him in branch. Also, various calls 
were made to Lloyds to obtain the release of the payments.
When Mr S asked Lloyds to refund the lost funds, they declined, believing him responsible 
for them and issued a notice to close the account. Mr S complained to Lloyds, but they didnt 
change their position and Mr S then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Information was sought from both parties and Mr S and his representative explained what 
had happened, in summary they said Mr Ss account was changed which allowed others to 
take his money. The account was then blocked by Lloyds and then closed.
Lloyds provided details of their interactions with Mr S and believed he was responsible for 
the transactions because a person with his passport visited a branch after the payments 
were originally blocked. Lloyds confirmed Mr Ss passport was checked under ultraviolet light 
and confirmed to be genuine. It was also thought at the time that Mr Ss debit card was 
checked, but Lloyds later didnt think this was the case.
Lloyds explained that Mr Ss registered phone number was changed a few days prior to the 
fraud taking place. They said their system sent a message about the change to his original 
number, but no contact was made by him to say this was incorrect.
After considering all the evidence, the investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and 
believed he was likely responsible for these transactions. Mr S disagreed and added further 
information which in summary was that:
Mr S was in a Lloyds branch when someone attempted to use his debit card at an 
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) at another location.
Mr S didnt know how his phone number had been changed.
Mr S later logged into his banking app to change the phone number but was 
unsuccessful.
Anyone could have taken a passport to the branch.
He didnt lose his card or change his address/ give the card or passport to anyone 
else. No one else knew his security details..
Someone else changed his details/visited the branch.
His debit card wasnt working when he went into the branch.
He replaced his passport around the time of the disputed transactions and returned 
the old one to his embassy.
 His phone was protected with codes and biometric security.
Lloyds provided further information about the transactions, including phone calls linked to Mr 
Ss account and the disputed transactions.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr S authorised the 
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the internet banking app conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised.  
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
It's Mr Ss case that his account was taken over and others impersonated him by visiting a 
branch and over the phone in order to transfer his funds without his permission.
There are some basic elements someone would need to take over an account. Mr S has 
already said he hadnt lost his card at the time, he hadnt given any of his details about his 
account to anyone else or allowed someone to use his passport. So, it seems difficult for 
anyone to obtain those necessary details about the account in order to make the transfers 
(that were later stopped by Lloyds). Lloyds have said that the registered phone number was 
changed just prior to the fraud taking place and when this happens, the original number is 
sent a message telling the user that it has been changed. This is a feature designed to 
prevent the unauthorised change of account details. But here, Mr S didnt notify Lloyds about 
it at the time. Im surprised that the change went unnoticed.In order to gain access to the online banking system, the user would need other private 
security information known only to Mr S (which hes already confirmed he hadnt given to 
anyone), so it seems unlikely that both the change in number went unnoticed and someone 
managed to obtain the necessary login details for Mr Ss account.
Additional to that was the extra steps required to release those payments, because Lloyds 
had put a block on several of them until they had spoken with Mr S. A visit took place at a 
branch the day after the transactions were blocked and Mr Ss passport was verified in 
branch. Payments were released and other conversations took place with Lloydss fraud 
team which also led to the release of other payments. Its apparent that more than one 
person was involved in these transactions. But, Mr S would still be liable if the evidence 
shows it was unlikely to have been done without his involvement.
Mr S later said his passport had been replaced around the time of the fraud and returned to 
his embassy in the UK. Mr S hadnt mentioned this until his complaint was turned down by 
the investigator and I found this unusual as it seems particularly relevant to his case. But, if 
he had sent it back, it seems unlikely it could also have been used by someone else who 
had also manged to change his mobile phone number and obtain his personal log on details 
of his online account
When considering the issue of the online access, Mr S has said he logged on to his account 
after the phone number had been changed which would seem to indicate the login details 
hadnt been changed. I also found this unusual because its Mr Ss case that his account 
was taken over, but here the only thing changed was his phone number and not any of the 
other details about the account which is generally how such accounts are treated. The 
genuine account holder is generally locked out through changes to the login details to 
prevent the theft from being stopped. But here the transactions Mr S is disputing didnt take 
place until several days after the phone number was changed. So, the timeline of events 
appears somewhat confused - if it was a genuine account takeover, the fraudsters appeared 
to have waited for a few days when they had no need to because the funds were in the 
account, unnecessarily increasing their chances of being found out. 
Mr S also maintained that an ATM transaction was made at the time he was in a branch. 
Lloyds records dont show this activity, so overall I think the circumstances described by Mr 
S arent plausible or realistic. 
Account closure
Lloyds issued Mr S with a notice to close his account which followed the terms of the 
agreement that Mr S accepted when he opened it. I think this was both a fair and reasonable 
action for Lloyds to take and I wont be asking them to change this.
Summary
On balance, I think that Mr S is more likely than not responsible for the transfers from his 
account or allowing others to move them for him. Either way, I think its reasonable for 
Lloyds to hold him liable for the transactions and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman