DRN-2025660
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2003, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr M if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
I can see that Mr M has put time and effort into his complaint. Id like to assure him that Ive 
thought about everything hes said, even if I dont address every point hes made in this final 
decision.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Ms needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr M the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
M is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr M has said throughout his complaint that he considers he was put under pressure to take 
the PPI, and that he wasnt given a proper choice about buying it. Mr M says the PPI was 
presented as part of the overall mortgage package, and that he agreed to it to get the 
mortgage he wanted. 
Ive noted everything Mr M has said and Ive also considered the documentation from the 
point of sale. 
It seems Mr M made an internet application for his mortgage, and a hard copy of the 
application form was then sent to him to sign. Lloyds says its records suggest it followed up 
with a phone call when Mr Ms application was received. 
I can see there was a section about PPI on the mortgage application form which said:
Payment Protection Insurance 
If you applied for C&G Payment Protection Plus cover, confirmation of your application is 
given at the end of this form
If you have chosen not to take out C&G Payment Protection Plus cover, you confirmed that 
you had read the Guide to Home Buying on the C&G website and understood the 
consequences of not having protection to cover your mortgage commitments should you 
become unemployed or unable to work because of sickness or an accident.
I realise Mr M considers this (together with other mortgage literature supplied at the time) 
amounted to pressure to take the PPI. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I think the 
wording above and related literature made customers aware of the risks of not having cover 
in place. But I think it also made it clear there was a choice about buying the PPI.
Ive seen nothing else to suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the 
mortgage. So from what Ive seen Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mr M aware the PPI was 
optional.
Lloyds accepts it advised Mr M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr M was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr M says his employment meant sick pay wouldve always been available if he 
couldnt work, and that his family was in a position to help him if things went wrong. 
So I can see why Mr M might consider the PPI was of no use to him.
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any benefits he received from his 
employer. And it wouldve meant Mr M could use those benefits and any family help 
to cover other expenses. So I think Mr M wouldve had some use for the policy, 
despite his existing arrangements. 
- Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations 
would have changed Mr Ms decision to buy it.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr M before 
he agreed to buy it. But Mr M took out the policy knowing he would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit.  So I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the policys exclusions or 
limitations. So I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Which means Lloyds does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
- Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair.
- To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
Lloyds has also offered to pay £50 for poor complaint handling, which I also think is fair.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
I leave it to Mr M to decide whether he wants to accept the banks offer of £50 for poor 
complaint handling.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman