DRN-3473250
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly gave him a 
£15,000 loan.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M applied for a loan of £15,000 to be repaid over a term of 72 months. The 
total cost of the loan was £24,317.28 including interest of £9,317.28 and Mr Ms
monthly repayments were £337.74.
At the time of applying, Mr M was a hospital inpatient and has said he lacked the capacity
needed to take out this loan. Hes said the loan was not responsibly lent and that proper
checks were not completed before RBS agreed this loan. Mr M has said that hed like the
debt to be written off on medical grounds, as he is currently medically unable to work and
cannot afford to continue to make the repayments.
RBS considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said it
wasnt aware of Mr Ms health circumstances until Mr Ms representative wrote to RBS. This
letter was dated March 2020 and logged by RBS in early April 2020. So, RBS has argued
that it wasnt aware of Mr Ms circumstances at the time of application and didnt agree to
write off Mr Ms debt.
Unhappy with RBS response, Mr M referred his case to our service. One of our investigators
considered the complaint. He didnt think the loan should have been approved given Mr Ms
vulnerability. He recommended that RBS remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan
and treat any payments made as payments towards the capital. He also asked that RBS
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to this loan.
RBS didnt agree with the investigators findings and reiterated that it wasnt aware at the
time of lending about Mr Ms health circumstances. However, it did agree to the
investigators compensation recommendation given what it now knows about Mr Ms
circumstances. Mr M didnt agree with how the investigator proposed that RBS put things
right for him. Mr M again argued the loan should be written off on medical grounds. He also
argued that he couldnt afford to repay the loan and would need to be declared bankrupt if
the debt wasnt written off.
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. I
requested further information from both parties. I also checked whether RBS might want to
reconsider its position. In response RBS confirmed it felt the loan was responsibly lent and 
that Mr M had sufficient means to repay it.
In March 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out the following:
The lending decision 
I didnt think RBS completed proportionate checks to ensure that Mr M could 
sustainably afford to repay the loan, given the size and term of the loan. And I 
thought that from the information RBS did have available, it shouldve been clear to it 
that Mr M couldnt have afforded to sustainably repay this loan.
Calculating fair compensation
I thought fair compensation was to remove interest, fees and charges from the loan 
and apply any payments made as payments towards the capital. And to remove any 
adverse information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file. I also reminded RBS of its 
responsibility to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically and to have regard for 
Mr Ms health circumstances now it is aware of these.
In response to Mr Ms request to write off the outstanding balance, I didnt think this 
was fair in the circumstances. I concluded that as RBS wasnt aware of Mr Ms 
vulnerability at the time of agreeing the loan, it couldnt have been expected to act 
differently in light of this. I thought that the loan in question had been applied for 
online and that there was no direct contact with RBS. I also thought that had RBS 
completed proportionate checks, I still didnt think that wouldve led RBS to uncover 
Mr Ms wider circumstances. So I didnt think it was fair to write off the outstanding 
balance.
Mr M also said that he currently couldnt afford to repay the loan and would need to 
be declared bankrupt if the loan isnt written off. I looked at RBSs assessment of 
Mr Ms financial circumstances when he requested RBS write off the loan and I didnt 
agree with the conclusions it reached. However, I also didnt think the income and 
expenditure assessment Mr Ms representatives provided was an accurate reflection 
of his circumstances. So I asked Mr M for more information about his current 
circumstances. However, after reviewing the information provided, I didnt agree Id 
seen sufficient information to conclude that he wasnt able to make any repayments 
towards the loan (to the extent that it should be written off.) So I didnt agree the loan 
should be written off. 
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further before I made a final decision. 
In response Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision. He said that whilst he applied 
online, he subsequently spoke to someone at length and as far as he is concerned, he told 
the representative at RBS that he was in hospital and unwell. Hes said he has subsequently 
been told by RBS that they were aware of his diagnosis, but it wouldve been discriminatory 
not to lend because of this. He argued that RBS did not lend responsibly and had it checked 
his records, it would have seen he was in receipt of sickness benefits and further 
investigation would have been taken. 
Mr M also disagreed with the information RBS said it relied on to make its lending decision, 
specifically that he didnt have mortgage commitments, only limited rental costs and he didnt 
have any existing credit costs. He has also asked how he would have been able to make his 
repayments given he was overdrawn at the time the loan was agreed. 
When Mr M initially asked RBS to write off the loan RBS declined stating that Mr M had a 
positive balance in his account. I concluded in my provisional decision that this was the 
remaining balance of the loan which Mr M has now confirmed. In my provisional decision I 
reviewed an income and expenditure assessment Mr M completed with a charity. Mr M has 
said he doesnt understand my comments that the level of expenditure in this assessment 
isnt consistent with his bank statements and that his income appears to be higher than 
whats been stated on the assessment. Mr M has also said that high and frivolous spending 
are a symptom of his condition and this should be met with compassion and understanding.  Mr Ms response was put to RBS. RBS confirmed the loan was applied for over the 
telephone. It has said a call recording is no longer available, however notes taken of the call 
say Mr M told RBS he was in hospital at the time so would need documents emailed to him, 
but he didnt say why he was in hospital. RBS maintained that it wasnt aware of Mr Ms 
wider circumstances until they were informed in March/April 2020 by a charity representing 
Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im reaching the same outcome as my provisional decision, I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr M. Ill explain why below. 
RBS lending decision
As explained in my provisional decision, RBS was required to lend responsibly. To do so, 
RBS needed to check that Mr M could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable way, over the 
full term of the lending. There was no set list of checks RBS needed to do, but the checks 
should have been proportionate to the circumstances of the loan which might include 
considerations about the amount borrowed, the monthly repayments, his income and so on. 
Before agreeing to lend, RBS completed a credit search and verified Mr Ms income. It says 
it also took some limited details of expenditure and estimated Mr Ms other costs. Based on 
this it calculated that Mr M would have had around £804 monthly disposable income. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont think RBS completed proportionate checks 
before agreeing to lend. Given the amount being lent and the term of the loan, I think RBS 
needed to do more to determine if Mr M could sustainably afford to repay the loan. In 
particular, I think RBS needed to gain an actual picture of Mr Ms outgoings. I dont think it 
was proportionate to estimate his monthly disposable income when considering Mr Ms 
income and the size and duration of the loan in question. 
I also explained that based on the information RBS had available it shouldve been clear to it 
that Mr M couldnt have afforded to repay the loan. I looked at Mr Ms income for the month 
prior to lending and I can see he received around £1,350 net income for this month. 
(However, I do note that some of his benefits are paid four weekly and some are paid 
fortnightly so his monthly income on average would work out slightly higher than this.) The 
loan repayment alone would have made up a substantial proportion of this income and Mr M 
wouldve needed to consistently pay this amount for 72 months. In addition, as Mr M has 
commented and as I set out in my provisional decision, Mr M was around £1,000 overdrawn 
at the time of the loan. So I think if RBS had responded appropriately to the information it 
had available at the time, it wouldve seen Mr M couldnt have afforded to sustainably repay 
this loan over the full term. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments that the expenditure figures recorded by RBS arent accurate. 
Hes said he had no existing credit repayments or mortgage commitments (which RBS has 
recorded figures for.) It might be that these are poorly labelled in Mr Ms case and for 
example mortgage costs might more aptly be described as housing costs. Particularly as he 
said he pays a nominal amount in rent as the rest is paid for by housing benefit (and its a 
nominal amount of £56 which RBS has recorded.) However, in any event, I dont think I 
need to consider this further as I agree the checks RBS completed before agreeing to lend 
werent proportionate. And that based on the information it did hold, it shouldve been clear 
to RBS that Mr M couldnt have afforded to sustainably repay the loan.Calculating fair compensation
As set out in my provisional decision, our typical approach to compensation in cases where 
we dont think a loan was lent responsibly is for the consumer to repay the principal loan 
amount. Therefore, the lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan 
and treat any payments already made as being made towards the principal amount. And the 
lender would need to remove any adverse information about the loan from the consumers 
credit file. RBS has already agreed to take these steps. 
Mr M has argued strongly that the loan should be written off on medical grounds. Hes 
argued he wasnt well when the loan was applied for and so it shouldnt have been lent. I 
dont doubt the strength of feeling Mr M has in this regard and I also appreciate that Mr M 
has shared some very personal information with this service as part of his complaint which 
may not have been an easy thing to do.
As Ive explained above, both parties now agree that RBS was aware Mr M was in hospital 
at the time he applied for the loan. Both parties also agree that at least part of the application 
was conducted over the telephone. Mr M has stated he started the application online and 
then completed it over the telephone and he says when he spoke to RBS it was a lengthy 
conversation. RBS has said the full application was completed over the telephone, but it no 
longer has a copy of the call recording. In any event, its clear there was a discussion 
between Mr M and RBS when Mr M applied for the loan. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact the telephone conversation has on my findings in this 
case. However, to write off the loan due to Mr Ms wider health circumstances, Id still need 
to conclude its more likely than not RBS was aware of these circumstances when it agreed 
the loan. Of course, its more possible that RBS couldve discovered Mr Ms wider 
circumstances during a telephone conversation than it could have through an online 
application. Ive also considered that RBS now agrees it knew Mr M was in hospital at the 
time. And I think its likely RBS wouldve known Mr M was unwell  Mr M says he told RBS 
this and its a logical conclusion to reach when someone says theyre in hospital. However, 
being aware Mr M was unwell and understanding his wider health circumstances arent the 
same. And, taking everything into consideration, Im still not persuaded that Mr M did share 
his wider health circumstances with RBS during the application. I think its most likely, that as 
RBSs records suggest, it wasnt aware until Mr Ms representatives wrote to RBS in March 
2020.
Mr M has said he was subsequently told by RBS it wouldve been discriminatory not to lend 
to him because of his conditions. Whilst I can understand why Mr M is concerned about this, 
I think there are circumstances where this would be right. However, if RBS was aware of a 
condition which may have an impact on a lending decision, Id still expect it to take additional 
steps to satisfy itself that it was lending responsibly. But as Ive explained above, I dont think 
RBS was aware of Mr Ms wider circumstances at the time of lending. 
I also dont think that proportionate checks wouldve likely uncovered Mr Ms wider health 
circumstances. I appreciate Mr M has said further investigation shouldve been taken when 
RBS saw Mr M was in receipt of sickness benefits, but I dont agree it wouldve been 
proportionate for RBS to have explored this further. I also dont know how RBS wouldve 
been able to investigate Mr Ms income further, as it wouldnt have been able to access 
Mr Ms private health or benefit records. And theres nothing I can see in his current account 
usage (including his overdraft usage) which I think couldve alerted RBS to Mr Ms wider 
health circumstances. So whilst I appreciate everything that Mr M has said, I cant ask RBS to write off this loan 
due to Mr Ms health circumstances.  
Mr M has also said that he cant afford to repay the remaining loan now and would need to 
be declared bankrupt if the loan isnt written off. In circumstances where a loan was 
irresponsibly lent and the consumer couldnt afford to repay the remaining principal balance, 
this can result in a business being asked to write off the outstanding debt. 
When Mr M first contacted RBS and asked for the loan to be written off, RBS refused as it 
argued Mr M had a balance of around £4,000 in his current account. So it argued that he 
had the means to repay this loan. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Ive 
looked back over Mr Ms current account statements and I can see the loan balance was 
paid into his current account. Mr M then subsequently made multiple cash withdrawals over 
the intervening period (from when the loan was granted to when he asked for the debt to be 
written off) which slowly reduced the balance over time. However, there isnt anything to 
suggest the principal loan was spent on a specific purpose which is consistent with Mr Ms 
testimony. Therefore, I think when Mr M asked for the loan to be written off, the balance in 
his current account was inflated with the remaining loan funds. And I dont think that 
repaying a loan out of the principal amount is a sustainable way to repay a debt. So I think 
RBS should have taken additional steps before concluding Mr M could afford to repay the 
loan. 
As explained in my provisional decision, I also considered an income and expenditure 
assessment that Mr Ms representatives provided to RBS dated March 2020 (when it asked 
for the loan to be written off). This assessment suggests that Mr M earnt approximately 
£1,139 per month and has no surplus income as he was spending just over this amount 
each month. I appreciate Mr M has said this is an accurate reflection of his circumstances at 
the time, but this isnt consistent with what I can see on his current account statements. 
Mr Ms income on his current account statement in February 2020 was almost £200 higher 
than what was declared on the assessment and this is based on benefits he receives two 
and four weekly (so his actual monthly income would have been slightly higher than this).  I 
also cant see the same level of expenditure as hes declared in the assessment. So Im not 
persuaded this assessment was an accurate picture of his income and expenditure.
 
I therefore asked Mr M for more information about his current financial circumstances. Mr M 
provided a recent copy of his bank statements and his credit search results. As I explained in 
my provisional decision, whilst these demonstrate Mr M is on a fixed and relatively low 
income, I cant see that he has much existing debt to repay or that his outgoings exceed his 
incomings. Ive therefore not seen sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr M has no means of 
making any repayments towards the loan and as such I cant tell RBS to write off the loan. 
Putting things right
So taking into consideration everything Ive said above, to put things right in this case RBS
should:
remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan account,
treat any payments already made as payments towards the capital amount and
reduce the balance accordingly; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file.
RBS should then contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan. I would remind RBS to
treat Mr M positively and sympathetically and have regard to Mr Ms wider health
circumstances in its dealings with him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against The Royal Bank
of Scotland Plc and direct it to put things right in the way Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
