DRN-3583154
The complaint
Mr S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited wont allow him to change the named 
dependant on his annuity policy.
What happened
Mr S held a personal pension with Standard Life. In 2013 he opted to take a tax-free cash 
lump sum and the rest of his pension as an annuity. Standard Life gave Mr S a number of 
choices in terms of how his annuity could be set up and paid. Those included whether or not 
to add his then partner as a dependant, so that she would receive an income in the event of 
Mr S death. Mr S opted to include his partner. So, taking account of her age and health 
along with Mr S personal details, Standard Life calculated how much Mr S annuity should 
pay. It sent Mr S various information about his annuity. In an Important Information letter 
that accompanied a policy booklet, under a heading Your dependants annuity Standard 
Life specifically named Mr S former partner (I appreciate there was an error in how her 
name was presented) and said that if [named person] survived Mr S she will be paid an 
annuity which is equal to the annuity which would have been paid to you.
Mr S and his then partner later separated. 
Mr S has since married a different partner. He asked Standard Life to change the beneficiary 
on his annuity. Standard Life has repeatedly said it couldnt do that. Mr S isnt happy about 
that, so he complained to Standard Life. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr S 
annuity had been set up correctly in line with his instructions at the time. And, as the income 
he receives is based on the options he selected when the annuity started (including the 
dependant chosen), its unable to change the annuity terms. 
Mr S wasnt happy with Standard Lifes response, so he complained to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained that 
during a call with Standard Life in 2013, it told Mr S that once set up, the annuity couldnt be 
changed. Also, after being given annuity quotes both with and without his former partner 
included, Standard Life again reminded Mr S that the policy couldnt be changed. Within a 
retirement booklet sent to Mr S there were clear warnings to say that any choices should be 
considered carefully. The investigator specifically looked into why Standard Life didnt allow 
changes of the kind Mr S was looking to make. She explained its because multiple factors 
are taken into account when calculating payments. Quotes are then given to enable the 
customer to compare how certain choices make a difference to the monthly income that 
might be received, including whether to include a dependant or not. As thats a factor taken 
into account when pricing an annuity policy, the investigator didnt feel it was unreasonable 
for Standard Life not to allow changes, after the event, of the kind Mr S was seeking. 
Especially as hed been given 30 days to change his mind once the policy was set up.
Mr S didnt agree so he asked for the matter to be referred to an Ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S strength of feeling about this matter. Especially as he says he has an 
annuity with another company and hes apparently been able to change details on that with 
relative ease. 
Ill make clear here that its not for me to comment on the actions of other companies when 
deciding Mr S complaint. And the fact that another company might do things differently, or 
allow changes to policy terms when others dont, doesnt in itself mean that Standard Life 
has done something wrong. 
My role here is to say whether Standard Life treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances and whether it made the terms of his annuity clear enough at the point at 
which Mr S bought it.
Overall, for the reasons Ill go on to explain, I think Standard Life did make the terms of the 
annuity clear enough to Mr S. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when telling him that it 
wouldnt change the named dependant on his annuity. Whilst I wont be upholding this 
specific complaint, I hope the detailed reasoning Ive given below will help Mr S understand 
how Ive arrived at this decision. 
Generally speaking, once an annuity is set up, it cant be changed. Its designed to provide 
an income for life. So, its important that the annuity holder is fully aware of their options, 
including the basis for payments (such as level or increasing) and the frequency with which 
payments can be made. Thats so theyre able to make an informed decision about whats 
best for them. Unless theyve opted to include a spouse/partners annuity or a guaranteed 
period of payment, payments generally stop on their death. For that reason, many annuity 
holders opt to include a partner when taking out the policy, so that they can guarantee some 
form of payment to them after their death. When calculating annuity payments, providers will 
then calculate the payment levels taking account of the relevant factors - such as whether a 
spouse/partner is or isnt included. 
Ive listened to phone calls between Standard Life and Mr S from around the time that he 
bought his annuity. The adviser asked him a series of questions including whether hed first 
sought advice (as it wasnt able to give Mr S advice) before deciding to buy an annuity. Mr S 
confirmed he was happy to go ahead without first seeking advice. 
Amongst the options it gave Mr S, it asked him if he wanted to add a partner to the policy. At 
Mr S request, it calculated the difference it would make to payments with and without his 
partner included. Mr S opted to add his partner to the policy. Given that decision, Standard 
Life then asked Mr S for certain personal information about his partner such as her date of 
birth and general health status. And it factored those things in along with Mr S own personal 
details when calculating the payments due. During the conversations Standard Life told Mr S 
that once set up, the annuity couldnt be changed. Mr S appeared to accept that. Similarly, 
when it sent Mr S information about the policy, his former partner was named specifically (I 
appreciate there was an error in how her name was presented) on an Important 
Information letter. Also, on page five of a retirement booklet it again mentions that any 
choices made cant be changed once an annuity is set up. So, the applicant is encouraged 
to carefully think about the choices they make. Mr S also had 30 days to cancel the policy if 
he changed his mind. 
Having considered the evidence I'm satisfied that Standard Life did enough to clearly explain 
to Mr S that he wouldnt be able to change the annuity once it was in place. 
I appreciate that circumstances can and do alter and that Mr S couldnt have foreseen the 
later changes in his personal life at the point at which he bought his annuity. Its also clear 
that Mr S thinks this complaint relates to a simple matter of making one beneficiary change 
on his policy. I appreciate that Mr S sees this as a simple administrative matter, so I 
understand his dissatisfaction with Standard Lifes responses so far.However, I think that altering the dependant on an annuity is far more than a simple 
administrative process. The reason a company like Standard Life asks for personal 
information such as dates of birth and health status is because it needs to work out roughly 
how long an annuity is likely to be in payment to the recipient/s based on those factors. And 
the amount that an annuity will pay over its term, which can be for many years, will depend 
on the holder and their dependants personal circumstances. So, whilst Mr S might feel its 
simply a matter of a name change, as his wifes circumstances are unlikely to be identical to 
his former partners, that would affect the level of payments that Standard Life would have 
calculated at the outset. 
I also thought about whether any of the other information Mr S was sent might have given 
him cause to think this type of change was possible. Later on in the retirement booklet 
(around page 11) theres a section called A pension for your dependants. That explains if 
Mr S didnt want his payments to stop on his death, hed need to opt for his partner or 
another dependant to receive payments. In other words, it doesnt suggest that such a 
payment would be made to whoever was deemed a partner or dependant at the time of his 
death. Mr S had to actively nominate a named person when taking out his annuity. And 
thats what he did. Ive considered that explanation alongside the fact that Mr S former 
partner was named specifically on the Important Information letter Standard Life sent as 
opposed to referring to a dependant in general terms. In other words, I think Standard Life 
was trying to show that it had based its calculations on that specific individuals 
circumstances. So, when taking those factors together with the other explanations saying 
that the annuity couldnt be changed, I think it was clear enough that would apply equally to 
the named dependant listed on the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman