DRN-3098416
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) and their inability to re-instate his debit 
card after hed previously reported it lost.
What happened
Mr C held a current account with BOS. On 10 May 2021, Mr C called BOS to report his debit 
card as lost. Before BOS confirmed the card had been cancelled, the line disconnected. But 
BOS continued to cancel the card as it had been reported lost.
A few hours later on the same day, Mr C called BOS back to explain hed found the card so 
it didnt need to be cancelled after all. But BOS confirmed the card had been cancelled and it 
was unable to be re-instated as this security measure was in place to safeguard Mr Cs 
account. Mr C was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr C thought it was unfair for BOS to not re-instate the card hed reported as lost. He 
explained hed needed to attend his local branches to withdraw cash during the time he was 
without a card, which was inconvenient and frustrating for him. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for this.
BOS responded and didnt agree. They explained they had a duty of care to protect Mr Cs 
account. So, when he reported it lost, they thought theyd acted fairly by cancelling it to 
safeguard his account and prevent any fraudulent activity that couldve taken place. Because 
of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the 
inconvenience Mr C wouldve been caused needed to withdraw cash from a branch while he 
waited for his new card to be delivered. But he didnt think this was because of anything 
BOS did wrong. He thought BOS acted fairly when cancelling the card as it had been 
reported lost and they needed to safeguard Mr Cs account. And he explained BOS not 
having a process in place to re-instate this was a business decision and this wasnt 
something our service could comment on. So, he didnt think BOS needed to do anything 
more. Mr C didnt agree with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been frustrating to be without his debit card for a period of time. And I recognise 
the time and effort it wouldve taken to attend his local branch to withdraw cash while he 
waited for his new card to be delivered. So, I can appreciate why Mr C would be unhappy 
with this and hold BOS responsible, especially as he had the card he reported lost available 
to him. But for me to say BOS have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they 
made an error when cancelling the card. Or, that it was unfair of them to do so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its not in dispute that Mr C originally reported the card lost. BOS have explained they 
cancelled the card because of this and I cant say it was unfair of them to do so. Id expect 
them to cancel the card as soon as possible, in order to minimise the risk of Mr Cs lost card 
being found by someone other than Mr C and used fraudulently.
So, by the time Mr C had found the lost card and informed BOS, the card had already been 
cancelled. While I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration, I cant say this was unreasonable. When 
Mr C asked for his card to be re-instated, which I think was a valid question to ask 
considering he had the card available, BOS explained they were unable to do this as 
security measures were in place on their system to prevent it.
BOS decision to implement security measures on their system to prevent cards being re-
instated is a business process. And our service are unable to comment on, or ask 
businesses to change, business processes. So, Im unable to say BOS have done anything 
wrong here.
Ive seen that BOS requested Mr Cs new card on the same day he reported his previous 
card as stolen. So, while I recognise there will have been a period of time where Mr C had to 
wait for his new card to be delivered, Ive seen no evidence to show this delay was caused 
by anything BOS did wrong.
And Ive seen Mr Cs bank statement for that period of time, which shows he was able to 
access his account and withdraw cash. So, Im satisfied he had his money available to him. I 
appreciate the need to travel to a branch wouldve been inconvenient but I dont think this 
arose from anything BOS did wrong. So, I dont think BOS need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman