DRN-4428361
The complaint
Mr W complains about AWP P&C SAs decision to turn down his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W holds travel insurance cover through his bank account. The travel insurance is
underwritten by AWP.
Mr W was due to travel abroad. Unfortunately, on the day of travel, Mr W found out the
airline had cancelled the flight. Mr W was able to obtain refunds for the majority of his
expenses, and made a claim for the remaining ones.
AWP turned down the claim. It considered the claim under the travel delay section of cover,
but as Mr W hadnt checked-in at the airport, it said he couldnt make a claim. It concluded
the event wasnt covered by the policy. Mr W queried AWPs response, as he said his flight
had been cancelled and not delayed.
AWP issued a final response letter explaining it couldnt overturn the decision to turn down
Mr Ws claim. Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to this Service about AWPs
claims decision, and its handling of his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 October 2023. Heres what I said:
Travel insurance polices dont cover all situations. The policy terms set out what risks an
insurer is prepared to cover.
Ive read Mr Ws policy terms, and these explain that cancellation cover is available in certain
circumstances. The policy then lists those circumstances - some examples include death,
injury or illness; attendance at a court of law; and redundancy.
As our investigator has explained, cancellation of a flight by an airline isnt covered for a
cancellation claim under the policy terms.
The policy also provides travel disruption cover, which covers travel delay, missed departure
or accommodation disturbance. I see that AWP looked into whether a travel delay claim
could be paid. However, Mr Ws flight wasnt delayed after hed arrived and checked-in at the
departure point - instead it was cancelled with no alternative flight arranged. So no benefit
would be payable under this section of cover either.
Ive checked the remaining policy terms, and theres no cover for Mr Ws particular
circumstances. Although I can understand Mr Ws disappointment with this, Im satisfied that
AWP correctly declined the claim under the policy terms and conditions. Mr W may wish to
contact the airline to see if he is due compensation from them.
Mr W has also complained about AWPs handling of his complaint. As our investigator has
said, we cant consider complaints solely about complaint handling as this isnt a regulated
activity. However, I think Mr Ws concerns relate to a continuation of AWPs decision to turn
down his claim, so I find I can consider this.
I see that Mr W raised his complaint on 16 November 2022, but didnt receive an
acknowledgement to this. AWP only contacted him in February 2023, when it sent him three
separate emails on the same day, which I think would have been confusing.
I also note Mr W hadnt understood AWPs reasoning for turning down his claim (as it had
referred to delay at departure rather than cancellation of the flight). He was unhappy that
AWPs final response hadnt addressed this. I think AWP ought to have explained things
clearly to Mr W.
I think AWPs handling of the matter caused Mr W unnecessary inconvenience, and I intend
to require AWP to pay him £75 compensation to recognise this.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make before I made a 
final decision. 
Mr W responded to confirm he accepted my provisional findings. 
AWP didnt respond by the deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in my provisional decision. So Ive reached the same conclusions, and for 
the same reasons. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr W 
£75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman