DRN-3177738
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Revolut Ltd have been unable to recover funds he transferred from his 
Revolut account to an overseas recipient, but which never reached that recipient account.
What happened
Mr R transferred a sum of money from his Revolut account to an overseas recipient account, 
but the money was never received by the recipient bank. Mr R contacted Revolut about this, 
but they confirmed that they transfer was showing as being completed from their end, and 
they gave Mr R details of the transfer to provide to the overseas recipient bank to help them 
locate the transferred funds for him. 
The recipient bank couldnt locate the transferred money, so Mr R asked Revolut to recall 
the transfer. Revolut couldnt recover the funds for Mr R, and so Mr R raised a complaint.
Revolut looked at Mr Rs complaint. They explained that the transfer was showing as 
completed at their end, which mean that the transferred money was no longer available to 
them. Revolut also confirmed that theyd attempted to contact the overseas recipient bank 
but hadnt received a response from that bank to their communication attempts. Because of 
this, Revolut felt that theyd exhausted what they could reasonably do to assist Mr R in 
recovering the money, and so they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Revolut had done all 
that they reasonably could to help Mr R, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mr R to have transferred money from his 
Revolut account but for that money not to have been received by the recipient bank to which 
it was sent.
However, in this instance, Revolut have been able to demonstrate that the transfer is 
showing to them as having been completed. This means that the transferred money would 
need to be located by the recipient bank, and this is because given that the transfer is 
showing as having successfully completed to Revolut, the transferred money is no longer 
with Revolut for them to be able to locate.
In these circumstances it would be expected that Revolut would assist Mr R as much as 
reasonably possible to help him and the recipient bank locate and recover the missing funds. 
Revolut appear to have done that here. And I say this because Revolut provided Mr R with 
details of the transfer for him to pass to the recipient bank to help them try to locate the 
money. Revolut also offered to try to recall the transfer for Mr R, and they attempted to 
contact the recipient bank to initiate such a request when Mr R confirmed that he would like 
Revolut to try to do this. But unfortunately, the recipient bank didnt respond.
It's difficult to see what more Revolut could have done here. The transfer was successful 
from their end, meaning that they no longer have the money that Mr R is looking for, and 
theyre provided the transfer information to Mr R and attempted to contact the recipient bank 
to try to recall the transferred funds back to them.
Im aware that Mr R has asked to see copies of the information that Revolut have sent to this 
service that demonstrates Revoluts actions as described above. However, as an impartial 
dispute resolution service, this service often receives information from businesses, such as 
Revolut, that is confidential and cant be passed on to the complainant. As such, while I 
understand Mr Rs request here, in this case Revolut have provided this service with 
screenshots of their internal systems, which they have the right to consider as confidential, 
and this means that this service is unable to forward copies of this information to Mr R.
However, I can confirm to Mr R that I have assessed the information that Revolut have 
provided and that Im satisfied, based on that information, that Revolut have attempted to 
help him recover the missing money as much as reasonably possible, as per the above.
All of which means that, while I sympathise with Mr Rs position, I cant reasonably conclude 
that Revolut have acted unfairly towards Mr R here, and it follows from this that my final 
decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Revolut to take any 
further action.
I hope that Mr R will be able to locate and recover the missing money with the recipient 
bank. And I also hope that Mr R will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman