DRN-1151168
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in March 2000. Mrs S says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
Mrs S bought the policy in March 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The sale 
took place by way of a postal application.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ss credit card application form. This 
shows Mrs S was given the option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section for 
the PPI, Mrs S was asked to sign if she wanted it added to her credit card. Looking at Mrs 
Ss credit agreement, I can see she signed for the PPI. Taking everything into account, I 
think its more likely than not Mrs S would have understood the PPI was optional. And I dont 
think she would have signed for the cover if she didnt want to take it out.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. While Bank of Scotland hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the policy 
wording from 2000, it has referred us to a copy of a policy wording from 2003  which is the 
closest copy it has to the time of sale. Because of this, I havent seen the policy wording 
from the time of sale. But based on the closest copy Ive seen and using what I know about 
these types of policies generally I think its unlikely that Mrs S would have been affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions  
so I think it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs S chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Mrs S has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer. She says she would have been entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. Having thought about 
what Mrs S has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay Mrs 
S would have received from her employer and would have paid out for longer. The PPI also 
would have paid a benefit if Mrs S was ever made redundant or in the unfortunate event of 
death.
So overall, I think Mrs S could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank of 
Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
 Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mrs S, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman