DRN-4368508
The complaint
Mr F complains about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) removing him from their 
assisted voluntary sale scheme.
What happened
Mr F had a mortgage with RBS that was secured over his residential property. He fell into 
arrears and was due to be evicted in mid-June 2022.
The eviction was put on hold when Mr F entered RBSs assisted voluntary sale (AVS) 
scheme at the end of June/early July. But in October RBS decided to remove Mr F from the 
scheme on grounds hed failed to co-operate. 
Mr F complained to RBS. In reply they said AVS is offered to customers who are fully 
engaged and who fully co-operate with all their external suppliers. Since they felt Mr F hadnt 
fully engaged or co-operated, theyd decided to remove him from the scheme.
Mr F was unhappy with RBSs response and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought RBS had treated Mr F fairly in all the 
circumstances. Since Mr F didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the paperwork and call recordings are incomplete or of poor quality. Ive noted      
Mr Fs concerns about that. But Im satisfied I have enough information to come to a decision 
that is fair and reasonable.
My decision is about the complaint Mr F originally brought to us  the way in which the AVS 
scheme was explained to him and his removal from it. Hes raised some other issues about 
what happened in the run up to the eviction date and his request for service charges to be 
added to the mortgage debt. They arent part of this complaint, and I wont address them 
here.
I may not mention all the points Mr F and RBS have made. No discourtesy is intended by 
that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Ive taken into account 
everything the parties have told us. Ill focus here on what I consider to be the key issues in 
coming to my decision. I appreciate Mr Fs strength of feeling about his complaint. However, 
whilst I understand he will be disappointed, Ive come to the same outcome as our 
investigator for similar reasons.
At the end of June 2022 Mr F signed an authority confirming he wished to take part in the 
AVS scheme and agreeing to its terms and conditions. Although Mr F didnt retain a copy of 
the terms and conditions, hes confirmed he received them and signed the authority. Hes 
suggested that since the original terms and conditions went missing, we cant be certain 
those RBS have now provided are what he signed up to. Its unfortunate the original 
paperwork isnt available. But Ive no reason to disbelieve RBS when they say the terms and 
conditions of the AVS scheme Mr F agreed to are those theyve now provided. 
The terms and conditions included that:
Mr F must work with RBSs asset managers (the managers) to get the property on 
the market as soon as he could. The managers would discuss with him the asking 
price and recommended selling price. The initial asking price could not be more than 
the recommended asking price set by the valuer and/or estate agent;
Mr F must allow arranged viewings of the property;
The managers must at all times receive Mr Fs full co-operation. If he failed to          
co-operate, the property would be withdrawn from the scheme and Mr F might 
become liable for any costs incurred. At that stage RBS might restart litigation 
proceedings;
Mr F must use the time on the scheme to find alternative accommodation to move 
into after the sale had completed; and 
Mr F must carry on paying his mortgage throughout the scheme; failure to do so 
would result in his removal from it.
By signing the authority Mr F confirmed he understood, amongst other things, RBS would 
nominate an estate agent to market the property and that failure to comply with the 
conditions of the scheme would result in Mr Fs removal from it. 
The terms of the scheme were set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, as Id 
expect in line with Financial Conduct Authority principles. I appreciate Mr F was going 
through a stressful time. But given his situation and the importance of the scheme to him, its 
reasonable to think he would have read the documents and understood the basis of the 
scheme and his obligations under it. 
The managers discussed with Mr F in mid-July how the scheme would work. And they 
followed up with an email to confirm things. In some regards the managers gave the 
impression that Mr F might have more input into the process than the terms and conditions 
of the scheme allowed. For example, they said theyd recommend an asking price to RBS 
and Mr F following the valuations and go ahead once theyd both agreed. But they made 
clear theyd be choosing the estate agents and that theyd manage the overall process. And 
they set out the expectation that the scheme would lead to a sale within 12 months.
On balance, I think it was made clear to Mr F at the outset that RBS would control the 
marketing and asking price of the property; hed be obliged to co-operate fully with the 
marketing process; and the managers would offer guidance and support in relation to the 
scheme.
RBSs reasons for removing Mr F from the scheme are, in summary, as follows:
1. Mr F wasnt fully engaged and hadnt fully co-operated with the managers and estate 
agent.
2. Mr F entered the scheme in mid-July and by mid-October discussions were still going 
on about putting the property on the market. 
3. The managers had worked hard to accommodate Mr Fs requests, but he kept raising 
new issues which wasnt in keeping with the spirit of the scheme and had led to 
delay. 4. The time the managers had spent in guiding Mr F was much more than expected and 
his actions were impacting them and the estate agents.
Mr F said, in summary:
1. The scheme hadnt operated in the way RBS had led him to believe it would. For 
example, when he agreed to take part in the AVS scheme, he was told three 
valuations would be obtained. That hadnt happened.
2. RBS were wrong to say he was responsible for all the delays that had occurred. The 
valuer didnt attend the property for a month after hed entered the scheme and there 
was a delay in September by the managers.
3. He had co-operated with the process in several ways.
4. He hadnt been aware of viewings the estate agent had arranged and it had 
subsequently been shown they hadnt let him know about them even though they 
said they had.
5. Hed agreed a way forward with the managers in October; it was unfair for RBS to 
end the scheme after that.
Although Mr F had understood from a conversation with RBS before entering the scheme 
that three valuations of his property would be obtained, the managers explained soon after 
theyd been appointed they would only get two  one from an estate agent and one from a 
chartered surveyor. Although Mr F feels he was misled, he knew the position early on. Given 
his circumstances on entering the scheme and his wish to remain on it, I think its unlikely, 
on balance, he would have opted not to go ahead if hed known sooner how the property 
would be valued  if that is what he is suggesting.
The marketing of the property was initially delayed when the chartered surveyor wasnt 
available. It wasnt until early August his valuation and that of the estate agents were both to 
hand. There was a further delay in September when the managers were investigating 
concerns Mr F had raised about the estate agents conduct and discussing things with RBS, 
and marketing of the property was paused. I agree with Mr F he cant be blamed for those 
delays. But its reasonable to look at what happened overall and whether Mr Fs actions 
meant it was fair for RBS to remove him from the AVS scheme. 
Mr F feels he did all RBS and the managers asked him to do in a timely way including 
providing a copy of the terms and conditions signature page when RBSs copy went missing, 
showing the estate agent and valuer round the property, responding to the surveyors 
questions and providing same day comments on the particulars of sale. 
Mr F was in regular discussions with the managers who spent a lot of time addressing issues 
he raised. Understandably he wanted the property to be in a good state of repair and 
decoration when it was viewed, and Ill come back to that. But he also raised several times 
concerns he had about the price at which the property had been valued and its marketing. 
For example, he said the estate agents werent appropriate given their poor history of selling 
another property in the same building and their location; the price was too low based on his 
own enquiries; other estate agents on RBSs approved list were more appropriate and had 
put a higher value on the property; the market was uncertain, but it was unlikely the property 
would sell until the spring/summer of the following year. And when he spoke to RBS in early 
September he said, amongst other things, he hadnt agreed to the property going on the 
market and he wasnt going to sell at the price being asked. 
RBS and the managers addressed Mr Fs concerns about the valuation of the property 
several times. It was reasonable for them to rely on the professional advice of the estate agent and chartered surveyor in fixing the price, even if Mr F wasnt happy with it. And the 
terms of the scheme allowed RBS to market the property at that price. So, it was reasonable 
for them to go ahead on that basis. They explained that to Mr F.
Mr F was reluctant to allow viewings until hed tidied up and carried out some works and 
redecoration to the property. That wasnt unreasonable. And I note the managers asked for 
his help in presenting the property in the best way. It was in both parties interests that the 
best price possible be obtained as quickly as possible so Mr F could afford to buy an 
alternative property and RBS could recover their loan.
I acknowledge Mr F needed workmen to carry out some minor repairs, which can take time 
to arrange. And I appreciate his point that, broadly, given he was about to be evicted, it 
wasnt surprising he hadnt done the work before he entered the scheme - although hes also 
said he was already preparing the property for sale before he received notice of eviction in 
June. But, according to RBSs notes at the time, Mr F had told them by around 8 September 
that the workmen had been, and hed done most of the decorating. I think RBS could 
reasonably expect Mr F to have agreed to go ahead with viewings by that stage even if 
some decorating still needed to be done. Mr Fs told us he was still asking to delay things by 
13 September since the property wasnt ready for viewings.
Ive considered Mr Fs point the investigation that took place after hed been removed from 
the scheme suggested the estate agents had been untruthful in saying hed agreed to 
viewings theyd arranged in early September. I note Mr F feels this is a significant issue, but I 
dont think it affects the outcome of his complaint. Thats because, against the background of 
all the concerns hed been raising, his reluctance to sell at the asking price and since he was 
still refusing to allow viewings in mid-September, it was reasonable, on balance, for RBS to 
take the view he wasnt fully co-operating at that stage. 
Marketing of the property was paused around that time while the managers reviewed things 
with RBS and looked into concerns Mr F had raised about the estate agents actions. I can 
see that works were still outstanding several weeks later since the managers proposals to 
take things forward in October included further time for Mr F to finish them. I think it was 
reasonable for RBS to expect Mr F to have completed them by then and/or to be allowing 
viewings. Since no progress had been made and bearing in mind the background Ive set 
out, it was reasonable for RBS still to have concerns about his commitment to the sale. 
Mr F says he verbally agreed the managers October proposal - although hes told us 
previously his agreement was provisional, and he was waiting for the managers letter to 
arrive before agreeing formally. Mr F didnt write back to the managers to confirm his 
agreement, although he was able to respond promptly about other issues the letter 
addressed. Ive noted Mr Fs reasons for this, but I dont think the other issues about what 
had happened in the past stopped him from agreeing how things should be taken forward. 
And it wouldnt have been unreasonable for RBS to take his failure to provide written 
confirmation into account in coming to their decision to remove him from the scheme.
I can understand RBSs decision to remove him will have been unexpected and upsetting 
given the managers proposal. But the letter said theyd confirm things with RBS if Mr F 
agreed their proposals. So, in the end it was for RBS to decide if Mr F should stay on the 
scheme. I think RBS gave fair consideration to what had happened since Mr F entered the 
scheme. And bearing all the circumstances in mind, I think it was reasonable for RBS to 
conclude Mr F had caused delay and wasnt fully co-operating as the scheme required. On 
that basis, on balance, I think the decision to remove Mr F from the scheme was fair.
Ive noted Mr F feels RBS manufactured a way of removing him from the scheme. Im not 
persuaded theres any evidence of that. And I dont think the points hes raised recently about the missing signed authority affect the outcome of his complaint. Even if the authority 
was missing, Mr F didnt dispute signing up to the scheme. RBSs and the managers main 
concerns were about his commitment to the scheme, not whether it was in place from a legal 
viewpoint. And since steps had already been taken to market the property through the 
scheme, I think it would have been in RBSs best interests for the property to be sold in that 
way if they felt they had Mr Fs full co-operation.
Mr Fs also raised concerns about the way in which his complaint and subject access 
requests were handled by RBS, and that RBS have continued to charge him interest on his 
mortgage. I dont generally have the power to consider complaints handling and subject 
access request issues, and I wont comment on them here. I note the response to Mr Fs 
complaint was outside usual timescales. But Mr F has been able to bring his complaint to us. 
The eviction has been put on hold while weve looked into things. Im satisfied I have enough 
information to come to a decision that is fair and reasonable. And its not unreasonable Mr F 
has been responsible for mortgage payments in the meantime since hes carried on living in 
the property and the mortgage hasnt been repaid. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. I note RBS told Mr F in 
responding to his complaint that he had the option of marketing the property himself. I 
understand he was concerned about damaging his chances of going back onto the AVS 
scheme if he went ahead with that. Mr F may wish to contact RBS to see if that or other 
options are available to him now. Id expect RBS to continue to treat Mr F fairly while he 
discusses his situation with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman