DRN-2112913
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy his credit card account application with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money was declined after it had been pre-approved.
What happened
Mr E sourced a credit card account on a third-party comparison website. He was redirected 
to the Virgin Money website where he completed the Card Checker and was told he was 
pre-approved for an account. Mr E went on to complete the full application, which included a 
search of his credit file, and the application was then declined. Mr E was unhappy with the 
decline as he had been told he was pre-approved, and also that a declined credit marker 
was on his credit file, so complained to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money explained that the Card Checker does initial checks using basic criteria and it 
isnt a guarantee of approval. They explained that a foot print would be left on Mr Es credit 
file as he had made an application. Virgin Money explained that the decline decision wasnt 
solely based on his credit score, but if he wanted to know more about his credit information, 
he could contact the credit reference agencies. 
Mr E remained unhappy so brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. She was happy with how Virgin Money had acted 
and thought it reasonable that a footprint had been left on Mr Es credit file. Mr E remained 
unhappy saying whilst he understood approval was at the discretion of the lender, but that if 
he hadnt been pre-approved, he wouldnt have applied. He feels the decline is having a 
negative impact on him, and it was false advertising. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E is right when he says that approval of an account is at the discretion of the lender. But 
its also important that lenders treat customers fairly in the application process. 
Ive looked at the Card Checker process to see what information customers are given. There 
are four steps to the process  About you, Address, Employment & income and About this 
check.
At the top of step one  About you - the website says Check your chances of getting a card 
with Card Checker. It also says that this wont affect your credit rating, but it gives you 
confidence to apply. 
Steps two and three are where customers input their personal information.
Step four  About this check - gives more detailed information about the Card Checker. It 
says that if customers want to go to the next step and apply for an account they will need to 
complete a full application, and then a full credit search will be done. At that time customers 
might be asked to verify their income and pass identity checks. It goes on to say that the 
same information must be entered in the full application that was entered on the Card 
Checker. 
I think Virgin Money make it clear that the Card Checker isnt doing a full credit search at that 
time, theyre doing a basic, or soft search. I think its also clear that being pre-approved by 
the Card Checker isnt a guarantee, and further checks will be done. Though I can see why 
Mr E feels the way he does as he was told he was pre-approved. Its these further checks 
that caused the application to be declined.
Virgin Money says the reason for the decline is due to differences in the information input 
into the Card Checker and information in the full application and the full credit search. For 
business confidentiality reasons these differences arent disclosed. 
I know this process has been frustrating and disappointing for Mr E who thought that being 
pre-approved was a guarantee of getting an account, but Im satisfied Virgin acted fairly in 
their processes.
Mr E is concerned about the footprint on his credit file. I want to assure Mr E that what 
appears on his credit file is a record of search done by Virgin Money. This type of search 
doesnt show whether an application was approved or declined, its just a record that an 
application was made. 
Having looked at everything that happened Im satisfied Virgin Money acted fairly and 
reasonably when processing Mr Es application. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman