DRN-3648265
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way Nationwide Building Society has handled his concerns
regarding a loan application and the subsequent information it has provided. He also
complains about the manner of reporting of an account to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr D submitted a detailed complaint to our service which sets out his concerns over a
number of aspects of his interactions with Nationwide. The initial event which triggered the
this complaint was a loan application which Mr D made in 2021. In Mr Ds own words he is
unhappy about the lack of transparency in eligibility criteria (following an application for a
loan), the waste of [his] time this [complaint] led to and, later, the denial of rights which [he]
believe[s] [he is] entitled under GDPR. Mr D also complains there were further concerns
regarding the use of his personal data and the amendment of his information. He has also
raised wider systemic issues concerning Nationwides software systems, and its wider
lending policy.
He has also complained that Nationwide has not been recording information regarding one
of his accounts to one of the credit reference agencies. Whilst this complaint was brought
separately to our service, our service and Nationwide have agreed to look at both parts of Mr
Ds complaint under one reference.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set my provisional finding as 
below:
As set out above Mr Ds complaint can be considered in two parts (albeit I accept that Mr D
considers them connected). The first aspect being his initial complaint which was brought to
our service, and the second being his concerns regarding the reporting of his account to the
relevant credit reference agencies. I will deal with each in turn.
I would also like to point out that I have carefully considered all of the information which Mr D
has provided to our service. There is a significant amount of information which he has
provided to our service, and I can assure him Ive reviewed these. The brevity of my
summarisation above, and any further, doesnt reflect the detail in which Ive considered this
complaint, but rather done in the interest of keeping matters as concise as possible and in
line with the informal role of our service.
Initial complaint
Mr D has explained to our service that his complaint is not about the refusal of the loan
application itself, but what Mr D considers to be the lack of transparency in the eligibility
criteria, and the subsequent information (or mis-information) he was provided. Mr D also
complains Nationwide has denied him access to information he is entitled to under GDPR
and that Nationwide has amended his personal information without his consent. Mr D says
he has raised his concerns with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Information
Commissioners Office (ICO) also.
Nationwide has provided a number of responses to Mr D covering various aspects of his
concerns. As highlighted above, in total, it has offered Mr D £125 in compensation. This is to
reflect the service he has received, the delay in his complaint being resolved, and errors
relating to the initial payment of compensation. Nationwide does maintain that it has handled
all other aspects of Mr Ds complaint reasonably.
From reviewing the final responses, it has sent, as well as the subsequent interactions Mr D
has had with Nationwide, Im satisfied that there have been failings which would warrant
further compensation. In particular I can see there has been contradictory and unclear
information provided to Mr D when he has raised his concerns with Nationwide. And whilst
some of Nationwides reasoning may be correct, there are instances where members of staff
have provided differing information (such as referring to keying errors, differing explanations
of Mr Ds rights under GDPR and potential reasons for the loan being declined) to Mr D
which has inevitably led to him having to raise further concerns with Nationwide. Nationwide
has also admitted that it did not action or acknowledge Mr Ds initial subject access request
as it shouldve.
Mr D has explained in detail the distress and inconvenience this whole process has caused,
which has been exasperated by his personal circumstances (such as his age, the impact on
his relationship with his wife, health and their wider living circumstances). Ive taken this into
account, and Im satisfied the way the complaint has been handled has caused considerable
distress and taken a significant amount of time to try and resolve.
Nationwide couldve provided clearer information sooner than it did, and this mayve
ultimately reduced the distress which Mr D experienced. Whilst Nationwide has now
provided as much information as it says it can, it does not mean Mr Ds concerns werent
valid when they were initially raised.
Whilst I appreciate Mr D may want further information, Im unable to compel Nationwide to
provide this, and such powers are outside of the scope and remit of this service. Nationwide
is entitled to make a commercial decision when making a decision to lend; and the reasoning
behind that is typically commercially sensitive information. Nationwide has given some
rationale for its decision, and whilst Mr D may be unhappy with this level, I dont find
Nationwides position unreasonable. Instead, Ive considered the impact Nationwides
actions have had on him, and for the reasons outlined above Im satisfied Nationwide should
do more to put things right. Ill set out my findings on the compensation amount later in this
decision.
In relation to Mr Ds concerns regarding his personal information, Nationwides systems, and
his wider concerns about its lending policy; Im not minded to make any comment in relation
to these. Ultimately our services role is resolve individual disputes between consumers and
financial institutions informally. We do not have the same powers as courts, nor do we act as
the regulator of the businesses (from either a financial or data protection point of view).
Whilst I dont doubt the depth of Mr Ds concerns regarding these issues, the concerns arent
ones I can make findings on. Instead Ive considered the overall impact of Nationwides
actions on Mr D. Mr D has explained he has already contacted the FCA and ICO, and whilst
they dont comment on individual complaints or offer individual awards for compensation, Im
satisfied they are the appropriate bodies to consider these elements of his concerns.
Reporting of Mr Ds account to the relevant credit reference agency
Mr D also raised concerns that one of his accounts with Nationwide had not been reported to
one of the credit reference agencies for a considerable period of time.Nationwide responded to this complaint by explaining that as the account was opened some
time ago there was no requirement for it to be reported to the credit reference agency. The
only marker would be if the account was defaulted.
Mr D remains unhappy with this information, as he says (and Nationwide agrees) there was
contradictory answers given about this too. He is also unhappy that only a negative marker
would be reported instead of the ongoing status of the account. Nationwide offered Mr D a
further £50 compensation to recognise the incorrect information he was initially provided in
regard to this aspect of his complaint.
Ive carefully considered Nationwides response and Im satisfied the response in relation to
the credit reference agencies is fair and reasonable. But with that being said, Im also
satisfied the incorrect information it initially provided also caused Mr D to carry out further
actions which wouldnt resolve the issue he was complaining about. This caused further
inconvenience to him, whereas had the correct information been provided he would not have
spent further time trying to resolve an issue which could not be resolved (in the manner he
wanted). As such Im not satisfied the offer of £50 is sufficient in this instance either, and
Nationwide should do more to put things right.
How Nationwide should put things right
Having carefully considered all of the information which has been provided covering both
aspects of Mr Ds complaint, Im satisfied Nationwide should make a further payment to Mr D
to recognise the distress and inconvenience it has caused. To date Nationwide has offered a
total of £175 (the combined amount across both complaints).
Having reviewed the information, Im satisfied a total award of £500 is a more accurate
reflection of the distress and inconvenience that has been caused. Im satisfied that
Nationwide has caused considerable distress to Mr D which has led to him having to send
further correspondence and carry out actions which would not resolve his complaint. It has
taken considerable effort for him to try and resolve the concerns he has raised.
I appreciate Mr D requested a compensatory payment which is significantly higher than the
amount Ive provisionally awarded, however Im not persuaded the facts of this complaint
warrant those amounts. Whilst Nationwide couldve handled this complaint better, and
provided quicker and clearer answers to Mr D, it has ultimately done this. And as Mr D has
explained himself, he is not complaining about the loan being declined, but the transparency
and effectiveness of the information he was given about why it was. Im satisfied Nationwide
has provided a reasonable explanation (albeit it took too long to do so) and it does not need
to provide any further explanation over and above what it has already done so, and as such
Im not satisfied its declining to do so means Mr D should have a higher compensation
amount.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wished to 
provide. Nationwide did not provide any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
Mr D responded disagreeing with my findings and the overall level of compensation which I 
had provisionally award. He also provided further supporting evidence. In summary Mr D 
says there is sufficient evidence which has already been provided which demonstrates that 
Nationwide changed his personal information to be something known to be untrue, without 
his consent or knowledge; and this this should be reflected in any final decision. That this 
demonstrates continued failures by Nationwide and that this should be represented in the 
compensation awarded.In relation to the issue relating to his credit file; Mr D has provided information from a third 
party provider which shows it has asked for information regarding a separate account to be 
reflected on his credit report, and this was actioned. This account Mr D says was also taken 
out a significant period of time ago.
Finally, Mr D made further representation into how the total compensatory award should be 
addressed. He made reference to the time he spent bringing this complaint to both 
Nationwide and our service; as well as the belief the evidence supplied should necessitate a 
further increase in the total award. 
As a side note, Mr D also raised administrative concerns that by accepting any final decision 
which only partially settles his concerns, it would impact any future alternative action he may 
wish to take. I wont comment further on this in the final decision, as the matters that Mr D 
raises are procedural, rather than being about what Nationwide has done (or hasnt done).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would again like to thank Mr D for the further submissions he has made. I 
appreciate he has invested a lot of time and effort into bringing his complaint. He has made 
detailed submissions, which again I have carefully considered (as well as all of the existing 
information he has provided), as well as the law, relevant industry rules, good practice, and 
guidelines which are applicable to the various parts of his complaint.
Similar to my provisional decision, I will deal with each aspect of his complaint in turn.
The initial complaint
Mr D maintains that further compensation is warranted in this instance, and that there have 
been a number of failings by Nationwide which have not been commented on in my 
provisional decision. This relates in particular to the changing of his personal information by 
Nationwide to something known to be untrue without his knowledge or consent. To reiterate 
a point in my provisional decision, the brevity of my summarisation above in respect to his 
response, and any further comments I make about it, doesnt reflect the detail in which Ive 
considered this complaint, but rather done in the interest of keeping matters as concise as 
possible and in line with the informal role of our service. I hope Mr D understands this.
As I set out in my provisional decision our services role is to resolve individual disputes 
between consumers and financial institutions. And for clarity I have considered the points Mr 
D is making in relation to his initial complaint, including the information he was given in the 
telephone calls between himself and Nationwide, including the changing of information 
without his knowledge to attempt to input the loan, when deciding the overall level of 
compensation which Ive awarded. That is to say I have considered the impact Nationwides 
failings throughout this whole complaint have had on him. And whilst I dont doubt the 
strength of feeling Mr D has in respect of this complaint, Im satisfied the overall level of 
compensation I have awarded is sufficient in this instance. 
As stated in my provisional decision Im satisfied that there has been contradictory and 
unclear information provided to Mr D when he has raised his concerns with Nationwide. 
There are instances where members of staff have provided differing information (such as 
referring to keying errors, differing explanations of Mr Ds rights under GDPR and potential 
reasons for the loan being declined) to Mr D, which has inevitably led to him having to raise 
further concerns with Nationwide. These include inputting data into the system during the application process which Mr D says was knowingly untrue, and raising wider concerns 
about how Nationwide operates, including having to escalate his concerns to senior leaders. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide couldve provided answers to Mr D sooner, and had it done so it 
wouldve considerably reduced the amount of time Mr D invested in this complaint. 
 
Im satisfied that Nationwide has caused considerable distress to Mr D which has led to him 
having to send further correspondence and carry out actions which would not resolve his 
complaint. It has taken considerable effort for him to try and resolve the concerns he has 
raised. And whilst Im satisfied that Nationwide has now answered his queries to a sufficient 
level, it does not mean Mr D has not suffered distress and inconvenience.
I appreciate Mr D may wish me to comment further on some issues which relate to 
Nationwides systems and the wider concerns that he has, but as has been outlined in my 
provisional decision, our service is not the appropriate body for that. Mr D has already 
referred his concerns to the ICO and FCA in relation to those issues which have application 
wider than this complaint, and Im satisfied that is the appropriate step to take.   
The reporting of his account to the relevant credit reference agencies
Mr D remains unhappy that Nationwide has not reported a current account to the relevant 
credit reference agencies. He has provided evidence from a third-party provider which 
demonstrates that it has asked the credit reference agencies to start reporting an account 
which was opened from a similar time period. Mr D says this is evidence Nationwide can ask 
for the reporting to be carried out but is refusing to do so.
I appreciate Mr Ds point of view in relation to this aspect of his complaint; but the action of a 
third party does not in itself mean that Nationwide has acted incorrectly in this instance. 
There are potentially a number of differences between the accounts, such as the existence 
of any credit facility, or the type of account, which could explain the ability to register the 
information. As I explained in my provisional decision I have considered the rationale in the 
final response in relation to this aspect of Mr Ds complaint, and whilst he may not like the 
outcome, Im satisfied that Nationwide has acted fairly in this instance.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied that the findings in my provisional decision should remain, it follows that I still 
think a total award of £500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This is for the same reasons that were set out in my provisional decision. Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has caused considerable distress to Mr D which has led to him having to send 
further correspondence and carry out actions which would not resolve his complaint. It has 
taken considerable effort for him to try and resolve the concerns he has raised.
I appreciate Mr D requested a compensatory payment which is significantly higher than the
amount Ive awarded, however Im still not persuaded the facts of this complaint
warrant those amounts. Whilst Nationwide couldve handled his questions about the loan 
application and this complaint better, and provided quicker and clearer answers to Mr D, Im 
satisfied it has ultimately given him sufficient answers. And as Mr D has explained himself, 
he is not complaining about the loan being declined, but the transparency and the time it has 
taken for him to get the answers he wanted.
Im satisfied Nationwide has provided a reasonable explanation (albeit it took too long to do 
so) and it does not need to provide any further explanation over and above what it has 
already done so. As such, Im not satisfied its declining to give him any more information 
about this matter means Mr D should have a higher compensation amount. Im satisfied a total sum of £500 compensation is in line with our services awards and reflects the distress 
and inconvenience Mr D has experienced.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide Building Society to 
make a total payment of £500 to Mr D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman