DRN-3300064
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has wrongly 
charged him for damage to a car he took on hire purchase.  
What happened
In April 2018 Mr C entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
agreement included the following:
You must return the vehicle together with everything supplied with the vehicle to us at your 
own expense (in accordance with the Vehicle Return Standards). If you fail to take 
reasonable care of the vehicle you will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or refurbishing 
the vehicle.
If upon return of the vehicle, the vehicle is not returned together with everything supplied 
with the vehicle and does not meet the Vehicle Return Standards, or any additions, 
alterations or replacements have been made which negatively affect the value of the vehicle, 
then you will compensate us for any loss that we may suffer. This includes any loss incurred 
whereby you have failed to maintain the vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers 
guidelines.
The Vehicle Return Standards were set out over more than two pages of the agreement. 
They explained in some detail what level of damage was acceptable as wear and tear and 
what was not acceptable  for example, by reference to length and depth of scratches. At 
the end of that section the agreement said:   
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation.
In June 2021 Mr C decided that he wanted to return the car. An initial inspection of the cars 
condition was carried out when it was collected, followed by a more detailed inspection a few 
days later. 
Following the second inspection, MBFS sent Mr C an invoice for £1,415 in relation to various 
dents and scratches to the bodywork and wheels and a missing V5 document. MBFS agreed 
to remove charges totalling £500, leaving £945 outstanding. Mr C referred the remaining 
charges to this service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the case, including the inspection reports. Having done 
so, he was not persuaded that they showed damage to one of the wheels as MBFS had 
said. He therefore recommended that one charge for £110 be removed. He thought however 
that the remaining charges were justified. 
MBFS accepted the assessment and agreed to reduce the charge by £110. Mr C did not 
agree with the investigators assessment, however, and asked that an ombudsman review 
the matter. Amongst other things, he did not believe he should have been charged if repairs 
had not been carried out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As is usual industry practice, MBFS arranged for two inspections  a fairly brief one when 
the car was collected and a more detailed inspection in a more controlled environment. Mr C 
has expressed some concern that there were two inspections. As I say, however, that is 
normal. But in any event, the key issue here is whether there was damage to the car and, if 
so, the extent of it. The best evidence of that is provided by the report of the second 
inspection. 
The investigator considered carefully the results of both inspections. Having done so, he 
concluded that all but one of the charges had been levied fairly and in line with the Vehicle 
Return Standards and guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association. I see no reason to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator about the extent of the damage. 
Mr C says too that no charge should be levied for repairs that have not been carried out. The 
hire purchase agreement however allows MBFS to charge for the costs of repairs or 
refurbishment and for any reduction in the sale value of the car as the result of damage. Its 
right to levy a charge does not therefore depend on repairs having been carried out. The 
reduction in value of the car due to damage is likely to be very similar to the cost of a repair.    
Putting things right
MBFS has agreed to the reduction recommended by the investigator. I will nevertheless 
make a formal award, so that Mr C can enforce it should he need to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Cs complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should reduce its charge for damage by £110. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman