DRN-2955441
The complaint
Mr R complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
  
What happened
In June 2017 Mr R was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. MBFS asked Mr R to pay charges for 
damage.
Mr R disputed the charges. He said the dealership had told him he wouldnt be charged for 
damage. He also said the charges were excessive.
In response, MBFS, having reviewed the inspection report, said it would credit the charges 
for the right hand front alloy because it was in line with vehicle return standards. But in 
relation to the rest of the damage, MBFS said this had been correctly charged inline with its 
pricing matrix.
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the damage exceeded fair wear and 
tear and that the charges were fair. He also said the charges had been applied in line with 
the pricing matrix.
Mr R didnt agree. He said hed taken the car to a dealer who had told him he wouldnt be 
charged for damage except for the bumper scratches. Mr R says he got the scratches 
repaired but missed one, which he accepts. Mr R said he had no recollection of a scratch on 
the front door and he doesnt think the picture is of his car. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement say that Mr R must return the car 
in good condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive also taken into account the vehicle returns standards issued by MBFS, which set out 
what is acceptable when a car is returned.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies damage to the front 
bumper, front number plate, left hand front door and right hand rear lamp. Taking into 
account the relevant guidelines, Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond acceptable wear 
and tear. The investigator has already provided a detailed analysis of the damage and the 
relevant guidelines and I agree with what he has said.
Ive also looked at the MBFS price matrix. Im satisfied that the charges here have been 
applied in line with the matrix. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the price matrix 
charges are excessive.
Turning to Mr Rs specific complaint about what the dealership said. I havent seen any 
evidence of what the dealership said, so I cant be certain that Mr R was given the assurance 
he relies on. But even if the dealership did tell Mr R that he wouldnt be charged, this doesnt 
change my decision, because the dealership and MBFS are separate entities. Moreover, 
and as Ive said, Im satisfied that the damage identified in the report goes beyond 
acceptable wear and tear, so it seems likely that the dealership either didnt see the damage 
or didnt have the necessary expertise in applying the relevant guidelines.
I appreciate that Mr R disputes the front door scratch and has suggested that the photo 
showing the damage isnt his car. I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling about this 
especially as he doesnt recall the scratch. However, theres no evidence to make me think 
that the photo isnt of Mr Rs car. or that the damage wasnt present. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the charges have been applied fairly.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman