DRN-3060178
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) havent been able to 
trace an account he held.
What happened
Mr C started saving in a sharesave scheme through his employer in 2000. His employer was 
taken over by another business and was taken off the stock market so the sharesave 
scheme changed to a savings plan. It matured in 2008 and Halifax wrote to Mr C to let him 
know the maturity value and the next steps.
Mr C wrote to Halifax in 2020 and said he wanted to close the account. He asked them to 
pay him the sum held in the account - £7,350 (£6,000 in savings and £1,350 in bonuses). 
Halifax were unable to trace the account, so Mr C raised the matter with this service. He 
explained that hed been unsuccessful in tracing the account despite taking several steps 
including:
Providing copies of previous statements and the account number of the savings 
account.
Contacting Halifax by telephone on several occasions, including calling their 
complaints line.
Visiting his local branch with all relevant documentation.
Trying to trace the account through the My Lost Account service.
One of our investigators contacted Halifax and asked them for their comments. They 
explained that they thought they felt theyd provided poor service to Mr C in regard to 
investigating his complaint. It had been passed between several departments due to the age 
and type of account he held. And despite Mr C speaking with several complaint managers, 
he hadnt been issued with a final response letter. They offered his compensation of £150 for 
the service issues and poor timeliness. 
However, having looked into the matter, they were unable to trace the sharesave account Mr 
C held. They provided evidence to show that £6,000 had been debited in 2010 and the 
account had been subsequently closed. 
The investigator then explained to Mr C that she didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She said, in summary:
The last transaction on the account was in 2010 when the account was closed, so 
she didnt think it was unreasonable that Halifax didnt have full information about the 
account as they were not obliged to keep account information indefinitely. 
Shed asked Halifax to explain why the closing balance was £6,000, without the 
bonuses as stated in the letters in 2006 and 2007. They had said it might be bonuses 
which were not applicable when the account was closed. 
They had also confirmed they'd looked into their archived files but hadnt found any 
new information. 
And as Mr C had already exhausted the Lost Account procedure, there wasnt 
anything more she could do. She hadnt seen enough evidence to say Halifax had 
made an error, so she couldnt fairly uphold the complaint. 
Mr C didnt accept her findings, and said, in brief:
He still thought Halifax had his savings of £7,350. He didnt close the account in 
September 2010, but if he had done, then the full amount of £7,350 would have been 
debited, not just £6,000. 
Hed supplied evidence that he had an account with the Halifax and the sums 
involved. He said there was no proof the account had been closed and who or where 
it was paid to.
Other than the time taken to claim the funds, hed seen nothing that should prevent 
him from accessing his savings with immediate effect. He had many accounts that 
dated back many years so this should be no different. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration with whats happened here. Its clear that hes been 
unsuccessfully trying to understand what happened to the money in the sharesave account 
for some time. Ive carefully considered his testimony and the evidence hes provided, and I 
have no reason to doubt what hes said.
Ive also considered the evidence Halifax have provided. Theyve pointed out that theyve 
checked several historic systems but werent able to find any records of the account being 
still open. They also said they checked Mr Cs old Lloyds account, but it didnt appear that 
the funds had been paid into that account, which led them to believe the funds had been 
paid to an external account.
I havent seen any evidence to show that the account was still open after 2010 - Mr C hasnt 
been able to provide any statements dated after 2008 and the evidence from Halifax shows 
that £6,000 was debited from the account in 2010. Theyve also confirmed that the entry 
from when the funds were debited is a closure notation which suggests the account was 
closed around this time.  
I appreciate what Mr C has said about the amount being incorrect and it should be £7,350. 
However, I not persuaded that this means the funds werent debited. I note that the evidence 
that Halifax have provided shows that the balances in 2005 and 2008 match with the 
statements Mr C has provided and dont include any accrued bonuses. The last entry in the 
report they provided shows that the account was closed when the entries prior to the debit 
transaction in 2010 show the account was open. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Halifax have searched their files and given this 
service all the information they have. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to require them to do more to find out what happened. Banks arent required to keep 
records of closed accounts indefinitely and will generally retain records for only six years. 
So, Im not surprised they dont have more information about exactly what happened in this 
case.
Having considered everything, and while I cant be sure about what happened, I think its 
more likely than not that the account was closed in 2010. Im not satisfied that any of the 
available evidence shows that the account is still open, and Halifax have made a mistake. 
So, I dont think it would be fair for me to require them to give Mr C the money he thinks is 
still in the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman