DRN-2223576
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service hes received from The Prudential Assurance
Company Limited in the process of accessing his retirement benefits. In particular, Mr C has
said that Prudential unnecessarily delayed the process of providing him with information and
then with financial advice, saying that if hed been aware at an earlier stage that the process
would take several months to complete, he could have sought assistance elsewhere.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 September 2020, setting out my 
reasoning as to why I though the complaint should be upheld. The content of that decision is 
set out below:
Im conscious that theres no small amount of disagreement between Mr C and Prudential 
as to what happened in this matter, and the timeline of events. But the following is my 
understanding of the basic undisputed facts of the case.
Mr C began discussions with Prudential about his and his wifes retirement options in the 
latter half of 2018, resulting in a request from Mr C to receive a call from a Prudential 
Financial Planning (PFP) partner - scheduled to take place in December 2018  to discuss 
his options, including income drawdown.
Mr C was seeking figures relating to his pension  specifically about the terminal bonus 
which might apply  so he could make a decision about the best way to take his pension 
benefits.
Mr C encountered difficulties with Prudentials process, which resulted in it paying him 
£250 as compensation for the poor service hed received.
Mr C received quotations on 7 February 2019, and upon learning the amount of terminal 
bonus which would be applied to his guaranteed benefits, he initiated a mis-selling 
complaint about the policy. That complaint has been dealt with separately.
Mr C decided to enter into drawdown rather than take the annuity offered to him. But 
largely due to ongoing discussions between Prudential and the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) as to the requirements relating to financial advice where guaranteed 
benefits were involved, the process of Mr C entering drawdown didnt complete until July 
2019.
Mr C then complained on the above detailed basis, but dissatisfied with Prudentials 
response, referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter and said the following in summary:
When Mr C initially contacted Prudential in December 2018, its licence for advice 
on this type of product was under review with the FCA. Although she could 
understand that this would have caused Mr C frustration, this was beyond the 
control of Prudential.
However, Mr C was informed that, although Prudential couldnt give advice at that 
time, he was free to seek independent financial advice. And this was something 
which he did, as on 23 April 2019 Mr C discussed the charges for the advice he 
was seeking  from a PFP partner  with Prudential. Agreement was then 
reached on a lower percentage charge.
Once Mr C had met with the PFP partner at the end of May 2019, and following 
the completion of an application form for income drawdown in mid-June 2019, 
the drawdown arrangement was set up on 5 July 2019.
The investigator noted that the policy value had reduced from that quoted in 
February 2019, but explained that this was because it remained invested until 
transferred into drawdown. She also said that this was a reasonable timescale for 
completion of the process, and that Prudential hadnt caused unnecessary delays 
here.
Mr C disagreed with some of the information which the investigator had relied upon, 
saying the following:
Hed been seeking information about the terminal bonus applicable to his policy 
since August 2018, but received basic information packs relating to the 
forthcoming vesting date of his policy.
He received no information about his actual pension in the call in December 
2018. And although he was told he would receive this by post, he only received 
another projection.
By the date of his planned retirement in January 2019, he still hadnt received the 
information hed requested. Once he eventually received the information in 
February 2019, he informed his adviser that he wanted to enter into drawdown. 
He was told that this would take between six and eight weeks to set up.
Although the quote hed received said it was only guaranteed up to 1 March 2019, 
the adviser told him that, as the process had started, this would be guaranteed. 
But if the value increased, he would receive that additional benefit.
When he spoke to his adviser in March 2019, he was told that his adviser was 
changing. And when he chased the progress with the new adviser in late March, 
he was told that the application was being processed.
In April 2019, the adviser said that the process was nearly complete, and at 
this stage a reduced fee was negotiated for the advisory process.
He was then informed in May 2019 that a new adviser was appointed to him. The 
new adviser explained to Mr C that the delay in processing the application was due 
to the discussions between the FCA and Prudential about this type of policy being 
transferred into drawdown.
Mr C was told that the process would need to begin again and Mr C expressed 
his frustration at this. But new paperwork was signed in June 2019 and the 
drawdown plan was established on 5 July 2019.
The investigator referred this back to Prudential for its further comments. It responded 
as follows:
In calls in January 2019, Mr C was still indicating that he was thinking of taking 
an annuity. But he was seeking quotations so he could refer the matter to the 
PFP partner.
It had received comments from the PFP partner for the events from March 2019 
onwards. The partner said that Mr C should have been told when the adviser changed that this was because of the policy comprising of safeguarded benefits. 
It was difficult to provide a timescale at that point for completion as such cases 
were being treated like defined benefit transfers. The case was being worked on 
in a queue. But it was unclear as to whether Mr C had been told this.
Mr C would have been told in late March 2019 that the case was being worked on, 
but this entailed getting a vesting pack and putting the case together for 
assessment by a Pension Transfer Specialist (PTS). But at no time was Mr C told 
that an application form had been completed for him. Mr C must have 
misunderstood the process.
When Mr C was told that the case was waiting approval, this would have been by 
the PTS. But at this point, Mr C also commented that his wife would be transferring 
her pension as well, but that they were waiting for this to improve in value before 
doing so. There were further details which would be required before transferring Mr 
Cs wifes pension, but when Mr C was told this, he was comfortable with the 
situation.
In April, the FCA agreed that guaranteed benefits policy transfers didnt need to 
be assessed by a PTS and Prudential took the decision to refer all such cases 
back to the original advisers.
The case was worked as quickly as possible, taking into account the addition of Mr 
Cs wifes policy transfer and the issues relating to the changing understanding of 
the requirement to involve a PTS in the process.
The investigator considered that these comments endorsed her initial view and informed 
Mr C of this. But Mr C said that the original application form had been submitted in 
February 2019. Mr C also maintained that at no point had been advised to seek advice 
elsewhere and that hed been invested in cash for the whole time instead.
The investigator told Mr C shed look further into the issue of when the application form 
was submitted and whether  and when  he was told that there might be delays.
Prudential submitted a timeline for its discussions with the FCA, in addition to a 
comparison to determine whether any loss had been incurred due to the delay in 
transferring between March and July 2019.
The investigator contacted Mr C further, confirming what Prudential had told her, in that it 
was awaiting guidance from the FCA until May 2019. But she said in February 2019, 
Prudential decided to restart the advisory process for individuals who had reached their 
selected retirement date. To ensure this was done compliantly, such transfer requests 
underwent an enhanced process  which was why Mr Cs application was transferred to 
an alternate team.
When it was confirmed in May 2019 that such transfers wouldnt require the involvement of 
a transfer specialist, Prudential took the decision to refer the applications to the original 
advisers. Unfortunately, the adviser who had previously been dealing with Mr C had left, 
and so the process needed to restart with a new one, including capturing some of the 
same details again. This would be expected in such a situation, the investigator said.
The investigator acknowledged that the delays werent the fault of Mr C, but also said 
that it seemed unlikely that Prudential could have done anything differently here  and 
that it processed the application as quickly as possible.
Mr C rejected this conclusion, however, saying that Prudential had conceded that it had 
suspended giving advice on transferring his kind of contract from November 2018 to May 2019. He queried as to why it had accepted his application in February 2019, 
without ever informing him of this or warning him that there might be associated delays.
Mr C also said that, with regard to the proposed transfer of his wifes pension into 
drawdown, this was to proceed once his application had been completed. It was included 
as part of the negotiation on the advice fee to be paid.
Mr C concluded by saying that there was still no explanation as to why the original 
application with a quoted amount of £179,743 had reduced to £179,022. There was a loss 
of interest for the time that his funds had been in limbo for five months, for the process to 
then need to start again  and ultimately return a lower amount.
Mr C thought that the minimum Prudential should do was honour the originally quoted 
figure.
In a further conversation with the investigator, Mr C also said that he acknowledged that 
a delay might have been unavoidable due to Prudentials dealings with the FCA, but his 
fundamental complaint was that he wasnt told about this. Had Prudential done so, he 
could have acted differently.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have some sympathy with Mr Cs position on this. As with the 
investigator I accept that the further guidance which Prudential was awaiting relating to 
these types of transfer would inevitably have caused delays. But on the balance of the 
available evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr C was made sufficiently aware of this, and so 
given the opportunity to take alternative action.
Prudential has itself in its submissions to this service said that there must have been a 
misunderstanding as to how the process would work. But I dont think that this was any 
failure to grasp the situation on Mr Cs behalf. I just dont think that the reality of the 
situation, with the likely delays which would be entailed, was properly conveyed to Mr C. 
As far as he was concerned, once hed submitted what he justifiably considered to be an 
application in February 2019, the transfer was being processed.
It also might be expected that, if one adviser left and another needed to take over, then 
further fact finding would be necessary  although its unclear to me as to why the 
details already recorded for Mr C wouldnt have been sufficient, given the nature of the 
proposed transfer and the enhanced compliance it was already apparently subject to. 
But the consequences of this shouldnt fairly be borne by Mr C. If further delays were 
incurred by a change of adviser, which may have caused financial loss, then I think 
Prudential should reasonably be asked to compensate Mr C for this.
Ive also thought carefully about whats been said about the fee negotiation and the 
proposal to transfer Mr Cs wifes pension. But I dont think this ought reasonably to have 
delayed matters. Its an aspect which was introduced specifically for the purpose of 
consideration of the fee which might be charged  not an integral part of Mr Cs own 
pension planning. I therefore think its likely that if hed been given the choice between 
resolving his own transfer quicker or introducing that proposal for the sake of a lower fee, 
he would have opted for the former.This does then lead me to the issue of what type of compensation would be due for a 
situation like this. Firstly, given his keenness to implement the drawdown arrangement and 
his chasing of the adviser(s), I think if Mr C had known that it could be many months before 
this happened, he would have sought advice elsewhere. And its likely that the process 
could have concluded within six weeks of him submitting an application in February 2019.
Mr C has said that his funds were effectively in limbo during the period in question. 
According to the calculation undertaken by Prudential, there was a loss in plan value due 
to the delay of approximately £3,000.
So I think a reasonable outcome in this case would be as follows:
Prudential should determine the notional value of Mr Cs subsequent drawdown plan as at 5 
July 2019, but had the transfer happened (into whatever funds Mr C actually chose) on 14 
March 2019  this is the date Prudential has already used for the comparison it submitted to 
us, which seems reasonable to me.
Prudential should then compare this to the actual value which was transferred in July 2019. 
And if it demonstrates a loss, Prudential should uplift Mr Cs current plan value by that 
percentage loss.
That payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the drawdown plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr C hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss would 
adequately reflect this.
If Mr C has taken withdrawals from his drawdown arrangement, the same percentage loss 
should be applied to those, and an additional payment made directly to Mr C, with the 
addition of 8% simple interest to that loss from the date each payment was made to the 
date of settlement.
Mr C has also been caused no small amount of trouble and upset in trying to resolve this. 
Ive noted how frustrated hes been at various points of the process  and I can 
understand why. So I think an additional payment of £200 ought be paid to Mr C in 
respect of this.
Mr C responded to my provisional findings, saying the following in summary:
The process to obtain what he thought was a fair outcome had been a long and hard 
battle and had taken almost two years.
Hed been chasing Prudential for information relating to what hed receive from his 
pension since October 2018. In order to make a decision as to whether to enter into drawdown or take an annuity, 
he needed to know what terminal bonuses would be applied, but he wasnt receiving 
the required information from Prudential.
He wasnt discussing income drawdown with Prudential in December 2018 as 
Prudential had suggested. He was simply trying to obtain up to date figures.
That process was, in Mr Cs words, a shambles and Prudential paid him 
compensation as a result.
Prudential also responded as follows:
It felt that Mr C was aware that he could have used another financial adviser at any 
time, and there was nothing on the file to suggest it had told him that once he had 
started the process with Prudential, he couldnt change adviser.
It was therefore of the view that, if Mr C thought the process was taking too long, he 
could have referred it to another adviser at any time.
It appeared that Mr C was concerned about the cost of other advisers as it negotiated 
a better deal for him. Prudential didnt think that this should be ignored and may have 
played a part in Mr Cs decision to stay with its advisers.
Prudential also confirmed that it wouldnt be possible to pay any compensation into 
Mr Cs policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to Mr C for his further comments on the background to this complaint. They 
appear to be consistent with my understanding of events as set out in the provisional 
decision.
Ive also thought carefully about the points Prudential has made in response to the 
provisional decision. But having done so, I remain of the view that the complaint should be 
upheld, and for broadly the same reasons as Ive previously set out.
Mr C could of course have referred the matter to another adviser at any point  I dont think 
he was unaware of this. But I think this rather misses the point. His expectations simply 
werent managed appropriately, for the reasons I outlined in the provisional decision. 
To reiterate, had he been told from the outset about the ongoing discussions with the FCA 
about advice requirements on guaranteed pension benefits, he could have taken the 
decision to seek advice elsewhere. And even at the point where he thought the process of 
drawdown was beginning  when he submitted the application in February 2019  he wasnt 
warned that the completion date could still be many months in the future.
So as far as Mr C was concerned, the drawdown request was being processed and ought to 
have been completed shortly, and had he moved advisers, he would have needed to start 
the process from the beginning. I therefore think its understandable that he was prepared to 
persist with Prudential in the hope that matters would be finalised in the near future.
And whilst Ive also noted the comments relating to the negotiated reduction in the fee 
payable, I dont think this was the driving force in Mr Cs decision making around taking his 
pension benefits. Given how keen Mr C was to access his benefits, and his demonstrable 
frustration at how long it had taken to even obtain information about the applicable terminal bonus, Im persuaded that if hed known that he wouldnt have access to them for another six 
months after hed submitted his application, he would have sought advice elsewhere.
Im therefore still of the view that if Mr C has been financially disadvantaged by the delays 
incurred, he should be compensated for this by Prudential. And although Prudential has 
confirmed that it wont be able to pay any compensation to Mr Cs policy, the direction as set 
out in the provisional decision allows for that possibility, and for the sum to be paid directly to 
Mr C with a notional reduction for income tax which would otherwise be payable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Prudential should undertake the calculation to determine 
compensation, along with paying Mr C an additional £200, as set out in the provisional 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020. 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman