DRN-3804814
The complaint
Mr H opened a fee-paying URCA with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) in 
January 2014. Mr H says that he believed that he had to take out this account in order to get 
a personal loan.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think BOS had mis-sold the URCA. 
Because Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that BOS mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr H was given a fair choice in taking out this account. I 
should stress, where there is a dispute about what has happened, I must base my 
assessment on what is most likely to have happened at the time. And to do that, I have to 
base my assessment on everything that is available. Firstly, I note that Mr H had held a fee-
free account with BOS prior to when he took out the URCA. So I think he would have known 
that in general fee-free accounts were available from BOS. 
Mr H said that he was told that he had to take out the URCA in order to get a personal loan. I 
note that BOS has said that by taking out the URCA he could obtain a preferential rate on a 
loan though they have not explained exactly the discount received or provided any proof of 
this. Our adjudicator said that this may have been the reason the URCA was taken out and I 
accept that this may have been the case. But even had the loan not came with a preferential 
rate I think that it is common knowledge that loans are available without having to take out 
specific bank accounts and in this instance I think its more likely that Mr H agreed to the 
URCA because of the benefits that it came with - especially the overdraft benefit.
To explain, around this time BOS charged a daily overdraft fee that was tiered depending on 
the level an account holder was overdrawn. The URCA offered a £300 buffer limit, so 
account holders would not have to pay a daily overdraft fee if they were overdrawn up to 
£300. Whereas free accounts at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee of £1 a day. 
Looking at Mr Hs bank statements around the time the account was taken out, I can see 
that his overdraft limit was reduced to £300 at the time of the URCA was taken out and that 
he frequently used this overdraft limit. This means that he avoided the £1 a day fee that he 
wouldve been charged had he had a fee free account instead. Given his overdraft usage 
around the time of the sale I think this was likely an attractive feature of the account.
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
note that Mr H did travel and based on him registering mobile phone handsets, I think he 
couldve used the mobile phone insurance if he wished to do so.
I note that Mr H did not drive, so the breakdown cover may not have been attractive to him. 
But the benefits of accounts such as the URCA are rarely bespoke and not all account 
holders can use all of the benefits that come with them. But I think Mr H could use enough of 
the benefits that overall, while I do appreciate what Mr H has said about the sale itself, on 
balance I think its more likely he agreed to the account because he was attracted to the 
overall package of benefits.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore BOS did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Mr H. It did though have to give Mr H enough information to 
decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Mr H to make 
the account seem attractive. I accept that Mr H may not have been given all the information 
about all of the benefits of the account, but I cant see anything specific that Mr H was not 
told that I think wouldve changed his decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Mr H agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that he didnt have to. And 
I think its more likely he did so because at the time he was interested in the benefits on the 
account, although I accept that Mr H may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr H. Its clear that Mr H feels strongly that the 
account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have provided 
value for money. But I cant say that an account was mis-sold just because Mr H may not 
have received value for money, I can only say an account was mis-sold if something went 
wrong during the sales process. And in this instance, I dont think that this was the case.
My final decision
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA. I therefore dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman