DRN-4305398
The complaint
Ms E complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) didnt carry out effective 
repairs under her home emergency policy to water pipes on her property causing damage to 
her home.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Ms E tells us she has experienced leaks from water pipes in 2018 and again in 
March 2020.
Ms E tells us it was agreed the entire pipe be replaced but she later established this 
hadnt happened as she experienced a further leak in November 2020 and again in 
December 2022.
Ms E tells us the leak has caused thousands of pounds worth of damage to her 
basement floor and walls.
British Gas say it didnt agree to relay the entire pipe, it tells us it had carried out an 
emergency repair and it advised Ms E that relaying the pipe was something she 
might consider and wasnt covered under the home emergency policy.
British Gas say its homecare policy covers emergency repairs, not maintenance 
cover or preventative measures.
British Gas tell us its repairs are guaranteed for 12 months, all the repairs it carried 
out were to older parts of the pipe, not to previous repairs and none of its repairs had 
failed.
British Gas say it made a goodwill gesture to Ms E in recognition of delays in the 
handling of Ms Es complaint.
In its final response letter British Gas didnt uphold Ms Es complaint. It confirmed it 
had carried out spot repairs in July 2017, July 2018 and November 2020 and it had 
recommended a relay of the entire pipe. It said the 2022 repair was unrelated to 
previous repairs.
Ms E wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator said he didnt think British Gas had done anything significantly 
wrong and that he wouldnt be asking it to do anything further. He didnt think British 
Gas had caused or were responsible for the leaks that occurred in 2022 and it had 
met its obligations under the terms of the policy.
Ms E remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
There is no dispute the policy provides cover for unlimited repairs to the water supply 
pipeline within the property boundary. 
In common with other providers there is a general condition in the policy for pre-existing 
faults:
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
 existed when you first took out the product;
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed 
by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory 
standard;
 we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, faulty 
pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete floors
I find this exclusion clear.
The terms and condition of the policy also sets out the following general exclusion: 
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it, for example damage caused by water leaks.
I find this exclusion clear, and Ive seen no evidence British Gas caused the damage.
Ms E says British Gas told her it was their responsibility to replace the whole pipe and in 
2020 it commenced this work but didnt replace the entire length of the pipe. And had it done 
so the 2022 leak would not have happened. However, Ms E hasnt provided any evidence to 
support her opinion that British Gas had agreed to replace the entire pipe. But importantly 
there were no leaks from the pipe for over 2 years, and the spot repairs British Gas carried 
out had not failed so Im not persuaded British Gas has caused the damage.
On balance Im more persuaded by the evidence British Gas has provided, and it advised 
Ms E to relay the entire pipe. The leaks occurred to an old lead pipe, and British Gas has 
carried out the repairs its required to under the policy. And whilst it chose to replace a 
section of the pipe, I find it unreasonable to expect British Gas to carry out work that isnt 
covered under the home emergency policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman