DRN-3866801
The complaint
Mr R complains that adjustments he made to stop losses for several short/sell positions on 
his eToro (UK) Ltd trading account failed to update properly. This led to the positions being 
closed incorrectly, resulting in a significant loss. 
What happened
On 18 April 2022 Mr R had 44 short/sell Natural Gas positions open with stop losses set at 
$8. He says he amended these stop losses to $8.5 but when he checked back later, they 
were still all at $8. He attempted to change them again, adjusting six of them to $8.1, but 
very shortly after all 44 positions were closed when the $8 and $8.1 stop losses were 
triggered.
Mr R complained to eToro, but it had no record of the stop losses being changed to $8.5 and 
could find no technical issues with its systems for the period in question. So, its final 
response, issued after several reviews of the circumstances and evidence, was that it was 
not upholding the complaint. 
Mr R didnt accept this. He maintained that hed definitely made the changes to $8.5. He felt 
there mustve been a problem with eToros app and pointed to several reports from other 
users who he said had experienced similar issues. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. She considered the records provided to her by eToro but could see no evidence of 
attempts by Mr R to adjust the stop losses to $8.5, only the adjustments hed made very 
shortly before the positions were closed. 
She also noted Mr Rs additional concerns that eToro had subsequently taken steps to close 
his account. She explained that shed been provided with a recording of a telephone 
conversation in which Mr R had told eToro of his emotional suffering and financial loss and 
that the hardship had led to him not being able to work. Given these circumstances, the 
investigator felt eToro had acted reasonably and in his best interests by restricting his 
account.  
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He remained adamant that hed made the 
adjustments to $8.5 and reiterated his points about the app and other users experiences. 
However, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was 
referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr R that Ive considered everything hes said, including listening 
to recordings of telephone calls with eToro and with this service. But I wont address every 
point hes made. Rather, Ill focus on the crux of the complaint. I hope hell appreciate that I 
mean no disrespect by this, and it doesnt mean I havent considered every point. Its simply 
a reflection of the informal nature of this service.
Turning to my findings, I understand Mr Rs frustration with the fact that eToro has not been 
able to provide evidence of him adjusting the stop losses to $8.5, or at least trying to do so. 
But its unfortunately the case that its often difficult to evidence something not happening, as 
opposed to something that has happened. 
Ive looked at all the evidence eToro has supplied relating to Mr Rs account activity and the 
actions completed on his account that day. It shows general app browsing and the 
adjustments of the six positions to a $8.1 stop loss just before 3.30pm, when all the positions 
in question closed, but no attempts to adjust the stop losses to $8.5.
I cant be certain that there wasnt some type of system failure, but eToro says its records 
show everything was functioning correctly that day. And Im conscious, when considering the 
wider circumstances, that Mr R had been able to successfully make a separate, unrelated 
adjustment earlier in the day and was also able to make the six other adjustments to $8.1 
successfully. 
As far as I can see, this wouldve been an opportunity for him to make the adjustments to 
$8.5, as hed originally intended. But hes indicated that the shock of seeing that his earlier 
attempts to adjust to $8.5 hadnt worked led him to make the six changes to $8.1 instead, 
without thinking. While I can understand that he mightve been very concerned and stressed 
with the situation, unfortunately adjusting the stop losses to $8.1 rather that $8.5 at this 
point, for whatever reason, doesnt lend support to his case.
I note what Mr R has said about experiencing similar problems before with eToros app  
although I note he chose not to complain about these previous examples. And also the 
reports of other users that hes referred to. But to my mind these dont suggest a systemic 
issue with eToros stop loss functionality, particularly given that  as with all providers - the 
function is not guaranteed in any event. And as such, its quite common for there to be some 
general dissatisfaction associated with it.
In summary, while I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed Ive not found in his favour, I must 
objectively and impartially weigh all the evidence. And while Ive carefully considered his 
recollections of events, on balance, given the absence of any other evidence that I consider 
supports him making the adjustments to $8.5, I find Im unable to reasonably conclude there 
was a failure on the part of eToro. Further, Im also satisfied the actions it took to restrict his 
account were reasonable considering the information he provided about his difficulties and 
not being able to work.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman