DRN-3323300
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) settled his claim directly 
with the veterinary practice instead of paying him.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr Z took his dog to the vet as it had hurt its leg. The vet confirmed the dog had 
a fractured tibia. The cost of the treatment provided came to £1,700.97. Mr Z paid £500 
towards the cost and made a claim on his pet insurance policy to cover the remaining 
amount.
Mr Z completed a claim form indicating he wished for the claim to be paid to him directly. He 
passed this form to his veterinary practice to sign and complete before submitting it to Agria.
On 6 September 2021, the veterinary practice submitted an online claim form asking Agria to 
pay the claim directly to them. Agria accepted the claim and on 13 September 2021 paid 
£1,247.16 directly to them as requested.
On 17 September 2021, the vet also signed the paper claim form Mr Z had given them. Mr Z 
then submitted the claim on 18 September 2021. Agria declined this claim as they had 
already paid the claim in full directly to the veterinary practice.
 
Mr Z complained to Agria. He wanted them to investigate it further as he hadnt given his 
authorisation for the claim to be paid directly to the veterinary practice.
 
Agria sent their final response on 30 September 2021. They explained all claims are settled 
in good faith and the online claim form indicated payment should be made to the veterinary 
practice. So, they paid the claim in line with that instruction.
They also advised that they had since spoken to the veterinary practice who confirmed they 
were owed the remaining balance. And since the claim had been paid Mr Z was now in 
credit for £46.19.
Mr Z brought his complaint to our service as he remained unhappy. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as she didnt feel Agria had done anything wrong. As Mr Z remained 
unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know it will be disappointing for 
Mr Z but Ive explained my reasoning below.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out how Agria will settle claims. It says:
If it is more convenient, your vet agrees and we agree, we can make payments 
directly to your vet. You can ask us to do this when you make a claim.
Unless you tell us to pay someone else we will always make payments to you. You 
can tell us who to pay when you make a claim.
The online claim form submitted on the 6 September 2021 on Mr Zs behalf clearly states the 
claim should be paid to the veterinary practice. So Agria have complied with the terms and 
conditions in how they settled the claim.
I understand Mr Z says he didnt authorise the veterinary practice to submit the claim but this 
isnt something Agria would have been aware of at the time of the claim. Mr Zs personal 
information and policy number was detailed on the claim form so there wasnt anything to 
suggest it wasnt authorised by Mr Z. 
Agria make payments directly to veterinary practices to make it easier for their customers 
and it isnt an unusual practice. Mr Z submitted a further claim to be paid directly to him but 
at this point the claim had already been paid to the veterinary practice, so it wasnt unfair of 
Agria not to pay the claim again.
Its unfortunate the veterinary practice didnt seek Mr Zs permission to have the claim paid 
directly to them, but this is a dispute between him and the veterinary practice and isnt 
something I can hold Agria responsible for. They acted on the initial claim form received and 
paid it in accordance with those instructions.
Mr Z is now in credit with the veterinary practice, I can appreciate why he doesnt want to 
liaise with them about reimbursement of this money. However, Agria have settled the claim 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and it isnt for them to act on Mr Z behalf to 
arrange this. It is for Mr Z to contact the veterinary practice regarding this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman