DRN-3707441
The complaint
Ms H said Skipton Building Society had reassured her that she could redeem her existing 
mortgage, pay an Early Repayment Charge, and then have this refunded if she took out 
entirely new borrowing (rather than port her previous mortgage) within six months.
What happened
Ms H said shed asked Skipton on 10 May 2022 about the costs to her of an upcoming home 
move. She said she was aware of the early repayment charge (ERC) on her mortgage with 
Skipton. So she asked, if she redeemed her existing mortgage and took out a new product 
for the full new loan amount, would she be refunded the ERC upon completion. 
Ms H said she was clearly told that she would get a refund of the ERC. Ms H said that at no 
point did they discuss, on this call, porting her existing product in order to avoid the ERC. But 
when she came to have the full mortgage interview, she was told that if she took out an 
entirely new mortgage she wouldnt get the refund after all. That was only paid if she moved 
her existing mortgage product, and effectively took a second mortgage to cover the 
additional lending she wanted.
Ms H said this wasnt how things worked in the past for her, when shed ported previously. 
And she didnt want to carry across her old mortgage, then have different end dates for her 
old and new borrowing. She complained, and when Skipton didnt uphold that complaint, she 
asked our service to look into this for her. She wanted Skipton to pay the ERC back.
In its complaint response letter to Ms H, Skipton said that although on the call of 10 May, its 
agent didnt specifically state that Ms Hs existing mortgage product would need to be carried 
over in order to benefit from the ERC refund, he did explain that, were the decision made not 
to continue the mortgage on the existing product, costs would be incurred. Skipton also said 
Ms H had previously ported her mortgage, so it thought she did understand how this works. 
Its notes from 2019 suggest that Ms H was advised then to port her existing product to a 
new home, because it was not cost effective for her to exit that lending.
That didnt fit with what Ms H had told us. She said that the last time she moved, she was 
able to take out a completely new mortgage, and still get her ERC back. So our investigator 
asked Skipton about this. And it said that when she moved in August 2021, her existing fixed 
interest rate deal was about to come to an end. Skipton cant port a mortgage when its 
about to expire, so in those circumstances it lets its customers take out a new mortgage deal 
instead. Skipton said that wasnt the case in 2022, when Ms H had around another year left 
to run on her fixed rate lending, so the standard rules of porting would apply. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms H was properly 
notified of an ERC on this fixed rate mortgage deal when she first took it out, in 2021. That 
mortgage did allow porting, but ERCs are usually only refunded if a customer keeps the 
same interest rate for the outstanding mortgage, and arranges new borrowing for the rest. 
Our investigator said hed listened to the relevant call. He thought that this call did touch on 
Ms H keeping the interest rate she was on and noted that there would be costs for her if she 
came out of the deal.
Our investigator said Skipton had explained why Ms H was able to take an entirely new 
mortgage deal in 2021, and that she had previously ported her mortgage in 2019. Our 
investigator didnt think Skipton had made a mistake here, and he didnt think it had to pay 
the ERC back.
Ms H didnt agree. She said wed completely missed the point, she was told unequivocally by 
Skipton on a call on 10 May that the ERC would be refunded as long as she took a new 
mortgage within six months of redeeming her previous mortgage. She said shed acted on 
this, now had a new mortgage with Skipton, and it wouldnt pay back the ERC. 
Ms H said that shed been entirely clear on the 10 May call that she wasnt looking to port 
her existing mortgage and add some extra borrowing. She wanted an entirely new product 
fixed for five years on the whole of her borrowing. 
Our investigator then provided a second response to Ms H, which included a very detailed 
breakdown of Ms Hs call with Skipton. He said he couldnt agree shed been misled. He said 
we had to set what was said at the start of the call within the context of what was overall a 
34 minute phone call. In that call the agent had made a number of references to porting and 
borrowing more, all of which Ms H agreed to. 
Our investigator also said that at this stage Ms Hs home was almost sold. So he didnt think 
the phone conversation on 10 May had influenced her to sell her property. 
Our investigator said Ms Hs sale and purchase in 2019 were simultaneous, so no ERC was 
charged. And our investigator said he understood Ms H had been able to take a new product 
in 2021 because her existing rate was due to expire shortly. But in this most recent instance, 
she still had a year to run on her existing fixed rate deal. Shed paid an ERC to get out of 
that, and had now taken out an entirely new and separate fixed interest rate mortgage with 
Skipton. Our investigator didnt think Skipton had to pay back the ERC it had charged Ms H.
Ms H still didnt agree, she repeated that shed been given a clear and unequivocal 
commitment to refund her ERC, by the Skipton representative. She thought we were cherry 
picking words from the conversation to avoid the complaint being upheld, despite this. She 
still felt she was £2,000 out of pocket. 
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ms H has said that she didnt understand why our investigator would note that shed been 
told about the ERC when she took out her mortgage, and then say that an ERC was properly 
charged. Our service would usually check this for Ms H, just in case theres another reason 
why she shouldnt have been charged the ERC shes paid. Like our investigator, I dont think 
thats the case here. Ms H also said she didnt think it was relevant to comment on whether she would still have 
sold her property. But if I agreed that with her, that Skipton was responsible for misleading 
her, what I would then do is look at the impact of any mistake that Skipton made, on Ms H. I 
wouldnt just assume that Skipton had to pay back the ERC, unless I could see that Ms H 
would have acted differently if shed been given different information. 
But first, I have to decide whether I think Skipton has made a mistake in what it has said. 
Both Ms H and our investigator have focussed on the content of the call Ms H had with 
Skipton on 10 May. I also think thats key.
At the start of the call, Ms H asks for reassurance about what will happen to the ERC if she 
redeems her current mortgage in the next couple of weeks, before her planned purchase. 
She said So my question, if I take another mortgage out with you, will I get that early 
repayment charge back? I accept that the agent replied yes, she would get that back. 
Ms H has been adamant that she was asking here about entirely new borrowing, at a new 
rate, not about porting her existing borrowing. But I dont think that what Ms H actually said 
to Skipton at this point, made that clear. So I dont think its surprising that when Skiptons 
agent replies, hes talking about an ordinary porting situation. 
Ms H would like me to agree that Skipton had understood this question in the same way she 
had intended it. But I just dont think it did. And in the context where she was redeeming the 
existing mortgage well before her intended future purchase, referring to another mortgage 
doesnt seem to me to make clear that shes not talking about porting, and isnt interested in 
resuming her previous lending on her existing rate. 
I think that is particularly the case in the overall context of this call. Ms H has also argued 
that the context of the call is important, she said that at no point was porting her existing 
product in order to avoid the ERC discussed on this call. But I think that porting is, in fact, the 
only thing the agent referred to. And I think that ought to have been clear at the time, 
because Ms H did repeatedly confirm on this call that she wanted to port her mortgage. 
As examples of this, Ms H was later asked to confirm she has a mortgage with Skipton, and 
wants to port her mortgage  is that correct? Ms H said yes, and there will be some 
additional borrowing. Then again, later in the call, the agent says you are quite literally just 
purchasing a new property and porting your mortgage across. Again, Ms H replies yes. 
So it does seem to me to be reasonable for Skiptons agent to have thought that Ms H was 
talking about porting at the start of the call. And I think its clear through the rest of the call, 
that this is the basis on which hes advising Ms H.
Ms H told us she hadnt understood how porting works, from her previous experiences. 
Whilst our investigator has discussed why a previous mortgage application in 2021 was 
treated differently, and Ms H was able to take out a new mortgage product then, I dont think 
thats directly relevant for these purposes. Thats because I havent heard anything on the 
call of 10 May, or seen anything in the other evidence that Skipton has supplied, to suggest 
that it would be Skiptons fault if Ms H had indeed misunderstood how porting ordinarily 
works.
Ms H then had a later call with Skipton, and she tells us that in this call, its agent set out that 
she would not be able to reclaim the ERC shed paid, if she took out an entirely new 
mortgage product, rather than keeping the amount of her previous borrowing on her previous 
rate. So Im satisfied that when Ms H then went ahead with an entirely new mortgage product, covering all her borrowing, at a new fixed rate, she did so knowing that she wouldnt 
get the ERC back. 
Because I dont think that any previous misapprehension on Ms Hs part was Skiptons fault, 
and because Ms H had clearly understood the consequences of her new mortgage deal 
before she took that out, I dont think Skipton has to repay the ERC shes paid now. 
I know that Ms H will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman