DRN-1687377
 
The complaint
Miss I complains that Nationwide Building Society told her that her overdraft facility would 
not be removed but later removed it. She also complains that it told her she agreed that her 
account be defaulted when she did not agree.
What happened
Miss I says she received a letter from Nationwide telling her that her overdraft facility would 
be removed. She says she spoke to Nationwide on 14 October 2019 and was told the 
overdraft would not be removed but it was later removed. Miss I says she then received a 
default notice and a letter telling her that she had agreed her account should be defaulted. 
She says she is not happy with account charges and would like those refunded and her 
overdraft facility reinstated.
Nationwide says it told Miss I in September 2019 that it would be removing her overdraft 
facility in line with account terms and conditions. It accepts Miss I spoke to it in October 
2019. But doesn't accept she was told the overdraft would not be removed, and it wasn't 
discussed. It also says it spoke to Miss I again in November 2019 and told her the account 
would be defaulted as she didn't have a fixed income and so couldn't agree a repayment 
plan with her.
Miss I brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the overdraft was repayable on demand and so Nationwide acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions by removing it. The investigator thought Miss I had told 
Nationwide she had no fixed income and was not able to repay the overdraft and so didn't 
think it acted unfairly by sending the default notice. The investigator explained that we 
couldn't look at the size of the charges, which Miss I understood. And thought the advisor 
didn't say the overdraft would remain or be removed.
Miss I doesn't accept that view and has asked for it to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I'm satisfied Nationwide told Miss I that it would remove the overdraft facility and is entitled to 
do so in line with the agreed account terms and conditions. I'm satisfied an overdraft is 
repayable on demand and so Nationwide didn't make a mistake or act unfairly in these 
circumstances by removing the facility.
I appreciate Miss I says she was told by Nationwide in the call on 14 October 2019 that the 
facility would remain. I have listened to the call and I'm satisfied Miss I wasn't told the 
overdraft facility would remain and don't think the removal was discussed at all. I also think Miss I ought to have raised the issue if she wanted further information about it. I think that 
call was primarily about Miss I's financial position and the refund of charges which I can see 
she now accepts that we can't look at the size of those charges. I also think that the reason 
Nationwide couldn't send Miss I text messages was that she hadn't updated it with her new 
telephone number. I also don't think it matters that the removal wasn't discussed as I have 
explained the overdraft was repayable on demand at any stage.
I'm satisfied Nationwide explored various options with Miss I, but she didn't have a fixed 
income and was unable to make a repayment proposal. So I don't think Nationwide made a 
mistake by sending the default notice as I think it was clear at that stage that the relationship 
had broken down between the parties and there was no realistic alternative options.
Overall I'm satisfied Nationwide tried to help Miss I but unfortunately due to her financial 
position it was not possible to offer any alternatives to defaulting the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman