DRN-4153282
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) decision to 
decline a storm claim made under their buildings insurance policy.
 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr K contacted RSA to make a claim. He said the roof of their house had 
been damaged by storm conditions, allowing water to get in.
RSA arranged for an inspection to take place. The surveyor said the internal water damage 
to the bedroom looked as though it had occurred over a long period of time. They also said 
the damage to the main roof and flat roof were not consistent with storm damage. RSA 
declined the claim. 
Mr K and Mrs K complained. RSA issued a final response letter in January 2023 but didnt 
change the decision to decline the claim. 
Unhappy with RSAs response, Mr K and Mrs K referred their complaint to us. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt think RSA had acted unfairly in declining 
the claim. As Mr K and Mrs K didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first question wed consider in storm claims is whether storm conditions occurred at the 
time the damage was identified. RSA says while there were high winds these didnt, in 
themselves, constitute storm conditions, But RSA says the winds were higher than normal 
so considered the damage under the storm clause of the policy. I think it was fair for it to 
take this position.  
Ive moved on to the second question, which is whether the damage claimed for is consistent 
with the kind of damage that can be caused by storms. Mr K and Mrs K are claiming for 
water ingress in their property, from the flat roof and main roof of the house. Depending on 
how and why the water is entering their property, this might be consistent with the kind of 
damage caused by storm conditions.
Ive gone on to consider if the storm conditions were the cause of the damage. RSA says the 
damage Mr K claimed for occurred over time and wasnt caused by a one-off event. Ive 
considered whether it was fair for RSA to reach that conclusion.
Ive considered the findings of the surveyors report. In relation to the flat roof and 
acknowledge what Mr K said about this being installed only a few years before. But the 
images and the findings of the surveyor were that the damage to the flat roof was that it was 
bubbling and peeling away. The surveyor concluded the damage to the flat roof was not 
caused by storm conditions. Having considered the evidence provided by both sides, Im 
inclined to agree, the bubbling and peeling shown in the images are not consistent with the 
kind of damage often caused by storm conditions. Im not going to require RSA to take any 
further action in respect of this part of the claim.
Ill turn now to the damage to the interior of the property under the main roof. The surveyor 
made the finding the damage had occurred over time. And on balance, I consider RSAs 
argument persuasive. The surveyor highlighted what appeared to be a hole in a facia board 
and moss in guttering which could have led to the water ingress occurring over time. 
The surveyor also made the findings the internal water damage didnt look fresh. He 
highlighted peeling paint and provided photographs showing staining, particularly that at the 
top of the cupboards. This appears to be significant and, given the differences in patterns of 
staining, does look to have been there for some time. On balance, while the damage may 
have been noticed following storm conditions, Im persuaded by RSAs findings the damage 
occurred over time and wasnt caused by storm conditions.
I appreciate that my decision wont be the one Mr K and Mrs K are hoping for. Im sorry for 
this. However, given my findings Im not going to require RSA to take any further action in 
respect of this claim. 
 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman