DRN-3247143
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that AWP Assistance UK Ltd (AWP) declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Y Mr and Mrs L have explained that they took out an annual-multi trip insurance policy in 
June 2019. This was because they had booked a holiday of a lifetime, for Mrs Ls birthday. 
Mr and Mrs L have said that when they booked the trip, they also explained that they wanted 
to purchase the best insurance it was possible to take out  so that it covered all 
eventualities. And so, when they took out a travel insurance policy, through their holiday 
provider, they thought this is what they had been given.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs L embarked on their trip. But nearing the end of the touring 
part of their trip they became aware of the problems the world was experiencing with 
Coronavirus. Theyve explained that the Foreign Commonwealth and Development office 
(FCDO) issued information advising people to return home. And so, on 23 March 2020 they 
boarded a flight back to the UK. This was earlier than originally planned. 
Returning to the UK early meant that Mr and Mrs L had to change their flights, which they 
explained cost them more. They also missed out on three days of their motor home hire. 
And, on a trip to another destination they had planned on visiting, before their return home. 
Mr and Mrs L have said that in total, by coming home early, they lost around £2,700 in flights 
and unused holiday bookings. Given their loss  Mr L raised a claim under the motor 
insurance policy. 
AWP considered the claim but declined it. It said the policy Mr and Mrs L had purchased 
didnt cover them in this instance. It noted that the policy did provide cover, in certain 
circumstances, when a holiday needed to be curtailed. But it said Mr and Mrs Ls reasons for 
coming home early werent one of those circumstances. It also noted there was a section 
under the policy that provided cover when government restrictions came into place. But, said 
that didnt cover Mr and Mrs L either  as the government restrictions had to be put in place 
within seven days of scheduled travel to a particular area. And, AWP said Mr and Mrs Ls 
travel to a further destination was outside of those seven days.
In addition to this, AWP noted there was a general exclusion within the policy, which noted it 
wouldnt pay any claim arising from, or relating to, any epidemic or pandemic. And, it said 
that because Mr and Mrs L had needed to return home due to a pandemic, the policy didnt 
cover them for the situation.
Mr and Mrs L didnt feel this was fair, and so made a complaint to AWP. AWPs position on 
the matter remained the same. So, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They 
acknowledged the exclusion in relation to epidemics and pandemics. But they said it wasnt 
fair to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim in this instance. 
They said this because they thought the policy was unfair, as it didnt cover Mr and Mrs L if 
they had stayed abroad against FCDO advice, as there was an exclusion within the policy 
around this. And, it also didnt cover them to come home, as the situation Mr and Mrs L 
found themselves in wasnt listed in the policy either. He said this created an imbalance 
between the insurer and policyholder. And noted that the exclusion within the policy around 
FCDO advice hadnt been made clear to Mr and Mrs L in the documents.
AWP disagreed. It said that Mr and Mrs L had enough time to review their policy when they 
took it out. It said whilst the World Health Organisation (WHO) didnt declare coronavirus a 
pandemic until 12 March 2020, it was a widely known issue prior to then, and Mr and Mrs L 
could have read their policy to understand what this meant for them, in terms of their cover. 
As AWP disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. I do understand this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs L. But Ive explained my reasoning below. And, as above 
Ill consider any further submissions provided by both parties, before the date noted at the 
top of this decision.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr and Mrs L feel AWP hasnt acted in line with this. 
So, Ive considered their concerns. And based on what Ive seen I dont think AWP has done 
anything wrong in declining Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Mr and Mrs L have said that when they purchased their insurance policy they asked to be 
provided with the best cover, and theyve expressed that they wanted this to cover all 
eventualities. Its important to note, this complaint is about the insurer and their decision on 
the claim, rather than the party that sold the policy. And so, Ive focused on AWPs actions 
as the insurer. But insurance policies dont cover all eventualities, and will usually have 
terms, conditions and exclusions within them. And, Ive considered the terms, conditions and 
exclusions within Mr and Mrs Ls policy.
From reviewing Mr and Mrs Ls policy Im aware it provides cover for the need to curtail (cut 
short) a holiday. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, the holiday needs 
to be curtailed as a result of one of the reasons detailed within the policy booklet. The list of 
reasons is an exhaustive one. And so, if the trip was cut short, but not due to one of the 
reasons listed, the policy doesnt cover it, and the claim wont be settled. 
The reasons in the policy include issues such as the death or illness of the policyholder, a 
travelling companion, relative or colleague, attendance of jury service and redundancy. None 
of which apply in Mr and Mrs Ls case. And, as above, because the curtailment of Mr and 
Mrs Ls trip wasnt due to one of the listed reasons, the policy doesnt cover it. And so, I dont 
require AWP to act outside of the terms and cover the claim.Its also important to note that there is a general exclusion in the policy which Im satisfied 
means its reasonable for AWP to decline the claim in this instance. The general exclusion is 
as follows;
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy;
We will not cover you for any claim arising from, or relating to, the following:
()
2 Any epidemic or pandemic.
Given the above, Im aware that regardless of the section the claim is being considered 
under  such as under the curtailment or government restriction sections of this policy, if Mr 
and Mrs Ls loss is as a result of a pandemic or epidemic, then the claim isnt covered under 
the policy, and no settlement is due under the policy.
The WHO declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on the 11 March 2020. Mr and Mrs L were 
already on holiday at this point. So, when they returned home early, and suffered a loss, it 
was due to the impact of restrictions in relation to the coronavirus pandemic. As thats 
something excluded by the policy, Im satisfied AWP has acted reasonably in declining to 
settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs L did. They explained they didnt 
feel the outcome is fair. In summary, they explained they couldnt continue on their holiday, 
and go to the destination they had intended to visit before returning home  because there 
were no flights there. And they had purchased their insurance policy in good faith, for a 
service they felt they didnt receive. Mr and Mrs L highlighted how frightening the experience 
of being told to return home, and needing to source a flight home was, with a pandemic 
being something they hadnt heard of before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Including the further comments provided by Mr and Mrs L. Having done so, my decision 
does remain the same as that noted in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
So, Ill not reiterate this again here.
Its important to note though, that I do empathise with Mr and Mrs L, and how frightening and 
stressful their experience must have been. But my role is to consider whether the insurer, in 
this case, AWP, acted fairly and reasonably. And I do think it did.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs L purchased their insurance policy in good faith, and that 
needing to return home because of a pandemic was something Mr and Mrs L hadnt heard of 
previously. But, as explained above, policies dont usually cover every eventuality, but are 
subject to terms, conditions and exclusions. And in this instance, Mr and Mrs Ls policy didnt 
cover them for the reason they needed to return home early  given those terms, and the 
exclusion surrounding pandemics. 
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require AWP Assistance UK Ltd to 
do anything differently in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman