DRN-2887680
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained that Avantia Insurance Limited (Avantia) mis-sold them the 
home emergency element of their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T took out an insurance policy with Avantia online through a price comparison 
website. The Avantia policy included basic home emergency cover for no additional charge 
or a higher level of home emergency cover for an additional premium. Each year, including 
at each renewal, the policy included the higher level of cover.
Mr T and Mrs T complained to Avantia, as they said they werent aware that their home 
emergency cover required an additional premium to be paid. They said they didnt choose 
this option and would have asked for it to be removed from the policy had they known an 
additional fee needed to be paid for it. Avantias response focussed on its policy for charging 
cancellation fees.
Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that he thought, based on the evidence, Mr T and Mrs T would have had to opt for the 
higher level of cover, even if this was by mistake and that the policy documents explained 
they had the add-on home emergency cover.
As Mr T and Mrs T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 May 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
When taking out an insurance policy, customers should be given information thats clear, fair 
and not misleading. Ive considered the information provided to Mr T and Mrs T, including 
when they went through the online process to buy the policy and the policy documents.
When Mr T and Mrs T first took out the policy they started the quote on a price comparison 
website. They were then transferred to Avantias website to complete the process. Avantia 
has provided a screenshot of what people were asked on its website in order to select the 
correct level of cover before taking out the policy. This included a Cover upgrades section. 
This listed home emergency cover and described the basic level of cover and said it was 
included and full cover, for which it listed a price. There was a radio button and one of the 
options had to be selected.
I asked Avantia some further questions about the process to take out a policy. In response, 
Avantia said it didnt opt policyholders into additional cover and that Mr T and Mrs T would 
only have taken out the full cover if they had opted into it themselves. Avantia also later 
explained that Mr T and Mrs T were paid cashback for taking out the home emergency 
element of the policy. I asked Avantia for further details of the cashback. However, it didnt 
reply.
But thinking about when Mr T and Mrs T first took out the policy, I think its more likely than 
not that they did choose the higher level of emergency cover for which an additional 
premium was payable. This was possibly in part due to a cashback incentive but, regardless 
of that, it seems that the only way the higher level of cover could be taken out was for Mr T 
and Mrs T to opt into it themselves. As a result, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Each time a policy renews, this is a new contract of insurance. So, at each renewal the 
information provided to the policyholder needs to be clear, fair and not misleading. So, Ive 
thought about whether that was the case when the policy renewed.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
explains the rules regulating insurers, including for the sale of policies. ICOBS 6.4.7 explains 
what price information an insurer must provide and includes the following:
Price information is likely to include at least the total premium (or the basis for calculating it 
so that the customer can verify it)
The renewal documents Ive seen gave a total price for the policy, plus taxes. However, I 
dont think there was a way for Mr T and Mrs T to understand the basis for calculating the 
premium using the price information provided. 
Ive also looked at a sample of the renewal documents to see what these explained about 
the home emergency cover. The first set of renewal documents sent to Mr T and Mrs T 
included a section that said Basic Home Emergency Cover: No and then under Additional 
Cover Options it said:
Home Emergency Yes refer to policy booklet.
The document explained that this was the Additional Cover policy booklet, so Ive looked at 
what that said. I didnt read anything that said there was a premium payable for the cover. 
The booklet also referred to a policy fees document, which I read. This only referred to fees 
such as for cancelling the policy. 
I read another, more recent, renewal document sent to Mr T and Mrs T. This included similar 
information to the renewal document outlined above. I also note that for both renewal 
documents it directed policyholders to the Additional Cover policy booklet for further 
information on the basic legal expenses cover, which was included as standard as part of 
the policy.
Im aware the renewal documents said Mr T and Mrs T had declined the basic home 
emergency cover. But reading all of the documents, I havent read anything that explained 
this meant the home emergency cover they had therefore required an additional premium to 
be paid. 
In my view, I didnt read anything in the documents that seemed to differentiate between the 
paid for additional cover and the additional cover included as standard. I also think 
Avantia indicating the free basic legal expenses was additional cover potentially added to 
that lack of clarity.
So, thinking about this, I dont think it was clear that the type of home emergency cover Mr T 
and Mrs T had required an additional premium to be paid. I didnt read anything in the policy 
documents that explained this was the case. I dont think relying on an option that seems to 
have been chosen when the policy was first taken out was enough to make it clear that Mr T 
and Mrs T had this cover in place at each renewal.I havent seen any evidence that Mr T and Mrs T made use of the home emergency policy. I 
also havent considered anything around the additional benefits that were available to Mr T 
and Mrs T had they made use of the policy, as I dont think this is relevant in the 
circumstances of this case.
So, on the basis of the above, I currently intend to uphold the part of the complaint about the 
renewals, as I think the home emergency element of the policy was mis-sold to Mr T and 
Mrs T when the policy renewed. I dont think it was clear at each renewal that the home 
emergency cover required Mr T and Mrs T to pay an additional premium. I also dont think 
Mr T and Mrs T were in a position to make an informed decision on whether they wanted an 
additional level of cover for which an additional premium was payable. 
As a result, I currently intend to say that Avantia should refund the premiums paid for the 
upgraded home emergency element at each renewal, but not for the year in which Mr T and 
Mrs T first took out the policy. Avantia should also pay interest on that amount because Mr T 
and Mrs T lost access to that money. This should be calculated from the date at which the 
first payment was taken at each renewal until the date on which Avantia refunds the 
premiums. I also intend to say that Avantia should pay £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr T and Mrs T as, for a number of years, it wasnt made clear 
to them that they were paying an additional amount for their home emergency cover.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 18 June 2021.
Mr T and Mrs T said they still thought the additional cover option was pre-selected.
Avantia enclosed the details of the cashback incentive and said:
ICOBS 6.4.7 was guidance and it had disclosed the total price for the premium each year 
and there wasnt a requirement that a breakdown needed to be provided.
Avantias documentation clearly asked customers to check they have the right level of 
cover. It said my decision felt contradictory if I accepted that the customer knew they 
were paying the higher premium.
It was evident Mr T and Mrs T selected the higher level of cover, as they did so via a 
specific cashback incentive. So, it couldnt see why £100 compensation was warranted. 
The home emergency add-on was included in the schedule in the Additional cover 
option section, so it was clear it was an add-on product. Avantia offered a cooling off 
period if the policy wasnt suitable for the customer.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons previously given.
Ive thought about the comments provided by both parties. I remain of the view that its more 
likely than not that Mr T and Mrs T opted into the higher level of home emergency cover 
when they first took out the policy. This is why I have said Avantia doesnt need to refund the 
premium for that year. 
However, as I previously explained, each time a policy renews this is a new contract of 
insurance and, at each renewal, the information provided to the policyholder needs to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I remain of the view that Mr T and Mrs T werent provided with enough information at each renewal for them to understand they were paying for the level of 
home emergency cover provided as part of their policy. This is because of the combination 
of the premium not being broken down into its elements, it not saying in the documents that 
there was a premium payable for the home emergency cover and the basic legal cover, for 
which there was no additional premium, also being described as additional cover. So, I 
dont think Mr T and Mrs T were in a position to be able to make an informed decision. I also 
dont think Mr T and Mrs T seemingly opting for the higher level of cover in the first year 
meant they were aware they were paying the higher premium when the policy renewed the 
following year and in later years. 
In terms of the £100 compensation, this is for the distress and inconvenience related to the 
renewals, as it wasnt made clear to them that they were paying an additional amount for 
their home emergency cover. I havent awarded any compensation for the year that the 
policy was first taken out, as I havent upheld that part of the complaint.
Putting things right
As a result, Avantia should refund the home emergency premiums only for each year that 
the policy renewed, but not for the year the policy was first taken out, and pay interest on 
each amount. It should also pay £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Avantia Insurance Limited to:
Refund the additional premiums paid for the home emergency cover element only for 
each year in which the policy renewed, but not for the year in which the policy was first 
taken out.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date on which the first payment was 
taken at each renewal until the date on which Avantia Insurance Limited refunds the 
money.
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman