DRN-2752518
The complaint
Mr F has complained about how The Prudential Assurance Company Limited handled the 
switch of the investments in his pension.
What happened
Mr Fs pension was held with Prudential and his money was invested in a fund that was 
categorised as higher risk. In March 2020 he had several telephone conversations with 
Prudentials agents about moving his money to a lower risk fund:
9 March  Mr F said his pension pot had reduced by 10% over the previous eight weeks and 
he felt the market was volatile and it wasnt the time to gamble with his pension; so he asked 
the agent to switch his investment to Prudentials cash fund; the agent confirmed the switch 
would be done effective that day.
10 March  Mr F said hed been keeping an eye on his pension and on 16 January it was 
valued at £76,000 but it had lost £10,000 in eight weeks, he also said it had dropped 
approximately £2,400 since the previous day; Prudentials agent confirmed it would take nine 
working days for the switch to be processed, but it would be backdated to 9 March; Mr F 
thought hed been hasty in asking for the whole of his pension to be switched to cash, so he 
asked if 70% of it could be switched back to the previous fund; the agent said he would need 
to check how that would work and come back to Mr F. No changes were made during the 
call.
11 March (call one)  Mr F said that on 9 March the value of his pension was showing as 
£67,658 and it had dropped £2,500 by 10 March and a further £5,000 since then; the agent 
said the switch from 9 March wasnt showing as it hadnt been processed yet, and she again 
confirmed it would be backdated to 9 March; she also confirmed switches normally took up 
to nine days to process.
11 March (call two)  the agent Mr F spoke to on 10 March called him back but Mr F said 
hed decided to keep all his investment in cash; he again mentioned that his pension had 
dropped £15,000.
16 March  Mr F said he could see that his investment had been switched into the cash 
fund, but the value of his pension had dropped to £59,919 (from the £67,658 that was 
showing on 9 March); he felt this loss was due to the investment remaining in the higher risk 
fund while Prudential was processing the switch; the agent said the switch would have been 
processed with effect from 9 March, so the value of Mr Fs pension on that day must have 
been £59,919; she said shed need to look into it further.
Prudential later told Mr F that any pension value he saw online was calculated using forward 
pricing as it took several days for the actual fund price to be provided by the fund manager. It 
also confirmed the value of Mr Fs pension that was switched to the cash fund was correct. It 
nevertheless accepted that Mr F had received a poor level of service because if it had 
mentioned the forward pricing in any of the phone conversations he would have been aware 
that the pension value he saw on 9 March might not have been the amount that would be 
switched. It therefore apologised and offered Mr F £125 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused (Prudential later offered Mr F a further £100 compensation, but this was because he 
hadnt received its initial response ie it wasnt because of the forward pricing issue).
Mr F complained to us because Prudential never told him about the forward pricing. He said 
if hed known about this he would have contacted Prudential earlier and made different 
decisions that would have avoided a financial loss.
Prudential provided our investigator with further information on what a customer will see 
online about the value of their pension. The upshot of what Prudential said is that the 
information shown online is out of date because it doesnt know the value of a pension on a 
particular date until that date has passed. It gave an example of prices showing on 2 March 
2021 being the prices for 24 February 2021. Prudential also said that when a customer 
looked at the value of their pension online they received a message that the values were 
based on the latest unit prices but werent guaranteed.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He noted the reality was that the 
value of Mr Fs pension on 9 March was £59,925 (rather than Mr Fs understanding that it 
was £67,658). He felt the lag between the actual fund value and what was shown on the 
website ought to have been made clear to Mr F during the calls. Ultimately our investigator 
concluded that Mr F had suffered loss of expectation once the switch was processed. To put 
things right, he felt Prudential should increase its compensation by £225. He didnt think 
there were grounds to compensate Mr F for any financial losses he might have suffered 
because although he might have switched funds earlier it wasnt possible to determine when 
he would have acted had he known about the forward pricing.
Prudential accepted our investigators conclusion but Mr F didnt. He felt the compensation 
wasnt relative to the loss of expectation given the amount he thought would be switched. He 
said Prudential accepted they were at fault and it had opportunities to correct any 
misunderstandings about the pension values hed seen. He said he made decisions based 
on incorrect information that have led to financial losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this type of complaint I firstly look at whether or not the financial business did anything 
wrong or treated the consumer unfairly. If they did, I go on to look at whether the consumer 
was disadvantaged and, therefore, whether anything needs to be done to put matters right. I 
dont have the power to punish or fine businesses just because they get something wrong; 
any monetary award I make is to compensate for any financial losses, distress and/or 
inconvenience the consumer suffered.
Did Prudential do anything wrong/treat Mr F unfairly?
I think this boils down to two issues  the first is whether Prudential switched Mr Fs 
investment with effect from 9 March 2020; the second is whether it gave him sufficiently 
clear information during the telephone conversations.
Mr F told our investigator that he was always led to believe the fund switch would be done 
with effect from 9 March and this didnt happen. Mr F was given a consistent message that 
there would be a delay before the switch was processed, and that when the switch was 
processed it would be backdated to 9 March. So I think the impression Mr F formed as to when the switch would take place was reasonable. However, in my view, switch was done 
with effect from 9 March.
I think the problem here is that the pension valuation figures Mr F was seeing online were 
out of date ie they were the figures from a few days earlier. This is because there is a delay 
in Prudential receiving the figures from the fund manager. Ive already given one example of 
this above, but Prudential has given us another example  in that the values 6 March werent 
available until 12 March. What this effectively means is that on 9 March when Mr F saw a 
value of £67,658 that figure was the value of the pension a few days earlier. And on 10 
March when he saw that the value had dropped £2,500 from the previous da, that drop had 
already happened a few days earlier. A similar thing happened when he saw the further drop 
of £5,000 on 11 March. The drop Mr F saw from 9 to 11 March essentially mirrors the drop 
from £67,658 to £59,925. 
So I dont think Prudential treated Mr F unfairly in respect of the amount it switched to the 
cash fund. I think its most likely that the amount Prudential switched equalled the value of 
Mr Fs pension on 9 March.
In respect of the information given to Mr F during the telephone conversations, Prudential 
has already accepted that it should have told Mr F about the forward pricing. As Ive alluded 
to above, I dont think the forward pricing was necessarily the main issue here  it was the 
difference between the online value of Mr Fs pension and the real value that has caused 
the problem. I accept Prudential didnt know the actual value of Mr Fs pension at the time of 
the various telephone conversations (and it wouldnt have known until a few days later). But, 
it did know there was a difference between the online value and the real value. And I think 
there were opportunities during the phone calls to explain this to Mr F. Had it done so, Mr Fs 
expectations would have been managed and I think some of the confusion would have been 
eliminated.
Was Mr F disadvantaged?
Ive concluded above that I think the amount Prudential switched equalled the value of 
Mr Fs pension on 9 March. So I dont think Mr F suffered a financial loss due to any delay in 
Prudential processing the switch.
There is nevertheless the issue of whether Mr F suffered any loss, distress or inconvenience 
due to not being fully informed about the difference in pension values during the calls. Had 
Prudential given Mr F clearer information there were only three decisions I think he could 
really have made:
1. to switch the investment to cash with effect from 9 March  which is obviously what he 
did do
2. to delay switching the investment to the cash fund  I think this was unlikely given Mr Fs 
view at the time on the volatility of the market and not wanting to gamble with his pension
3. having decided to switch the investment to the cash fund, to switch some or all of it back 
to the original higher risk fund  again I think this was unlikely, for the same reasons as 
point 2.
With that in mind, I think its unlikely that Mr F would have acted differently had Prudential 
explained to him in any of the calls that the values he was seeing online werent the actual 
values of his pension on that day. Accordingly, I conclude that the lack of information given 
by Prudential during the calls didnt lead to Mr F suffering a loss.
There was no opportunity for Prudential to have told Mr F about the difference in fund value 
figures over the phone before the call on 9 March. So I dont think theres a persuasive argument that clearer information from 9 March onwards would have led to Mr F switching 
the investment to the cash fund earlier than 9 March.
However, I think its clear that Mr F has suffered some distress and inconvenience  not 
least because his expectations in respect of the amount transferred werent managed. 
However, following our investigators assessment of the complaint Prudential has offered to 
pay Mr F a total of £450 compensation. I think thats fair and in line with what I would have 
awarded had nothing already been offered. So there are no grounds in my opinion for me to 
ask Prudential to pay any more.
Summary
For the reasons outlined above, I conclude that:
Prudential did what it said it would do in that it switched Mr Fs investment to the cash 
fund with effect from 9 March 2020
Prudential treated Mr F unfairly as it didnt explain in any of the phone calls that the value 
of his pension hed seen online didnt accurately reflect the value of his pension
Mr F didnt suffer any financial loss due to a delay in Prudential processing the switch or 
due to Prudential not explaining the difference in pension values during the phone calls
£450 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr F suffered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay Mr F 
£450 compensation (less anything it has already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman