DRN-3091684
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund him for 
disputed transactions carried out on his account.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Barclays.
Mr C explains that transactions were carried out in Zambia which he didnt authorise in 2019.
Barclays advise they looked into the disputed transactions however didnt refund Mr C. They 
explained theyd asked Mr C to complete a fraud declaration form to specify which 
transactions he hadnt carried out but Mr C didnt respond. And they needed this to 
investigate the disputed transactions.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint, but didnt think the disputed 
transactions should be refunded. In summary they said Mr C needed to be clearer to 
Barclays about which transactions he was disputing  and allow them to complete a full 
investigation. Mr C didnt accept our investigators conclusion  so the case has been
passed to me for a decision.
On picking up Mr Cs case I asked both parties for more information regarding the disputed 
transactions. Mr C explained that because of a medical condition he has problems with 
anxiety and short term memory loss. And due to the length of time since the disputed 
transactions occurred hes unable to recall exactly which ones he didnt consent to 
however, he is confident he didnt carry out any transactions in his most recent visit to 
Zambia, in 2019, using his credit card.
Barclays maintain theyve not been able to successfully investigate the disputed transactions 
because Mr C hasnt returned the form. The bank has also been unable to provide a copy of 
the authorisation documentation for the disputed transactions  however theyve advised
our service the transactions were carried out using Chip and PIN.
I reached a similar conclusion to our investigator but I expanded on the reasoning. I issued 
my Provisional Decision on the 22 September 2021 and asked both parties to respond with 
any further comments. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision without further comments. 
Mr C didnt accept my conclusion  he explained that at the time of the disputed transactions 
he was unwell and staying in a clinic in Zambia. He didnt attend any restaurants in Zambia 
and if his card hadnt been returned he would have noticed so this wasnt unusual.  
As Mr C didnt accept my provisional decision Ive reviewed my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 say that Barclays need to provide evidence that Mr 
Cs genuine security details were used to authenticate the disputed transactions. However 
Barclays advise due to the length of time since the disputed transactions theyve been 
unable to provide authorisation evidence. Barclays have however explained that the 
disputed transactions were authorised by chip and PIN. And although Barclays havent been 
able to provide authorisation documents on balance I think its likely the transactions were 
authenticated via Chip and PIN as Barclays advise.
However, this isnt enough for Barclays to hold Mr C liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr C consented to the 
transactions being made. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to 
conclude that Mr C authorised the transactions. This is because:
Its likely to carry out the disputed transactions a fraudster would have needed 
access to Mr Cs credit card and PIN  Mr Cs provided a plausible explanation for 
how his credit card could have been taken. However, hes advised he hasnt shared 
his PIN with anybody, and he didnt carry out genuine transactions in Zambia 
immediately prior to the disputed transactions. Therefore it wasnt possible for Mr Cs 
PIN to be compromised via shoulder surfing.
I understand that Mr C had his credit card in his possession on
returning to the UK. I cant see the benefit to a fraudster in returning Mr Cs credit 
card after completing the disputed transactions.
The disputed transactions were all carried out in Zambia between
26 August 2019 and 6 September 2019. If a fraudster did obtain
Mr Cs card and PIN without his knowledge Id expect them to spend funds more 
quickly than was the case.
The disputed transactions were carried out in a variety of
restaurants and hotels. This isnt the type of activity Id expect a fraudster to carry 
out.
Looking at the statements provided by Barclays I can see that Mr C previously visited 
Zambia on at least two occasions prior to the disputed transactions. A large number 
of the disputed transactions were carried out at hospitality venues Mr C previously 
carried out genuine transactions. It seems surprising that a fraudster would carry out 
transactions at locations Mr C has previously carried out genuine transactions.
I understand that this will be disappointing to Mr C  however for the reasons Ive outlined 
above I think its likely on balance Mr C carried out the disputed transactions but doesnt 
remember making them. And therefore Im not currently thinking of asking Barclays to do 
anything further.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision by disagreeing with a number of points. He firstly explained that it would have been possible for anyone in the clinic to gain access to his 
credit card whilst he was in Zambia. I dont disagree with Mr Cs argument however it still 
remains that a fraudster would likely have needed access to his PIN  and theres no 
plausible explanation for this. 
Mr C also argued that hes never visited any restaurants in Zambia. However, if this was the 
case Id have expected Mr C to dispute transactions carried in Zambia on previous 
occasions. But to date he hasnt questioned previous spending in Zambia. 
Lastly Mr C argued that it wouldnt be unusual for a fraudster to return a credit card to the 
owner after theyd carried out disputed transactions because hed have identified it as lost 
sooner. I understand Mr Cs point here, however I think on balance this is an unnecessary 
risk for a fraudster to take in returning to Mr Cs belongings to replace the card.
For the reasons Ive outlined above on balance Im satisfied Mr C authorised the disputed 
transactions. And it follows Barclays dont need to do anything further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman