DRN-3609163
The complaint
A company which Ill call R complains that Bank of Scotland (BOS) treated them unfairly 
when it wouldnt allow them to refinance their debt elsewhere. They also complain that BOS 
appointed LPA receivers who also treated them unfairly.
What happened
R had an existing loan facility with BOS. There was a specific clause in the loan facility 
agreement relating to a historic interest rate swap between R and BOS. The clause said that 
if R met its obligations under the loan agreement, the breakage costs from the swap of 
around £596,000 (the costs) would be written off by the bank. If not, the costs would need 
to be repaid by R.
R told us:
They had tried to refinance their loan to another bank, but BOS had stopped them 
doing so. They believed this was so BOS could charge them the breakage costs as a 
penalty.
The bank had appointed LPA receivers who sold their investment properties without 
needing to. 
Their investment properties had been sold at less than the market value and in 
alphabetical order, rather than value. 
BOS told us:
It couldnt comment about the LPA receivers actions and R would have to take this 
up with them directly. It also didnt think the LPA receivers actions could be 
considered by this service. 
The breakage costs were not charged as a penalty but were part of the facility 
agreement terms and payable if R breached these terms  which R had done by not 
making its loan repayments on time. 
It was happy to allow R to refinance. However, it wasnt prepared to release the 
assets held as security proposed by R to allow it to do so, as this would have left it 
without sufficient security for the remaining facility that R held with BOS.
Our investigator said:
 
We couldnt consider the actions of the LPA receivers (including the properties they 
sold) 
The LPA receivers had been correctly instructed by the bank in line with the relevant 
law. 
The £569,000 breakage costs werent applied as a penalty but were payable under 
the terms of Rs settlement agreement with the bank if they didnt meet the agreed 
repayments. So, she thought it was reasonable for BOS to require R to pay these 
costs.
She wasnt persuaded that BOS had prevented R from refinancing with another 
lender. 
She thought that it was reasonable for BOS not to release the security held by the 
bank if it wasnt satisfied with Rs finance proposal.
It was BOSs decision on whether it held sufficient security based on its risk appetite.
R didnt agree. They believed BOS had breached the FCA principles because the bank had 
blocked their request to refinance. R said their properties had been sold under value and 
theyd made the bank aware they were happy to sell their development site rather than the 
investment properties. R also said the income from their investment properties would have 
covered the loan repayments so the LPA receivers should have used this to cover the 
repayments rather than sell the properties.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have arrived at the same conclusion as our investigator that I cant 
consider part of Rs complaint, and that I dont uphold the part I can consider.
The actions of the LPA Receiver
There isnt much more that I can add in addition to what our investigator has already said. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to consider every complaint that's brought to 
us. We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out 
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate  I have to strictly apply the rules about 
what we can and cant consider - I dont have discretion when it comes to our jurisdiction.
R says that its investment properties didnt need to be sold by the LPA receiver, and that 
when they were sold, it was at a much lower value than they were worth. However LPA 
receivers dont fall within the jurisdiction of this service. Although the LPA receiver was 
appointed by BOS, they didnt act on the banks behalf but as an agent for R to clear the 
outstanding balance owed to BOS.
 
I havent seen any evidence that the LPA receiver took direction from BOS in how it should 
proceed with settling the outstanding balance owed by R. So I cant consider the part of the 
complaint about the actions of the LPA Receiver. 
I can consider whether it was reasonable for BOS to appoint LPA receivers and based on 
what Ive seen I think it was. Im also satisfied that BOS followed the required guidance in 
making the LPA receiver appointment.
 
The actions of BOS
R says that BOS prevented them from refinancing to another lender so that the bank could 
apply a cost penalty. Firstly, I dont agree that the costs applied to R here were a penalty 
Ive looked at the settlement agreement which says: 
The Bank would terminate the 10-year interest rate swap (referred, to as the Live 
Swap in the Settlement Agreement),'and the sum of the cost of breaking the Live 
Swap would be crystallised into a new loan and debited to a hew loan account with interest accruing at 2.00% per annum over base rate (the Break Costs), the amount 
was in the region of £569,381 51 at the date of the settlement. In the event that R 
complied with the settlement agreement, the Break Costs would be written off by the 
Bank. However in the event [..] R breached the Settlement Agreement (i.e. failing to 
pay the Sum by the Payment Date), the Break Costs would become immediately due 
and payable. 
The payment date in this case was nine calendar months from the date the agreement was 
signed on 9 July 2015. So I think it was reasonable for BOS to request payment of these 
costs as R didnt meet the payment date and Ive seen evidence which shows R was fully 
aware these costs would be payable if it didnt meet the terms of the agreement.
I recognise R said that BOS prevented them refinancing to another lender. But from what 
Ive seen, BOS didnt prevent the refinancing, it just wouldnt agree to release a charge over 
Rs investment properties. The settlement agreement says that the banks security would 
remain in place until R had repaid all their outstanding borrowing with BOS.  This was a 
commercial decision the bank was allowed to make - as it wasnt satisfied that Rs proposal 
to release certain investment properties would leave it with sufficient security for the 
remaining debt that R would hold with the bank. Ive seen the banks explanation for this, 
and I think it was reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint R but based on the evidence available I dont think BOS treated them 
unfairly. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My decision
My decision is that I cant review the part of Rs complaint about the actions of the LPA 
Receiver. And I dont uphold the part of Rs complaint about BOSs actions which could be 
considered by this service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman