DRN-2905199
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr P made to re-mortgage his home onto a 
consumer buy-to-let (CBTL) basis. The transaction was arranged by a broker representing 
Mortgage Intelligence Limited (MIL) and was intended to provide funds to go towards the 
purchase of a new family home. Unfortunately, it came to light after Mr P was committed 
to the purchase that there wasnt enough money to complete the transaction. Mr P 
managed to borrow the difference elsewhere privately, but is seeking compensation for 
the extra costs incurred, and for the stress events placed on him and his family.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision earlier this month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that 
provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr P 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words (and rounding the figures) 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr P was looking to relocate his family from an urban location to a rural one; initially he 
intended selling the urban property (which was the subject of a residential mortgage with a 
lender Ill call N) to fund the purchase but that didnt progress in a timely fashion so Mr P 
considered renting it out instead. At the suggestion of his selling agent, Mr P approached 
MIL to arrange a CBTL mortgage on the urban property, with a lender Ill call B. 
This would release equity to put towards the purchase of the rural property; meanwhile, Mr P 
approached N to arrange a residential mortgage on the rural property, at the same time 
porting the terms of his exiting mortgage over to the new mortgage. The purchase price of 
the rural property was just over £1m, the CBTL mortgage arranged with B by MIL was 
around £850,000, and the existing mortgage with N was in the region of £360,000. 
Porting of the mortgage with N involved the existing mortgage being repaid, and a new one 
taken out on the same terms, but secured on the new property. What hadnt been taken into 
account was that unless the new mortgage was for a larger amount than the one it replaced, 
there wouldnt be enough money to complete the purchase. It seems that the new mortgage 
with N wasnt for a larger amount than the one it replaced, and this came to light after 
exchange of contracts, exposing Mr P to possible sanctions if he didnt complete. 
MIL spoke to B about a possible further advance on the CBTL; B was agreeable but it seems 
it would have taken too long. Instead, Mr P took out a private loan of £200,000 from a friend, 
secured by a second charge over the urban property, allowing him to complete the purchase 
of the rural property on time. Shortly after that, he was able to sell the urban property after 
all; he repaid the private loan and the CBTL mortgage with B; in the latter case this meant he 
incurred an early repayment charge (ERC). 
Our investigator concluded that MIL had miscalculated how much Mr P would need to 
borrow on the CBTL, and recommended it pay him £250 compensation for his time, trouble 
and upset. He didnt consider NIL should reimburse Mr P any out of pocket expenses for 
arranging the private loan, reasoning that if the CBTL mortgage had been for a larger 
amount, Mr P would have paid more interest on it during the period it was in force.
Both parties have asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman; Mr P because he 
considers more redress is due, and MIL because it doesnt believe it was the party that 
made the mistake, hence it shouldnt have to pay Mr P anything.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point here is normally the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly. But unless theres a compelling reason not to, well generally 
rely on it as being an accurate record of what was discussed at the time.
Having looked at everything that both parties have said and provided, Ive come to a 
different conclusion from the investigator; I set out my provisional findings below so that both 
parties can comment before I finalise my decision.
The testimony in this case is contradictory; in simple terms, MIL says it wasnt involved in the 
residential mortgage port, so had no way of knowing there would be a shortfall. In contrast, 
Mr P says it was MIL that calculated how much hed need to borrow on the CBTL, the inference being MIL must have known the figures involved in the porting transaction to have 
done that. That being so, it becomes one partys word against another, and the point of sale 
documentation is of limited help to me in deciding whose testimony I should attach greater 
weight to. Theres certainly no mention of the purchase price of the rural property or the 
amount being raised in the new mortgage on it with N in the fact-find for the CBTL.
Ultimately when considering any complaint like this, as Mr P is the one bringing the 
complaint against MIL, for me to uphold the complaint requires Mr Ps version of events to 
be more likely than MILs, not just as likely. Having considered everything before me 
presently, neither version of events strikes me as being any more plausible than the other. 
To put it another way, I cant say Mr Ps case is anything more than, at best, just as likely as 
MILs, which isnt enough.
But theres more to consider than just that. I dont know, for example, what advice Mr P 
sought, and received, in respect of the new mortgage with N. I certainly cant rule out the 
possibility that a mis-calculation took place when it was being decided how much Mr P would 
borrow on that mortgage; and MIL played no part in that decision. 
In any event, whatever I might conclude regarding what MIL knew about the porting 
transaction, I still have to consider what Mr P knew. MIL has commented that Mr P holds 
positions of employment that infer a degree of financial sophistication. Mr P says that should 
be disregarded, and he is right. Ive paid no regard to what Mr P does for a living; it is 
entirely irrelevant. 
However, I cant disregard the fact that Mr P was the one party who I can say with some 
certainty was definitely aware of all of the figures in both sides of the transaction. Mr P knew 
how much he was paying for the rural property, how much he was borrowing on the CBTL 
mortgage with B, and how much he was borrowing on the ported mortgage with N. 
Mr P says MIL was the expert whose advice he sought, and again hes right. But even as a 
lay person without any specialised knowledge, it seems to me Mr P could reasonably have 
understood that unless the ported mortgage with N was for significantly more than the 
amount of the mortgage he already had, then no new money would be available to go 
towards the purchase. The only new money being introduced into the transaction was the 
CBTL, and £850,000 was never going to be enough to find a £1m purchase. 
So, even if I were persuaded on the balance of probabilities that MIL was the party that got 
things wrong (and Ive explained earlier why Im not) theres still the issue of mitigation. The 
point about mitigation is that it requires a claimant to take steps to minimise their loss and to 
avoid taking unreasonable steps that increase that loss. In my view, Mr P was in a position 
to mitigate the potential impact of any mistake on MILs part, had I found there to have been 
one. 
Ill make one further point, largely for completeness. Even after contracts have been 
exchanged, a person isnt legally obliged to complete on a purchase; they can still abort (or 
delay) the purchase, albeit with a financial penalty. Once the shortfall became apparent, 
Mr P was faced with two unwelcome alternatives, each of which came with financial 
implications. I fully understand why hed want to complete the purchase, not least in the 
interests of his family. That was Mr Ps right, but it was also his choice, and he must accept 
the consequences that flow from that.
In summary, Im not currently persuaded on the balance of probabilities that MIL was at fault. 
Not only does that meant Im not minded to hold it liable for any extra financial outlay on 
Mr Ps part, it follows that I dont consider it should pay him compensation for his time, 
trouble and upset.I gave the parties until 25 June 2021 to respond to my provisional decision; weve heard 
from both. MIL confirmed it had nothing further to add; Mr P made a number of points, which 
I summarise below:
MIL was aware of the figures involved in the purchase of the rural property; his selling 
agent was in regular contact with MIL and Mr P himself emailed MIL with a copy of the 
porting offer from N on 22 November 2019.
Mr P reiterated that his employment experience wasnt relevant. It was MILs advisor 
who put all the sums together and he questions whether it was up to him to challenge the 
expert. It wasnt an error of arithmetic, but a failure to factor in the requirement to redeem 
the existing mortgage on the urban property.
He accepts he could have aborted the purchase but that would not have mitigated his 
losses. It would have added further stress to his family and the other parties in the 
transaction chain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill explain 
why.
First of all, Id already made it clear in the provisional decision that Id paid no regard to 
Mr Ps employment experience; my assessment of what he might reasonably have known or 
realised were entirely in the context of a lay person who has experience of buying and 
selling properties funded by mortgages. On that note, to use Mr Ps phrase, it was (at least 
to some degree) a failure of arithmetic. I dont consider specialist knowledge was needed to 
understand that a mortgage debt cant be in two places at the same time.
Im satisfied, from the further information Mr P has provided, that MIL knew how much he 
was borrowing from N in the porting mortgage on 22 November 2019, because thats the 
date on the email by which he sent it a copy of the mortgage offer. But it doesnt get me any 
nearer to assessing what MIL knew about the porting mortgage on 22 October 2019, the 
date on which MIL made its recommendation for the CBTL mortgage. 
I also note that Mr P talks of MIL having advised him to pursue the porting mortgage with 
N. But MIL gave Mr P no advice or recommendation in respect of the porting mortgage. The 
scope and purpose of the advice from MIL was limited to raising a CBTL mortgage on the 
urban property for the purpose of letting it out to tenants. The reasons why letter of 
22 October 2019 made this very clear on the first page. 
As it stands, with the information I have at my disposal, it remains unclear whether Mr P took 
the porting mortgage on the advice of a different intermediary or arranged it himself directly 
with N. If the former applied, then the intermediary in question should have advised Mr P on 
how much hed need to borrow from N to ensure he had enough money to buy the rural 
property. If no intermediary was involved, then that responsibility lay either with N (if it 
provided the porting mortgage on an advised basis) or Mr P himself if the porting mortgage 
was non-advised. 
What the porting offer does include however, is the following narrative:You should not enter into any legally binding contracts until you are advised to do so by the 
Conveyancer.
Mr P did enter into a legally binding contract when he exchanged contracts on the purchase 
of the rural property. It seems reasonable to infer that he did so only after having been 
advised to do so by his conveyancing solicitor. Its also reasonable to infer that the solicitor 
would have been in possession of copies of both mortgage offers, and therefore knew how 
much money was available.
All of the above goes to highlight why I cannot fairly attribute the shortfall of funds solely to 
any act or omission on MILs part; and to be clear, I have to if Im to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
MIL was only one of several parties involved in this transaction. I can only assess the impact 
of MILs actions on events, but I cant do so in isolation. At the same time I have no remit to 
assess the actions of the other parties. 
Overall, Im not persuaded MIL caused the shortfall. The most damning conclusion I could 
reach is that MIL might have realised, on 22 November 2019, that there might be a shortfall, 
unless Mr P had access to other funds such as savings. But it was only one amongst several 
parties who were just as well- (or arguably better-) placed to realise the problem, and 
possibly sooner than MIL. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman