DRN-3621705
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the interest rate charged to their mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. They say the terms of their mortgage say that Halifaxs 
standard variable rate (SVR) should be no more than 2% above the Bank of England base 
rate  but in fact theyve been charged much more than that. They want a refund of the 
interest they believe theyve been overcharged over the years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2006. They borrowed 
£250,000 over a term of 14 years.
For the first two years, Mr and Mrs C were on a fixed rate of 4.45%. In 2009, their mortgage 
reverted to Halifaxs SVR, and they have been on the SVR ever since.
Their mortgage offer says, among other things:
We have set a limit on the Halifax Standard Variable Rate so that it will not be more 
than 2% above Bank of England base rate. We can change the 2% limit but, before 
we do, we will give 30 days notice to customers who pay interest at Halifax Standard 
Variable Rate, a discounted rate or an added rate and are subject to an early 
repayment charge. Those customers will then have three months to repay their 
mortgage if they want to, without having to pay the early repayment charge. This 
does not apply to customers who pay interest at a fixed, capped, special or tracker 
rate.
Mr and Mrs C say that Halifax has never given them notice that it has changed the cap, and 
therefore it should only have charged them 2% or less above base rate throughout their 
mortgage  whereas in fact it has charged them more than that. The SVR has been more 
than 2% above base rate throughout the time theyve been subject to it. They therefore say 
theyve been overcharged since 2009.
Halifax says that the terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed it to increase the cap. It 
increased the cap to 3% in 2008  on those mortgages subject to the cap (which, it says, 
does not include Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage).
It says that in any case Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was never subject to the cap. It says the 
cap only applied where a customers mortgage was wholly or partly on SVR (or linked to 
SVR) and they were also subject to an early repayment charge (ERC). This might apply in 
various scenarios  for example when the mortgage was on a discount rate linked to SVR, or 
when part of the mortgage was on SVR and part on a preferential rate.
This was never Mr and Mrs Cs situation  while they were subject to an ERC, the whole of 
their mortgage was on a fixed rate with no link to the SVR, and then when they were on SVR 
they were not subject to an ERC  and so the cap never applied to them. 
In other words, Halifax says it was never under an obligation to charge them no more than 
2% (or as the case may be 3%) above base rate. And so it has not treated them unfairly or 
overcharged them interest. 
However, there were wider concerns about Halifax mortgages which included this wording. 
And so in 2011, Halifax agreed a scheme with the then regulator, the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA).
The effect of the scheme was that the wording of the mortgages like this could be confusing 
 in particular, that it could lead customers to be confused about whether the cap applied to 
them or not. That included customers in Mr and Mrs Cs situation  who were on SVR but 
not subject to an ERC. Those customers were not covered by the cap, but the inclusion of 
the wording Ive quoted above (or similar) in their mortgage offers could have led them to 
believe they were. And other customers who were subject to the cap could have been 
confused about when the cap would stop applying to them.
The FSA therefore required Halifax to write to affected customers explaining the position 
clearly. And certain customers  including Mr and Mrs C  would be entitled to a refund of 
any interest charged above the 2% cap between 1 January 2009 and the implementation of 
the scheme in 2011. 
This was because customers like Mr and Mrs C might have been confused about whether 
the cap applied, or expected that it would apply when it didnt. But because Halifax didnt 
think the cap applied to them, it had never charged them in line with the cap, and hadnt 
written to them when it changed the cap. Customers in this situation were to be given a 
refund of interest as if the cap had applied to them at 2% until 2011 - so the compensation 
for being led to believe that the cap might apply when in fact it didnt was to re-work the 
mortgage as if the cap had applied, and also to explain that in reality the cap had never 
applied and from now on the SVR would not be linked to or capped at an amount over base 
rate.
The interest refund was to be used to reduce the mortgage balance unless the customer
asked for it to be paid in a different way.
The redress was set at 2% above the cap even though Halifax had varied the cap to 3% -
because Halifax didnt think the cap applied to them, it had never told them the cap had 
increased to 3%.
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs C, as it was required to by the terms of the scheme, and paid
just over £5,000 to their mortgage to reduce their balance. This represented the difference 
between the interest they had actually paid between 2009 and 2011, and the amount they 
would have paid had their interest rate been capped at 2% over base rate. Halifax also told 
them that their mortgage was not subject to the cap and the SVR they would pay from 2011 
onwards was not linked to base rate (and would be higher than if the cap had applied).
Mr and Mrs C replied and asked for the money to be paid direct to them instead, so Halifax 
took it back off their mortgage balance and sent them a cheque in September 2011.
In the years after 2011, Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage remained on the SVR and there was little 
or no contact between them and Halifax apart from things like annual statements and other 
letters Halifax was required to send from time to time. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs C reached the end of their interest only term. This led them to 
look closely at their mortgage  including checking the terms of their mortgage offer. They 
say that at this point they realised that the SVR Halifax was charging them was more than 2% above Bank of England base rate  and they said that their mortgage offer said that 
wouldnt be the case.
There followed extensive correspondence. Halifax said Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the 
interest rate was out of time because the events of 2008  2011 were more than six years 
ago, and Mr and Mrs C would have known about them at the time. It said it had paid them a 
goodwill gesture in 2011 and wouldnt re-open that matter. But it offered them £200 
compensation for delays in dealing with their complaint.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with that and brought their complaint to us, where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators.
He said that he couldnt consider anything about the interest rate, because that part of the 
complaint was out of time. He said Halifax should increase its offer of compensation for the 
handling of their complaint from £200 to £300. Halifax accepted that, but Mr and Mrs C 
didnt.
My provisional decision
I took a different view of things to the investigator  I thought that we could consider at least 
part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I set out the applicable rules, which are that a complaint must be made within six years of 
the date of the event complained of, or  if this gives more time  within three years of when 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of cause for complaint.
My conclusions on our jurisdiction were that:
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is not about the redress they were paid in 2011, and its 
not about whether or not Halifax ought to have varied their SVR at that time (which, 
in fact, it didnt);
Their complaint is 
otheir mortgage offer says that while they are on the SVR, the SVR will always 
be capped at 2% over base rate;
oIn fact, this has not happened;
oAs a result, throughout the time theyve been on the SVR, theyve been 
overcharged interest;
In other words, the complaint is that each month Halifax charged them interest, it did 
not do so in line with what the offer actually said about how the interest rate would be 
set  and therefore overcharged interest each time;
That means that in this complaint we are looking at the decision Halifax made each 
month to charge the interest rate it did  and whether it did so fairly, lawfully, and in 
line with what the mortgage documents said;
We can therefore, as a minimum, consider the fairness of interest charged in the six 
years before Mr and Mrs C complained  that is, since March 2014;
However, we cant go back further than that under the three year part of the rule, 
because:
oI was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were told in 2011 that Halifax did not think 
their mortgage was subject to the cap, and that they would not be charged 
interest in line with the cap from then on;
oMr and Mrs C received annual statements and other letters setting out their 
interest rate and the amount they were charged in the years from 2011  
again telling them that they were not in fact being charged interest in line with 
the cap;oTherefore, this was enough to tell them that they were not being charged 
interest in line with what they thought their mortgage offer said  and was 
enough to reasonably make them aware they had cause for complaint;
As there were no exceptional circumstances, I would only be considering the fairness 
of interest charged from March 2014 onwards.
In respect of the merits of that part of the complaint, my conclusions were:
I took into account the redress scheme that was agreed between the regulator and 
Halifax in 2011;
I noted that, in certain circumstances, that scheme was binding on the Financial 
Ombudsman Service;
But in any event, whether or not its binding on me in this case, its a relevant matter 
for me to take into account;
While what happened prior to and in 2011 is out of time and I cannot consider a 
complaint about it, it is relevant context for deciding whether Mr and Mrs C were 
charged interest fairly from March 2014 onwards;
Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs C in 2011 explaining that their mortgage had never been 
subject to the cap and would not be subject to it going forwards;
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was not in fact subject to the cap on the SVR  
notwithstanding the wording included in their mortgage offer  because of further 
wording in the mortgage terms and conditions. This had been explained to them in 
2011, and in the period I could consider (from 2014 onwards) it was not unfair that 
the interest rate they were charged was not subject to the cap;
In any case, Mr and Mrs C had not been tied in or subject to an early repayment 
charge (ERC) since 2009, so if they were unhappy with their interest rate at any time 
there was nothing to stop them taking out a new fixed rate, either with Halifax or with 
another lender. But there was no evidence theyd ever tried to do that;
While Halifax could have handled their complaint better in 2020, a large part of 
Mr and Mrs Cs frustration stemmed from disagreement with the outcome. I was 
satisfied that the offer of £300 compensation was fair in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C acknowledged my provisional decision but made no further substantive 
arguments.
Halifax said it didnt agree that any of this complaint was in jurisdiction, since  it said  the 
event Mr and Mrs C were complaining about was the point at which their SVR went more 
than 2% above base rate, which is more than six years ago. It didnt agree that this was a 
complaint about the ongoing fairness of the interest they were charged each month. It also 
said that while it agreed with the outcome I had reached on the merits of the complaint, it 
considered that the Financial Ombudsman Service was bound by the terms of the scheme 
agreed with the regulator in 2011.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what I said in my provisional decision again, but I havent changed my mind. 
Im satisfied that this complaint falls within my jurisdiction, since Im satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that Halifax has overcharged them interest each month because 
it has charged more than  they believe  their mortgage offer said it would. While we cannot consider the fairness of those charges more than six years before the complaint was made, 
the charges within the last six years are in time. Im satisfied this is consistent with the 
approach taken in the other cases Halifax has referred to.
Under the terms of the scheme agreed with the regulator in 2011, the scheme is binding on 
the Financial Ombudsman Service  but only if certain conditions are met. However, I dont 
need to make a formal finding as to whether I consider I am bound by the scheme or not in 
this case, since in any event Im not reaching a different outcome to what the scheme said. 
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, summarised above, Im satisfied that it 
was explained to Mr and Mrs C in 2011 that  notwithstanding the wording in their mortgage 
offer  the 2% cap never applied to their mortgage. They were paid redress at that time for 
any confusion the offer may have created. And it follows that the interest charged from 
March 2014 onwards was not unfair even though it was more than 2% above base rate.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Halifaxs offer of £300 compensation for delays and frustration in 
responding to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is fair, and I dont require it to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman