DRN-4146654
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed him after he fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Background
In August 2021, Mr D was contacted on a social media platform by someone who purported 
to be a representative of a property investment company. He was invited to participate in a 
rent-to-rent investment scheme. Under this arrangement, the managers of the scheme 
would take on rental properties from landlords and then rent them out at a higher rate. The 
difference between the two rates would be the profit for the investors.
Mr D spoke with a sales manager who appeared professional. Mr D asked the scammers 
several questions regarding how the investment operated, the structure of the deal and what 
would happen if the investment didnt perform as well as promised. He was told that if he 
invested £3,000 then he could expect a monthly return of £1,000. I understand he visited a 
property with a representative of the company, and this persuaded him to invest. 
Unfortunately, the people who had contacted Mr D were not the legitimate representatives of 
an investment company. The investment was a scam. 
He made a transfer from his account with Lloyds. However, he was told that the property he 
had invested in had fallen through. However, other opportunities to invest were available but 
he would need to pay more. Mr D recognised at this point that the arrangement couldnt 
have been legitimate. He contacted Lloyds and told it hed fallen victim to a scam. Lloyds 
looked into things but didnt agree to reimburse him. Mr D was unhappy with that and so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator considered the 
complaint under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code. He didnt think that Mr D had a reasonable basis for believing that this 
investment opportunity was a legitimate one. Primarily, the return hed been promised was 
too good to be true. But the Investigator also noted that Mr D didnt carry out any checks on 
the company nor did he receive any paperwork or formal written contract before agreeing to 
transfer his money.
The Investigator also considered whether Mr D could be considered vulnerable under the 
terms of the code. He wasnt persuaded that the evidence suggested he could. Mr D 
disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint was passed to me to consider 
and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr D is presumed liable for any transaction on his account 
that he authorises. He did authorise the payment that is the subject of this complaint, even 
though he did so under false pretences and as a result of a scam. However, thats not the 
end of the story. Lloyds is signed up to the CRM Code and so ought to refund victims of 
authorised push payment (APP) scams.
The circumstances where Lloyds may choose not to reimburse a customer under the code 
are limited. However, Lloyds has said that one or more of the exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in Mr Ds case. After careful consideration, I agree with that conclusion, which is why 
Im not telling the bank to reimburse him. 
The relevant exceptions to reimbursement in this case are, broadly:
where it can be demonstrated that a customer ignored an effective warning given by 
the bank 
where the customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for belief 
they were for legitimate goods and services.
I agree with the Investigators conclusion that Mr D made this payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing the investment to be legitimate. The return hed been promised was 
exceptionally generous  in exchange for an upfront payment of £3,000 he was told he could 
earn a return of £1,000 per month  an annual return of 400%. Im afraid such a promise 
was unrealistic and Mr D ought to have treated it with greater scepticism.
I cant see that Lloyds provided a warning when Mr D was making the payment. The Code 
says that firms should display effective warnings where a fraud risk is identified. Im satisfied 
that Lloyds wouldnt have had any clear basis for treating this payment in such a way. There 
were several other payments in the months preceding the scam that were around the same 
value and so I dont think Lloyds couldve been expected to treat this particular payment as 
unusual or out of character to the extent that it was required to display a warning.
I also considered whether Mr D should be considered vulnerable under the terms of the 
code. If he were, the exceptions to reimbursement would no longer apply here. His 
representatives have provided us with evidence showing that he suffers with several 
significant health problems. However, the code says that a Customer is vulnerable to APP 
scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that Customer to have protected themselves, 
at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the 
extent of the impact they suffered.
Im afraid Im not persuaded that Mr D met this definition at the time he fell victim to the 
scam. Ive looked at the evidence of the communications between him and the scammer and 
I can see that he posed several thoughtful questions about the operation of the investment. 
The messages give the impression of an individual who knew what they are doing and was 
able to weigh up the merits of the investment opportunity that had been presented to him.
I dont say any of this to diminish or downplay the fact that Mr D fell victim to a cynical and 
manipulative scam. Im genuinely sympathetic in respect of what hes been through. But Im 
limited to considering the liability of the bank here and, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded its required to reimburse him.
I also considered whether Lloyds did everything it shouldve done once it was notified that Mr 
D had fallen victim to a scam. The investigator contacted the receiving bank  i.e. the bank 
that operated the account used by the fraudster  which confirmed that all of Mr Ds funds 
had been removed from the account before Lloyds was notified of the scam. Unfortunately, 
that meant it wasnt possible for it to recover any of Mr Ds losses that way.Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman