DRN-4266307
The complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax allowed a second payment to be 
taken from his credit card for a holiday.
What happened
On 12 January 2023 Mr C booked a holiday with a company Ill refer to as T. The payment 
for this was £4,163.36, and Mr C authorised this by inputting a security code he was sent by 
Halifax. Shortly afterwards, Mr C received notification he was close to his credit limit  and 
when calling Halifax, said he found out its because T had taken a second payment for 
£4,136.36. Mr C questioned Halifax on this and was told to talk to T as it was nothing to do 
with them. Halifax thought T had taken two payments, but when Mr C spoke to T they said 
theyd only taken one.
Mr C says it became clear he was on his own as Halifax werent interested in helping him get 
back the second payment. He said ultimately the second payment was never actually taken 
from his credit card, but questions whether things would have been the same had he not 
followed this issue up.
Halifax said theyre sorry he was unhappy T attempted to take a second payment. Halifax 
explained they follow the card providers rules, and these say theyre only able to dispute a 
payment if its actually taken from the account. Halifax said they have no control over a 
company attempting to take a payment twice. They added when they approve a transaction 
this is added to Mr Cs account as a pending authorisation to make sure hes got enough 
funds available for the transaction. And the pending authorisation will remain on the account 
until the company, takes it, or make them aware the transaction wont complete. Halifax said 
they wouldnt know if the transaction is going to be taken by the company or not, but the 
second attempted payment had dropped off and was never taken.
Unhappy with this Mr C asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
overall didnt think Halifax had made any errors.
Mr C didnt accept this. In summary he felt Halifax were responsible and said he was 
disgusted at the way he was treated. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain up front our role is to look into a complaint, assess what 
financial loss if any has occurred, and award compensation where appropriate. I cant 
generally require financial businesses like Halifax to fundamentally change their processes 
for processing payments nor do I have the power to review their systems. Im required to 
base my outcome on the evidence provided by both parties and reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Mr Cs complaint is that a second payment was seemingly authorised on his account without 
his permission and he thinks there is a security flaw in Halifaxs systems.
Having considered Mr Cs complaint I wont be upholding it which I know will be a 
disappointment to him. Ill explain why.
I do understand Mr C believes there is a security flaw in Halifaxs systems, but Im not 
satisfied thats a fair explanation for what actually happened. Its common practice for 
payments to show up as pending authorisation for the reasons Halifax have said  to make 
sure someone has enough funds to make the payment. In Mr Cs circumstances, two 
transactions for the same amount from the same merchant were due to debit his credit card 
account. One of these ultimately did, and one didnt. This second payment was pending 
authorisation. Generally, when a payment is marked as pending authorisation like Halifax 
have said, its because the merchant has applied for the payment but not yet taken the 
actual funds.
In Mr Cs circumstances, I cant reasonably say Halifax have done anything wrong, as Im 
not satisfied an error has occurred by Halifax which has led to this situation. Without a 
detailed and in-depth analysis of Halifaxs systems, which is beyond my remit as I cant 
interrogate any financial businesses systems, Im left to decide on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened. Here, it seems to me its more likely than not Halifax had no 
input in to the second transaction being attempted to be made. I do understand Mr C spoke 
to T, who said they didnt try and take a second payment, but Im only able to assess this 
complaint against Halifax.
In respect of raising a dispute what Halifax have explained to Mr C about their ability to so is 
correct. A transaction cant be disputed until its actually been taken from the account. I 
realise this left Mr C in a difficult position, as he didnt know if this second payment would be 
taken, but I cant say Halifax did anything wrong in not disputing the payment on the basis 
itd not been taken from Mr Cs account when he was in contact with them.
Its clear Mr C feels quite strongly that had he not pursued this matter then the second 
transaction would have debited his account. I cant categorically say thats incorrect, but I 
think based on all the information Ive got the second transaction would likely have dropped 
off anyway. So, overall, I cant uphold Mr Cs complaint as I cant find Halifax have made an 
error.
Finally, Ive noted Mr C said Halifax offered him compensation when he was speaking to 
them on the phone. But, they didnt do so in their final response letter, so if Mr C now wished 
to accept any compensation payment Halifax have offered he may wish to contact them 
directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman