DRN-3719388
The complaint
Ms G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money she lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In summary:
Ms G started to communicate with someone on a dating application in July 2020. 
Unbeknown to Ms G at the time she was in fact communicating with a scammer. The 
scammer told Ms G they lived abroad. After speaking daily with each other over 
messages, Ms G was tricked into believing she was investing in cryptocurrency by 
someone she thought shed become romantically involved with and who she says 
had gained her trust and she believed to be genuine. Ms G told us theyd also 
spoken about meeting up in person once the pandemic was over. 
Ms G explained the scammer guided her through everything  opening accounts with 
two cryptocurrency platforms  Ill refer to these as H and C. Ms G says she had 
control over these accounts and didnt share the details with the scammer. 
People (sellers) advertised cryptocurrency for sale across one of these platforms and 
Ms G sent the payments to these sellers. The cryptocurrency was then paid into 
Ms Gs account/wallet, and from there she then sent the cryptocurrency onto the 
scammer(s). 
Ms G made the following payments in relation to the scam from her Monzo account: 
Date Time Payee Amount
31 August 2020 08:43 Payee 1 £971.21
31 August 2020 08:52 Payee 2 £1,028.79
31 August 2020 11:20 Payee 3 £700.00
14 September 2020 14:21 Payee 4 £6,230.00
Total loss: £8,930.00
I understand, based on what Ive seen and been told, that Ms G made other 
payments from an account she held with a different bank. This complaint is not with 
our service. This decision solely focuses on the payments Ms G made from her 
Monzo account. 
When Ms G attempted to make a withdrawal from the investment, she was told she 
would need to make a further payment in relation to tax first. Ms G proceeded to 
make this payment on 14 September 2020. After this, she was told shed need to 
make a further payment and if she didnt the account would be frozen, which would 
then require an additional payment to unfreeze it. It was at this point Ms G says she 
became suspicious she might have fallen victim to a scam. 
Ms G reported the matter to Monzo on 3 March 2021, via its in-app chat function. 
Monzo contacted the receiving banks on 7 March 2021 (the banks to whom the 
money was sent), but no funds remained. Having looked into things, Monzo said it 
wouldnt remburse the money Ms G had lost as the payments had been made to 
another account in her own name. It added the payments made werent covered by 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), the provisions of which it 
has agreed to follow. 
Our Investigator considered Ms Gs complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. Our Investigator concluded the payments Ms G made werent covered by the 
CRM Code as the payments she made purchased cryptocurrency which she then 
sent onto the scammer. She added that in this case, Ms G had received the goods 
shed paid for. 
Our Investigator didnt think the three payments made on 31 August 2020, were 
suspicious in appearance compared to the normal account activity and so she didnt 
think Monzo ought to have been concerned. She did think the payment on 
14 September 2020, should have been identified and that Monzo ought to have 
contacted Ms G before processing the payment. But she didnt think this would have 
made a difference. Had Monzo got in touch with Ms G and asked questions about the 
payment, she didnt think what Ms G wouldve likely shared wouldve caused Monzo 
concern. This was because, Ms G told her that the scammer had gained her trust 
and she was convinced he was genuine. She also referred to a credit of 
cryptocurrency that she says the scammer placed into her account as a gift, which 
further persuaded Ms G that all was legitimate. 
Further, when taking into account the scammer(s) had coached her and told her not 
to tell her bank the payments were to invest in cryptocurrency, our Investigator wasnt 
persuaded Ms G wouldve told the bank the reason for the payment. This said, even 
if Ms G had told the bank the payment was for cryptocurrency, our Investigator 
thought it likely Ms G wouldve shared that for the payments made on 
31 August 2020, shed received the cryptocurrency following these payments. So she 
didnt think Monzo needed to refund the money Ms G had lost to the scam. 
Ms G disagreed. In brief, she said that, had Monzo questioned her about the 
payment on 14 September 2020 and alerted her to the potential of a scam, she 
wouldve questioned this. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G doesnt dispute that she made all of the payments from her Monzo account. This 
means they were authorised by her. So the starting point under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Ms G is responsible for the 
payments as well as any resulting losses.But the matter doesnt end there. Monzo should also be on the look-out for, and help to 
prevent, payments that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. It has also committed 
to reimbursing customers under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
Based on what Ms G has told us, I understand she was instructed to purchase 
cryptocurrency from third parties on a cryptocurrency exchange. This involved sending faster 
payments to the third parties in exchange for cryptocurrency. When the cryptocurrency was 
credited to her account, Ms G then sent this onto the scammer. This technique is a 
deliberate one that scammers employ to help evade banks fraud detection and prevention 
systems. Thats what happened latterly in Ms Gs case and it means the CRM Code doesnt 
apply to any of the transactions that were used to buy cryptocurrency.
Id firstly like to recognise that Ms G has lost £8,930 which is a significant amount of money 
for her to lose to what is a cruel scam. I can also understand why she wants to do all that 
she can to try to recover this money. 
A balance must be struck between identifying payments that may indicate a customer is 
potentially at risk of financial harm  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  
and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. With this in mind, I agree with our 
Investigator that the initial three payments Ms G made on 31 August 2020 in favour of the 
scammer werent so unusual or out of character as to warrant intervention from Monzo. 
When thinking about the initial three payment Ms G made, these in my judgment, werent so 
remarkable or suspicious when compared to Ms Gs previous account activity, that I think 
they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that she might have been at 
risk of falling victim to a scam.
Im mindful that the initial three payments were made on the same day and to three new 
payees. Ive thought carefully about this point, but in this particular case, I dont think this 
ought to have put Monzo on notice that she might be at risk of financial harm from fraud, 
particularly given the value of the payments.
But, when Ms G made a payment of £6,230 on 14 September 2020 to a new payee, I think 
Monzo ought to have done more to check she wasnt falling victim to a scam. Had Monzo 
intervened, as I think it should have, I need to consider whether I think this wouldve made a 
difference in this particular case. 
I dont know for certain what Ms G would have said had Monzo got in touch and asked 
questions about the payment of £6,230. In these circumstances, where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about everything Ms G has told us, but even if more questions had 
been asked and a clear fraud and scams warning was provided, Im not persuaded this 
would have prevented the scam. I say this because, this wasnt a typical investment scam 
where a customer is contacted by a scam investment company and given investment advice. 
Such scenarios allow a bank to ask questions about the investment company or conduct its 
own research into that company on the FCA database. Unfortunately, here there was a 
romance scam element. 
Ms G says she was told by the scammer(s) not to tell her bank that she was making 
payments to invest in cryptocurrency. Ms G in her communication with Monzo said the 
scammer was helping her unconditionally and that she trusted this person. She told us the scammer transferred an amount of their own cryptocurrency into her account as a gift. Which 
Ms G says further convinced her that all was legitimate. Given the trust Ms G says she had 
in the scammer, I cant safely say Im persuaded Ms G wouldve told the bank the real 
purpose for the payment of £6,230. 
But in any event, even if I consider that Ms G wouldve responded to more probing 
questions, and shed told Monzo she was investing in cryptocurrency, given the specific 
circumstances of this case and the relationship Ms G believed shed developed with the 
scammer, I think its more likely than not that she wouldve shared shed been told to invest 
in the cryptocurrency by someone she trusted and that shed made previous payments on 
31 August 2020 and shed receive the cryptocurrency following these payments.  
With this in mind, Im not satisfied probing questions and a clear scam warning wouldve 
made Monzo suspicious nor, on balance, do I think what Ms G likely wouldve shared with 
the bank wouldve caused it concern that she might be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Im also not persuaded, given the relationship Ms G believed shed developed with the 
scammer that intervention by the bank likely wouldve broken the spell, as Ms G by her own 
testimony said she trusted they were helping her unconditionally. 
Monzos recovery attempts 
Where money has been lost to a scam such as in this case, I would usually expect Monzo to 
make reasonable attempts to recover the money after being notified about the scam. 
Ms G reported the scam to Monzo on 3 March 2021 via its in-app chat function. It then 
contacted the receiving banks on 7 March 2021 but received responses to say no funds 
remained. While I think Monzo could have acted more quickly in seeking to recover Ms Gs 
money, I dont think any possible delay has made a difference in this case. 
I say this as Im mindful that in this particular case, the payments Ms G made were used to 
buy cryptocurrency. So, in effect, Ms G got what she paid for but then sent this onto the 
scammer. In that situation I dont think its likely Monzo wouldve been able to recover any of 
her money.
I do recognise Ms G has lost a significant amount of money and has been the victim of a 
cruel scam and I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to her. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded Monzo can fairly or reasonably be held liable for 
her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman