DRN-3944112
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (who Ill call MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr D, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Ill explain why.
Mr D acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr D responsible for keeping the van in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the van wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The process
MBFS arent members of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA), the 
organisation that provide the industry guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear 
when a vehicle is returned at the end of a lease. But I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS 
to be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the vehicle, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection.
The BVRLA explains that where the leasing company decides for commercial reasons not to 
carry out the repairs it identifies, a charge can still be made to compensate it for the loss of 
value in the asset. If Mr D wanted to avoid the charges he could have arranged his own 
inspection and commissioned his own repairs but that would need to have been done before 
the car was handed back.
The BVRLA guidance recommends that drivers (or nominated representatives) are present 
when vehicles are collected. It says that all readily apparent damage and wear will be 
documented when the vehicle is collected, and the driver will be given an opportunity to 
agree with the condition report.
I am not persuaded its likely given the relatively short delay in completing the second 
inspection, that the extensive damage listed (or indeed any damage) was likely to have 
taken place in the period between the first and second inspection and Im not persuaded 
Mr D was therefore disadvantaged by not being present at that subsequent inspection.
The damage charges 
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS), but the industry guidelines are 
provided by the BVRLA. I think its only fair to consider that standard (for light commercial 
vehicles such as Mr Ds) in tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the 
inspection reports can fairly be considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and 
chargeable.
Dents
The inspection report provided photographs of dents to the front bumper, fuel flap, nearside 
quarter panel, and offside front door
The BVRLA and the VRS both say that: dents of 15mm or less are acceptable provided the 
base metal is not exposed or rusted 
I think in all four cases the damage identified in the inspectors photographs show it to be 
outside of the acceptable standard and therefore chargeable.
Scratches
The inspection report provided photographs of scratches to the Offside/Front/Door 
Interior/Sill/ Step Painted and the Offside/Rear/Door Interior/Sill/Step Painted. There was 
also evidence of scratches to the Offside/Rear/Quarter Panel.
The BVRLA and the VRS agree that: Scratches that are 50mm or less are acceptable 
providing that the base metal is not exposed or rusted. 
I think the evidence shows the scratches to the Offside/Rear/Door Interior/Sill/Step Painted 
and Offside/Rear/Quarter Panel to be beyond 50mm and the Offside/Front/Door Interior/Sill/ 
Step Painted has damage that has exposed the bare metal. The damage is therefore outside 
of the acceptable standard and is chargeable.
Chips
The inspection report provided photographs of chips to Nearside/Rear Door and 
Offside/Rear/Door. 
The BVRLA say that: chips of 8mm and less in diameter are acceptable provided the base 
metal or material is not exposed or rusted.
The VRS says that: Paint chips that are 8mm or less in diameter are acceptable providing 
that there is a maximum of 4 per panel, 6 per door edge and 8 on any forward facing panel.
Both doors have chips that expose the base metal and whilst the offside door chips are 
potentially less than 8mm I think the fact they are on the swage line and are outside of what 
the BVRLA would consider acceptable, persuades me a charge has been fairly made.
Damaged and missing itemsThere are charges for two damaged sensors, a missing chip decal, and a missing door seal. 
The BVRLA says that fittings should be free from damage and the returned vehicle should 
be legally compliant and roadworthy. I think the van couldnt reasonably be considered to 
have been roadworthy and/or legally compliant with the broken sensors and I think the decal 
could fairly be considered a fitting. Im therefore persuaded those charges have been fairly 
made.
Odour
The inspector found it necessary to use an odour bomb to remove the smell of smoke in the 
cabin. I dont think that £14.70 charge was therefore unreasonable.
MOT
The MOT ran out on 27 June 2022 and the inspection was completed on 7 July 2022. 
The VRS explains: The vehicle must be capable of passing a MOT and have a valid test
certificate, which has at least 6 months unexpired cover. 
The BVRLA doesnt stipulate a period of validity but says that may be stipulated in the lease 
agreement. 
So, Im persuaded the van didnt have the requisite amount of MOT cover and a charge was 
therefore reasonable.
Offside/Front/Interior/Carpet/E/Front/Interior/Step
The carpet is loose, and the bare metal is exposed beneath it. 
The VRS, in relation to the interior, states: Normal levels of wear and tear is allowed. 
The BVRLA says: Floor coverings and surrounding trims should not be torn or split. Carpets 
should not have holes. Foot wells should not have holes that penetrate the base metal or 
material, such as rubber flooring.
Theres no specific mention of loose carpets but I dont think it would be fair to suggest that 
was an acceptable return condition and in those circumstances I think MBFS were fair when 
making a charge.
Rear/Boot/Boot Floor - Damaged 
The photographs show the boot is significantly misaligned. 
The BVRLA and the VRS agree that: There must be no distortion to any panel or 
deformation to the original shape of the component.
So I think a charge is reasonable here
Rear tailgate poor repair (£209.54) and damaged strap (£89.25)
The photographs dont evidence any damage and the charges should therefore be removed.Putting things right
MBFS should remove the charge for the Rear/Tailgate - Previous Repair, and 
Rear/Tailgate/Check Strap.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to remove the charges they have sought to make to refurbish 
the Rear/Tailgate - Previous Repair, and Rear/Tailgate/Check Strap.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman