DRN-3435956
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible in
increasing the credit limit on his account.
What happened
Mr M has a credit card account with Barclaycard. In June 2018, Barclaycard increased the
credit limit on the account from £6,000 to £9,000. Mr M says he was already struggling to
make the minimum payments and had missed some payments. He says that the increased
credit limit wasnt affordable.
In May 2020, Mr M applied for a payment holiday which was approved. In August 2020, after
the payment holiday, he completed an income and expenditure form. This showed that he
had no disposable income. Barclaycard suspended interest and charges on his account from
that point onwards. It also put his account under the control of its specialist support team.
In early 2021, Mr M complained to Barclaycard about the increase to his credit limit. It sent
its Final Response Letter to the wrong address, so Mr M says he was waiting for a reply for
around a month. Barclaycard apologised for this and paid Mr M compensation of £100.
In relation to the credit limit, Barclaycard said that Mr M had the opportunity to opt out of the
increase but didnt do so. It said it hadnt lent irresponsibly and that there was nothing to
suggest that Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty at the time. But it refunded interest of
£250 to his account.
Mr M wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and asked this service to look at the
complaint. I issued a provisional decision on 16 March 2022 and both parties accepted my 
findings. Im now issuing a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
There are industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases for
credit cards. In line with these, Id expect a business to assess a customers creditworthiness
and consider how their financial situation may be adversely affected before significantly
increasing their credit limit.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclaycard carried out some assessments
before increasing Mr Ms credit limit. But I need to decide whether it did enough to assess
whether Mr M could manage the higher level of borrowing and whether its decision to
increase the limit was reasonable, based on the information it gathered.
Barclaycard says that Mr M had an exemplary payment history in the 12 months before the
credit limit increase. But Mr M says he was already struggling to make the minimum
payments and had missed some payments. Ive seen his statements and I cant see any
evidence of missed payments before the credit limit was increased. Im satisfied that Mr M
was maintaining payments to the account at that time. But he was only making the minimum
payment each month and this had been the case for more than a year.
Making the minimum payment each month isnt necessarily a sign that a customer is in
financial difficulty. But, without more information, I dont think it indicates that further
borrowing will be affordable. After all, a higher credit limit can lead to higher minimum
payments.
Barclaycard says that, before increasing the credit limit, it assessed the likelihood of Mr Ms
account defaulting. It says that his score on this assessment was within its threshold for
further lending. It says it also used Credit Reference Agency data to assess Mr Ms financial
position. It didnt ascertain or verify Mr Ms income as part of this assessment. But it says
that the Credit Reference Agency score indicated a level of confidence in Mr Ms income
which it found acceptable. Barclaycard says that Mr M also passed the affordability
assessment on the Credit Reference Agency data.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard obtained the information outlined above. But I dont think it was
enough to show that a higher level of borrowing was going to be manageable for Mr M. Im
not satisfied that the information about Mr Ms income was enough for Barclaycard to know
that he would be able to meet higher monthly repayments in addition to his existing
outgoings, particularly as the Credit Reference Agency data also showed that he had
outstanding loans and credit card balances with other lenders at the time.
The credit limit increase was significant here. In the circumstances, I think Barclaycard
should have done more to consider how Mr M might be adversely affected by the increase,
before implementing it. I think that, if Barclaycard had sought more information, its likely it
would have concluded that further borrowing wasnt affordable for Mr M and so it would
probably have reached a different lending decision.
Im satisfied that Barclaycard gave Mr M notice of the credit limit increase and that he had
the chance to opt out of it. But, if a customer is financially stretched, I dont think its
necessarily reasonable to expect them to turn down an unsolicited increase in credit.
To put things right, I think Barclaycard should rework Mr Ms account to remove all interest
and charges on any balance over £6,000 from 12 June 2018 (being the date the credit limit
was increased to £9,000). Where any such interest and charges have been paid by Mr M,
they should be refunded to him with interest.
Mr M says the increase greatly affected his finances, which soon spiralled out of control. I
note that Barclaycard wrote to him in February 2020 and told him his account had been in
persistent debt for at least 36 months. It said he didnt need to do anything but that he should 
continue to pay at least the minimum payment each month or get in touch if he had concerns 
about his financial situation. In May 2020, Mr M requested a payment holiday and
Barclaycard agreed to this. The payment holiday was in place until August 2020. From what
Ive seen, I dont think Barclaycard knew of Mr Ms difficulties until he contacted it at the end
of the payment holiday and explained his situation.
At that point, Barclaycard suspended interest and charges on Mr Ms account. I think that
was fair. I also think the refund of £250 which Barclaycard made in January 2021 was fair.
So I dont think Barclaycard needs to do any more in relation to Mr Ms financial difficulties.I also think that £100 was fair compensation for Barclaycards mistake in sending the Final
Response Letter to the wrong address. So Im not going to ask it to do any more about that.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should:
rework Mr Ms account to remove all interest and charges on any balance over
£6,000 from 12 June 2018; and
where any such interest and charges have been paid by Mr M, refund those to him
together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date of payment until the date of
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman