The complaint
Mr N has complained that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy which he took out alongside his credit card. 
What happened
Mr N took out his credit card and the PPI policy in March 2003. Mr N has now complained 
that the PPI was mis-sold, but NewDay hasnt upheld his complaint. NewDay is the business 
that has accepted responsibility for the sale of the PPI.
Mr N wasnt happy with NewDays response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
is represented by a third party.
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Mr Ns 
complaint should be upheld.
NewDay didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mr N took out his credit card and the PPI In March 2003. Mr N hasnt been able to provide 
any documents from the time, just his recollections. NewDay also has very limited 
information and has been only able to provide sample documents, not the original 
application documents Mr N completed.
It has been indicated that the application was made over the telephone. But NewDay says 
this type of credit card account and PPI were not sold over the telephone and an application 
form would have been completed by Mr N and returned.
It is quite possible Mr N did speak to NewDay on the telephone and it sent out an application 
form for him to complete. NewDay has provided a sample copy of the application form that 
Mr N would have completed and returned. This was a form jointly for the credit card account 
and the PPI.
DRN-1913910On the application form there is a section headed Cardholder Repayment Protection which 
includes boxes for yes and no to choose to take out the policy. This would indicate that Mr N 
should have been aware he had a choice to take out the PPI as it seems he ticked the yes 
box.
However other than this section for PPI and the yes and no boxes, which each have some 
limited information against them, there is no other reference to PPI on the application form. 
The form commences with a section highlighting the terms and conditions of the credit 
account, but I can see nothing related to the PPI.
The section for the PPI against the yes box merely states the consumer wants the account 
covered against unemployment, accident and sickness and death. In brackets it also states 
the basic eligibility criteria - that the consumer is aged between 18  64, is in regular 
employment and is unaware of any pending unemployment. There is nothing else at all.
This information says nothing about the cost of the policy and that the premiums would be 
added to the account every month. And there is nothing to indicate there are terms and 
conditions that need to be read which would highlight any restrictions on the cover. This 
doesnt in any way suggest that at this point, when Mr N was applying for the PPI, that 
information about the policy was provided so he could make an informed choice about 
whether it would be useful to him.
A copy of a Policy Document, sent after the PPI was taken out, has also been provided by 
NewDay. But this was not sent until after the policy was in place.
I have looked at the cost for the policy which was £0.85p for every £100.00 of balance on the 
account and charged monthly by adding the premium to the account. The benefit for 
accident, sickness and unemployment would pay 3% of the outstanding balance at the start 
of the claim for up to 12 months, or the balance would have been cleared on death. The 
monthly cost here was higher than many other PPI policies at the time and the monthly 
benefit is substantially lower.
Mr N has told us he was employed full time and  he had good sick pay benefits from his 
employer. He also had savings of around £5,000.
 Looking at the cost and benefits of the PPI and taking account of Mr Ns circumstances, I 
am not satisfied if he had been made aware of the cost Mr N would have thought this policy 
was of good value and benefit to him at the time.
 I think if full information about the costs and benefits had been made clear at the time Mr N 
applied for the credit card and PPI, he wouldnt have taken out the policy. Therefore, I think 
the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So 
NewDay needs to put Mr N as far as possible in the position he would be in if he had not 
been sold any PPI.
So NewDay should work out what Mr N actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including any 
interest or charges caused by the premiums and it must pay back to Mr N everything he paid 
for the PPI policy. 
NewDay must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Mr N didnt have use 
of the money that was paid for the PPI. This should be worked out based on any times the credit card account would have been in credit if the PPI is removed from the balance. When 
the card account was in credit Mr N would have been out of pocket for the PPI costs. And 
this should be calculated to the date he gets the costs paid back. The rate of interest is 8% a 
year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and NewDay must give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for 
one.
NewDay has already paid an element of the compensation due to Mr N, as it has paid the 
excess commission and profit share that formed part of the premiums that were charged. 
This compensation also included the account interest caused by those premiums and also 
come compensatory interest for times Mr N was out of pocket. So the compensation already 
paid can be taken off the additional compensation now due for the refund of the full PPI 
costs and the compensatory interest due on those full amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Mr N by NewDay Ltd. Compensation should be calculated and paid to Mr N as I have 
indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman