DRN-3947842
The complaint
Mr M complains that Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd (AFS) gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his three existing Personal Pension Plans (PPPs) to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) and invest using a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
Mr M is represented in his complaint by his solicitor. But Ill only refer to him in my decision.
What happened
In 2016, Mr M asked AFS to provide him with financial advice on his existing pension 
provision. Mr M met with a pensions adviser from AFS on 9 March 2016. AFS completed a 
fact find which noted: 
- Mr M was aged 60. He was married and in good health, and had no financial 
dependants.  
- He was self-employed with a gross monthly income of around £1,300
- He and his wife had a joint monthly surplus income of around £300
- Mr M and his wife jointly owned a property worth £200,000. They had an outstanding 
mortgage with four years remaining.
- Mr M had savings of £12,000 in cash. His wife had around £7,000 saved in cash.
- Mr M had had three PPPs with two pension providers worth around £55,000. His wife 
had no private pension provision recorded. Mr M didnt expect to have any other 
source of income in retirement other than this and the state pension.
Mr Ms objectives were recorded as:
- wanting flexible access to his pension from age 65
- building up funds as effectively as possible
- he may need a Tax-Free Cash (TFC) lump sum in one or two years time to use 
towards a deposit on an investment property for development with his brother
It was also noted that he wasnt in a position to make additional contributions. 
AFS also completed an Attitude To Risk (ATR) questionnaire with Mr M. This recorded that 
Mr M had a growth objective, and was prepared to take a moderate level of risk. His attitude 
to risk was later recorded in the suitability report as Balanced/Moderately Adventurous. The 
ATR questionnaire also recorded that Mr M wasnt an experienced investor. 
AFS produced a suitability report for Mr M dated 28 September 2016. It recorded that Mr Ms 
primary objective was to create a pension fund which could be used to provide him and his 
dependants with an income in retirement. The report stated that Mr M had been unable to 
specify the level of income he required at age 65, but that he was aware that he had a 
shortfall. It also said that he would like access to alternative investments that would give him 
a fixed rate of return, as hed been disappointed with the performance of his existing 
pensions. The report said that Mr M wanted to use: a flexible, low charging, tax efficient 
savings vehicle. 
AFS recommended that Mr M transfer his three existing PPPs into a SIPP with a new 
provider. It said it was making this recommendation, having considered alternatives which 
might have lower charges, as it was more suitable for Mr M due to the investment choice it 
offered. And because it could be managed by a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). AFS 
provided no advice on fund selection as it said that Mr M was going to use a DFM. 
The suitability report also explained that AFS would charge Mr M 3.5% of the transferred 
amount for its initial advice. And that there would be an Annual Fund charge of 1.0% and an 
Annual Platform Charge of 0.2%, as well as administrative costs for the SIPP.
Mr M completed and signed a SIPP application on the same date the suitability report was 
produced. His three PPPs were then transferred to the SIPP in October 2016. After the initial 
advice fee had been deducted, the remaining funds (£53,197.82) were invested through a 
DFM. 
In late November 2018, Mr M took a TFC lump sum of £11,800.
In May 2022, Mr M complained to AFS, through his solicitor, about the suitability of the 
advice hed been given in 2016. The following complaint points were made:
- If Mr Ms needs had been properly considered, the transfer to the SIPP for the 
purposes of investing wouldnt have been recommended. 
- AFS didnt fully explain to Mr M what his SIPP would be invested in. And it didnt 
explain to him that his fund would only grow if an underlying investment within the 
SIPP was successful.
- AFS didnt give Mr M any kind of performance comparison between his existing 
pensions and the recommended SIPP investments.
- Mr M had limited understanding of the risks involved in moving his pension funds into 
a SIPP. The SIPP wasnt appropriate for him as he wasnt high net worth, a 
sophisticated investor or a high-risk investor.
- AFS mustve known that Mr M would depend on his pension funds in retirement. 
- As Mr Ms pension fund was relatively small, it would be particularly vulnerable to 
adverse investment performance and the impact of policy charges from the SIPP.
- AFS had received commission payments without Mr Ms informed consent. 
- AFS had breached its duty to Mr M under the FSAs Higher Principles of Business 
and the Conduct of Business Rules. 
Mr M asked AFS to reimburse him for the financial losses he felt hed suffered because of 
the advice. He also claimed interest at 8% each year on that loss. And asked AFS to cover 
his legal costs in bringing his claim. 
AFS issued its final response to the complaint on 28 June 2022. It didnt uphold the complaint. It covered the following complaint points:
- It didnt fully consider Mr Ms needs fully when transferring his PPPs to the SIPP
- Mr Ms investment was exposed to significant risk as a result of the advice
- Mr M wasnt a sophisticated or high net worth client and shouldnt have been 
exposed to the impact of policy charges from the SIPP
- It wasnt entitled to receive commission in relation to the investment.
AFS said it had conducted a full fact find and ATR questionnaire and made a 
recommendation after that. It said that Mr M had needed Flexi-Access Drawdown (FAD) as 
he wanted to withdraw some TFC for a business venture with his brother. It said that the fact 
find had established that Mr M didnt need any income from the pension at that time. And 
that hed confirmed that he was unhappy with the performance of his existing pensions, 
which it said were invested in traditional funds. AFS said Mr M was looking to access 
alternative investments.
AFS said the adviser had explained the concept of a DFM to Mr M and that it had appealed 
to him. And that although the adviser had also discussed other SIPPs with lower fees, Mr M 
had agreed with the recommendation as he wanted his funds to be managed on a more 
active basis to attain better returns. 
AFS felt the appointed DFM was responsible for the fund selection and had control of 
investment matters. It said the DFM wouldve clarified the risk rating of the investments to Mr 
M.
AFS said Mr M had been placed into a low charge environment in his SIPP. And that the 
charges had been fully disclosed to Mr M in the suitability report. AFS also said that it hadnt 
received any commission payments in relation to the investment. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the advice was 
unsuitable. And that AFS hadnt presented Mr M with the full facts, so he hadnt been able to 
make an informed decision. He felt that it was highly unlikely that the recommendation could 
be considered value for money, given the size of Mr Ms investment. He also questioned the 
level of risk AFS recommended for future investments. 
Our investigator also said there was no evidence that AFS had considered Mr Ms options if 
he remained with his existing providers. He also felt that the recommendation of a DFM was 
questionable given the sums involved. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr M be put back, as close as possible, to the position 
he would probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. He felt he wouldve 
remained with his previous providers. He also felt that AFS should pay Mr M £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him. 
AFS didnt agree with our investigator. It said that the only investment used within the SIPP 
was through a regulated entity  the DFM. It also said that FAD wasnt available within Mr 
Ms existing schemes.
Mr Ms solicitor told this service that it would contact his previous pension providers to obtain 
the information it needed so that it could comment on AFS's point about FAD. 
AFS made a settlement offer to Mr M through this service on 11 April 2023, although it maintained that the advice had been suitable. The offer was made without prejudice and 
without admission of liability. AFS said that the offer was formed: on the basis that the 
advice to transfer was suitable to fulfil Mr Ms goals, but thereafter, he could have been 
placed in a more cautious fund, based on an attitude to risk of cautious. As such, AFS used 
a specified named fund from a provider it would usually use for a fund of that type as the 
basis for its loss assessment. 
AFSs loss assessment calculated a total redress of £15,659,82 (after adjustment for the fact 
that Mr M had already taken his TFC).
This service shared AFSs settlement offer with Mr M, through his solicitor, for his 
consideration. The solicitor said that it couldnt advise Mr M on whether to accept the offer or 
not as it needed further information, which it was in the process of getting, from Mr M's 
previous pension providers. 
Mr Ms solicitor continued to chase for the information it needed so it could assess the 
settlement offer throughout May 2023. It asked the previous providers whether a FAD had 
been available. And also asked for the current notional transfer value of Mr Ms former plans.
At the end of May 2023, AFS confirmed to this service that its settlement offer remained 
available. Mr Ms solicitor confirmed that it had received the requested information from his 
previous providers. But then told this service on 1 June 2023 that it was still waiting for one 
further notional value. It was also confirmed that FAD was available from both of Mr Ms 
previous pension providers. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When we look at a complaint about the suitability of advice we consider if the recommended 
actions were suitable for the consumer at the time of the advice, in light of the information we 
know about the consumer and the product. AFS say that its advice was suitable. But it has 
made a settlement offer without admission of responsibility.
AFSs offer assumes that it was reasonable for Mr M to have transferred to the SIPP, but 
that he shouldve been advised to invest in a more cautious fund after the transfer, in line 
with a cautious ATR. 
Mr M doesnt think that the advice was suitable. He wants to be put back into the position he 
wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice.
We dont only need to consider whether the recommended actions were suitable for the 
consumer's circumstances at the time. We also need to ensure that businesses act in the 
best interests of the consumer.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that AFS did take reasonable steps to establish 
Mr Ms financial situation and investment objectives. But Im not persuaded that it then used 
this information to recommend the most suitable course of action for Mr M to meet his 
objectives. This is because Im not persuaded that the advice AFS gave Mr M considered if 
he could meet his objectives within his existing arrangements. Nor am I persuaded that AFS has evidenced that it carried out any sort of assessment on the likely outcome of its 
recommendations compared with Mr M staying in his existing arrangements. I also dont 
consider the recommendation was cost effective compared with other options that mightve 
been available to Mr M. So I dont believe the advice was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Mr M appears to have been invested in a large number of individual stocks and shares in the 
SIPP he transferred to. And I understand he was previously invested in managed funds with 
his previous pension providers. Ive seen no evidence that the SIPP investments wouldve 
been more likely to meet his objectives of accessing: alternative investments that would 
give him a fixed rate of return than his investments with his previous pension providers, or 
other funds those providers had available, given Mr M had been disappointed with the 
performance of his existing pensions. So Ive no evidence that Mr M needed, or benefited 
from, the wide range of investments available under the recommended SIPP through a DFM. 
In any event, AFS didnt provide Mr M with any investment advice. Nor did it recommend a 
particular DFM. So it wouldve been impossible for AFS to have assessed whether Mr M was 
more likely than not to be better off by following its recommendation, or by staying in his 
existing arrangements. 
The suitability report said that Mr M wanted to use: a flexible, low charging, tax efficient 
savings vehicle. Im not persuaded that the recommended SIPP, plus the use of a DFM, 
wouldve been well-suited to meet this objective. 
I say this because its not clear whether the transfer to the SIPP led to higher costs than the 
previous pension arrangements. This is because it appears that AFS didnt carry out a 
cost comparison. And if it did, it didnt provide this to Mr M. But I consider it likely that the 
SIPP plus the DFM cost more than the existing arrangements, due to the annual costs of the 
new SIPP/DFM of at least 1.2% a year, plus the costs of individual trades and administrative 
charges. 
Although the 1.2% charge was explained to Mr M in the suitability report, Im not persuaded 
that all of the charges were explained to him before he made the decision to transfer to the 
SIPP. And I agree with our investigator that it was unlikely that the recommendation would 
provide Mr M with value for money. I say this because Mr Ms total pension was relatively 
small and he had a relatively short period of time to his chosen retirement age. Therefore it 
would be difficult for him to make up the initial adviser charge of 3.5%. 
I also agree with our investigator that Mr M didnt appear to have been an experienced or 
sophisticated investigator at the time of the advice. And while I acknowledge that Mr M 
seemed to have stated in the ATR questionnaire that his standard of living wouldnt be 
affected if he lost money on his investments, I consider that AFS shouldve realised that Mr 
M would be heavily impacted by such losses given his age, lack of capacity for further 
pension contributions, level of other savings and lack of other private pension provision. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr Ms capacity for loss was ever properly discussed with him and in 
my opinion such a conversation shouldve taken place under his circumstances. 
Given Mr Ms age and financial circumstances, Im satisfied that AFS shouldve advised him 
against taking a high level of risk with all his private pension savings. Instead, I consider it 
shouldve advised him to take a more cautious approach so he could be more certain of 
having access to the funds he required in future. Therefore I agree with our investigator that 
AFS shouldnt have recommended the level of risk it did for Mr M. 
I acknowledge that AFS has made a settlement offer without admission of liability. It said that 
Mr M wanted to explore an investment with his brother. And that he wasnt able to do this if he remained in his existing pension arrangements. So it felt that its advice to transfer was 
suitable as it allowed him to achieve his goal. 
But I cant reasonably say that Mr M couldnt have accessed the TFC he felt he would need 
from his existing pension plans. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that AFS carried 
out any sort of assessment of what those plans could offer. And because I also understand 
that FAD was available from both of Mr Ms previous pension providers. I also dont agree 
that AFSs settlement offer puts Mr M back to the position he would most likely be in but for 
the unsuitable advice. For these reasons, I cant reasonably say that AFSs settlement offer 
is fair. 
From what Ive seen, but for the unsuitable advice to transfer to a SIPP and use a DFM, Mr 
M would still be with his existing pension providers. I say this because I agree with Mr M that 
the recommendation exposed his pension funds to significant risk which AFS didnt fully 
advise him on or consider. So Im satisfied that the investment itself wouldnt have taken 
place but for the advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if hed been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M wouldve remained with his previous providers. Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable in this situation.
It should be noted that this compensation doesnt include interest of 8% on any calculated 
financial loss unless AFS dont settle within 28 days of receiving Mr Ms acceptance. This is 
because this method of redress will put Mr M back as closely as possible to where he would 
probably be now but for the unsuitable advice. 
The compensation also doesnt allow for Mr Ms legal costs to be covered by AFS. This is 
because we wouldnt normally award costs for the complainants own time in pursuing a 
complaint, and Ive seen nothing here to suggest that Mr M couldnt have managed his 
complaint himself. 
What must AFS do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, AFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
AFS should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
AFS should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AFS is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice has 
caused him. I can see that given Mr Ms age, and the fact that he will be somewhat 
reliant on his pension savings, the unsuitable advice wouldve caused distress and 
affected his retirement planning. However, my recommended redress will put Mr M 
back to the position he wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFS deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. AFS should give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr M asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr M's investment had it remained with the previous providers until the 
end date. AFS should request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
AFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional 
value instead of deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman