DRN-3714150
The complaint
Mr G complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) asking 
him to pay an additional premium towards claims for the cost of treatment to his dog under 
his pet insurance policy, because of an error in the dogs date of birth.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr G had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy taken out with CG in 2019, which he 
renewed in 2020 and 2021. In July 2021 the dog received treatment for epilepsy and a claim 
made for the cost. The dog required further treatment in September 2021 when a vet 
recommended an MRI scan. Unfortunately, the dog had to be euthanised shortly afterwards.
At the time the scan was advised, the need was discussed with CG. They advised there was 
a limit under the policy of £4,000 on the cost of treatment. As the cost of the scan (and the 
earlier claim) was within the limit, Mr G went ahead with the scan and paid for the cost. 
As part of their assessment of the claims, CG were provided with part of the dogs clinical 
history. However, this indicated the dogs date of birth was different to that CG had recorded 
when the policy was taken out. The clinical history indicated the dogs date of birth was July 
2012  whereas CG had recorded the date of birth as February 2014. Because the dog was 
older than their records indicated, CG told Mr G this affected the premium payable for his 
policy at renewal in May 2021 (£474.31) CG said that had they known the correct date of 
birth, the premium payable on renewal would have been £879.03. Based on this, CG said Mr 
G had misrepresented the date of birth of the dog and needed to pay an additional premium 
of £404.67 before theyd continue with their assessment of his claims.
Unhappy at being asked to pay an additional premium, as well as the time taken to assess 
his claims, Mr G complained to CG. But CG didnt uphold his complaint. In their final 
response, they noted the policy terms setting out the need for policyholders to provide 
accurate information when taking out or renewing a policy. They also referred to their 
reserving the right  where information had not been disclosed or misrepresented  to 
charge a higher premium. They noted the policy was taken out with the incorrect date of birth 
(and Mr G hadnt sought to correct it at subsequent renewals). They confirmed the additional 
premium due. On the time taken to assess the claims, CG said they were missing part of the 
dogs clinical history, so wouldnt be able to assess the claim (and referred to the notice on 
the claim form indicating missing information would delay a claim being assessed). CG 
noted that while the claims had been approved, they wouldnt be settled until the dispute 
over the additional premium was resolved.
Mr G then complained to this service. The main issue was that CG had unfairly asked him to 
pay an additional premium. He wanted CG to settle the claims without deduction of the 
additional premium. Mr G also complained about CG continuing to collect the monthly 
premium for the policy after hed notified them of the death of his dog, until theyd cancelled 
the policy in March 2022.
While CG didnt provide all the information requested by our investigator, based on what was 
provided he upheld the complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. He thought it likely the 
incorrect date of birth was entered by Mr G when the policy was taken out. He also noted the 
incorrect date was set out on the policy schedule provided to Mr G, but he hadnt queried or 
corrected it. While acknowledging CGs view the policy terms and conditions provided for 
additional premium in such circumstances, as CG hadnt provided any evidence to show how 
theyd calculated it, the investigator couldnt say whether CG had acted fairly. 
On the issue of the premiums continuing to be collected after his dog died, the investigator 
noted CG hadnt provided a view or any evidence they were entitled to continue collecting 
them after the death of the dog (five monthly direct debits, each of £39.53). On the delays in 
assessing the claims, the investigator hadnt seen any evidence CG had kept Mr G updated 
on what was happening. 
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should settle Mr Gs claims regardless of any 
additional premium they said was due, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. They should also refund premiums collected after the dogs death. Interest should be 
added to both, from the date of the claims to the date CG settled them and from the date the 
premiums were paid by Mr G to the date they were refunded by CG. Given the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr G by the time taken to assess claims (and being asked why he 
was cancelling his policy after hed told CG of the death of his dog) the investigator thought 
CG should pay Mr G £250 in compensation. 
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions, referring to the terms and conditions on 
cancellation of the policy and challenging the investigators views on how the incorrect date 
of birth could have been recorded on their systems. They also said Mr G hadnt told them 
about the death of his dog until their agent contacted him in March 2022. They maintained 
an additional premium of £404.67 was due because of the incorrect date of birth.
In my findings, on the issue of the additional premium CG said is due under the policy 
because of their having an incorrect date of birth for the dog, I thought the most probable 
explanation for the incorrect date was that Mr G incorrectly entered the dogs date of birth. 
Given this, I thought it reasonable to conclude that correcting the dogs date of birth would 
mean a higher premium would be charged under the policy. However, CG hadnt provided 
any information or explanation about how they calculated the figure. So it wasnt possible for 
me to reach a conclusion on whether the increase was reasonable. So, unless they did 
provide information and explanation, I thought they should settle Mr Gs claims based on the 
original premium for the year in question (£474.31) being deducted from the value of the 
claims concerned (taking account of the actual premiums paid by Mr G) and in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
On the issue of CG continuing to collect the monthly premiums after the death of his dog, I 
concluded CG were aware of the death of Mr Gs dog at the time. I also thought the policy 
terms meant CG were entitled to the full premium, given the claims made (which hadnt been 
settled). So, didnt think they should refund the premiums collected after the death of the 
dog.
I also considered the impact of what happened on Mr G, given my conclusions about CG 
being aware of the death of his dog and what appeared to be a lack of communication and 
clarity about what would then happen. I thought this would have caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr G. Taking the circumstances into account, I thought £250 compensation 
would be reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions in some respects to those of our investigator, I 
issued a provisional conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters 
further. This is set out below.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to express my sympathies to Mr G for the death of his dog, which I appreciate 
will have been distressing for him. But my role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly 
towards Mr G. 
There are several aspects to Mr Gs complaint, which Ill consider in turn. First, theres the 
issue of the additional premium CG say is due in respect of the policy from their having an 
incorrect date of birth for the dog. CG also say they wont settle the claims (which they 
indicate have been approved) until Mr G pays the additional premium. Linked to this is the 
issue of the time taken by CG to assess the claims. Thirdly, theres the issue of CG 
continuing to collect the monthly premiums due, after the death of his dog (which Mr G 
maintains he told CG about at the time).
  
On the first issue, the additional premium CG say is due under the policy because of their 
having an incorrect date of birth for the dog, Ive considered the question of why the date 
was incorrectly recorded. Mr G took out his policy through a comparison website and one of 
the questions asked would have been the dogs date of birth. Ive considered the views of Mr 
G and CG about what is likely to have happened, including the available information and 
evidence. On balance, while its not possible to determine exactly what may have happened, 
I think the most probable explanation is that Mr G incorrectly entered the dogs date of birth. 
Ive come to this view for several reasons. 
CG maintain they dont re-input the data customers input on the comparison website (they 
simply take the information as entered). This is in line with my understanding of how 
comparison websites and insurers operate. Ive also considered the incorrect date of birth 
was shown on policy documents issued to Mr G (including the first renewal schedule, issued 
in 2020, after the policy was first taken out in 2019). The schedule made it clear to Mr G the 
dogs date of birth was incorrect, so he would have had the opportunity to draw it to the 
attention of CG. Its also standard practice when policy documents are first issued (and at 
subsequent renewals) for insurers to ask policyholders to check the information contained in 
the documents, to ensure its accurate and complete  and if it isnt, for the policyholder to 
inform the insurer.
Having concluded, on balance, Mr G is likely to have incorrectly entered a cate of birth and 
would have had the opportunity to correct it when the policy was taken out (from the policy 
documents) and at subsequent renewals (from the renewal documents) then Ive gone on to 
consider whether CG acted fairly in saying an additional premium was due. 
When setting a premium for a policy, insurers assess the level of risk when pricing the policy 
(also taking account of the scope and level of cover provided). This is based on information 
provided by the consumer. For pet insurance policies, its reasonable the age of the pet is 
one of the key pieces of information insurers use when pricing a policy and setting the 
premium. Its reasonable, all other things being equal, that the level of risk increases with the 
age of the pet. Thats because the likelihood of the pet suffering from illness and other 
conditions increases with age  so the incidence of claims and the cost of those claims are 
likely to increase. 
The terms and conditions of the policy also enable CG to change the premium. Under 
Section 10  General Conditions there are two conditions that state:
You must tell us immediately of any changes in Your circumstances that may 
affect Your pet insurance and the cover provided
Some changes may result in a Premium change or Your Policy being voided.Given this, I think its reasonable to conclude that correcting the dogs date of birth 
(indicating it was older than CG thought) would mean a higher premium would be charged 
under the policy (even if no other changes were made to the policy). However, in this case, 
while CG have said the additional premium would be £404.67, they havent provided any 
information or explanation about how theyve calculated the figure. Given this, its not 
possible for me to reach a conclusion on whether the increase is reasonable. Ill come back 
to what I think this means for what would be a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
Mr G also complains about the time taken to assess the claims for treatment to his dog. CG 
say they were awaiting details of part of the dogs clinical history, as well as Mr G paying the 
additional premium they say is due. However, my understanding from what CG have said is 
that the claims have been approved. This suggests the issue isnt now about the missing 
clinical history. So, the issue is the additional premium CG say is due. Again, Ill consider 
what this means for what I think would be a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
On the issue of CG continuing to collect the monthly premiums after the death of his dog 
(which Mr G maintains he told CG about at the time it happened) I think there are two 
aspects to consider. The first is Mr G maintaining he told CG of the death tt the time it 
happened. Hes provided copies of emails sent to CG in September 2021 in which he clearly 
tells them of the death. While the subsequent replies from CG dont acknowledge the death, 
it seems clear to me CG were aware of the death at the time. Ive also noted CG extend their 
condolences to Mr G for the loss of his dog in their final response (December 2021). So, Ive 
concluded CG were aware of the death of Mr Gs dog at the time.
 
However, the premiums for the policy continued to be collected after the death, up to March 
2022 when the policy was cancelled following an exchange between Mr G and CG. Having 
seen the exchange, I can understand why it was distressing for Mr G. I can also understand 
why hes questioning CG continuing to take the premiums (through monthly direct debits) 
after the death. In considering this issue, Ive looked at what the policy says about what 
happens in the unfortunate event of the death of the dog. 
Under Section 17  When the Policy and cover ends theres the following statement, with 
several different events (Ive included the ones I think are relevant):
The Policy will end automatically at the earliest of the following events, the End 
Date:
The Period of Insurance has ended

You or we cancel the Policy
Death of your pet

I think this makes it clear the policy should have ended automatically on the death of the 
dog. However, whats not clear is what this would have meant for the premiums paid at that 
point (or those  where premiums are being paid in instalments  that would have fallen due 
after the policy ended). In their response to our investigator, CG referred to Section 15  
Cancelling Your Policy. This sets out the circumstances where either the policyholder or CG 
may cancel the policy. It also sets out what happens to premiums paid (or yet to be paid). If 
no claim has been made then a pro rata refund of premiums paid will be made for each 
unexpired full month of cover (if the policyholder cancels) or any premium paid for the period 
after the cancellation will be refunded (if CG cancels the policy). However, the position is 
different if a claim has been made. In that scenario, regardless of whether the policy is 
cancelled by CG or the policyholder, the following condition applies:if a claim has been made the full Premium will be due at cancellation, which we 
reserve the right to remove before any claim is made.
While this condition doesnt explicitly refer to the situation where the policy ends 
automatically on the death of the pet, given the inclusion of policy cancellation in the list of 
events that lead to the automatic end of the policy set out above, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that if a claim has been made before the policy ends, the same condition about full 
premium becoming due on policy cancellation (where a claim has been made) will apply. As 
Mr G has made claims at the point the dog died, then Ive concluded the full premium for the 
year would have become due. As Mr G was paying the premium by monthly instalments, 
then Id have expected CG to either request the full outstanding balance of premium due at 
that point; or to offset the balance against the subsequent settlement of his claims; or (as 
what seems to have happened) they continued to collect the outstanding balance due 
through the monthly instalments. Based on this, I think the policy terms mean CG were 
entitled to the full premium, given the claims made (which hadnt been settled). So, dont 
think they should refund the premiums collected after the death of the dog.
However, from what Ive seen, the position wasnt made clear to Mr G (despite what I think 
was CG being aware of the death of his dog at the time it happened). Given this, in the 
circumstances, I can understand his concern about CG continuing to collect the monthly 
instalments for five months after the dogs death. And I think the lack of clarity would have 
been distressing (particularly given what Ive seen about the subsequent exchange between 
him and CG). Ill consider the impact of this when setting out what I think would be a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what CG need to do to put things right. While 
Ive concluded it would have been reasonable to charge an additional premium following 
correction of the dogs date of birth, as they havent provided any information or explanation 
to support the figure theyve given, I cant conclude whether its reasonable. So, unless they 
do provide such information and explanation, I think they should settle Mr Gs claims based 
on the original premium for the year in question (£474.31) being deducted from the value of 
the claims concerned (taking account of the actual premiums paid by Mr G) and in 
accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. As Mr G has already paid 
the vets bills, interest at a rate of 8% simple should be added to the settlement value of the 
claims from the date Mr G paid the bills to the date CG settle the claims.
Ive also considered the impact of whats happened on Mr G, given my conclusions about 
CG being aware of the death of his dog and what appears to be a lack of communication 
and clarity about what would then happen, particularly on the monthly premium instalments. I 
think this would have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr G. Taking the circumstances 
into account, I think £250 compensation would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in 
part. I intend to require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mr Gs claims based on the original premium for the year in question (£474.31) 
being deducted from the value of the claims concerned (taking account of the actual 
premiums paid by Mr G) and in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Pay Mr G £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.As Mr G has already paid the vets bills, interest at a rate of 8% simple should be added to 
the settlement value of the claims from the date Mr G paid the bills to the date Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claims. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr G responded to say he understood the logic of the provisional decision and accepted it. 
CG didnt respond by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mr G.
As Mr G responded to accept my provisional decision, and CG havent responded, then my 
final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. I 
require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Settle Mr Gs claims based on the original premium for the year in question (£474.31) 
being deducted from the value of the claims concerned (taking account of the actual 
premiums paid by Mr G) and in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Pay Mr G £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As Mr G has already paid the vets bills, interest at a rate of 8% simple should be added to 
the settlement value of the claims from the date Mr G paid the bills to the date Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd settle the claims. 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman