DRN-1199838
 
Complaint
Mrs A complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) gave her incorrect 
information about how payments would be allocated to her credit card account.
Background
Mrs A opened a credit card account with JLFS. She says that she was interested in the 
credit card because JLFS was offering 2 promotional rates of interest  0% on balance 
transfers for 18 months and 0% on retail purchases for 9 months.
Mrs A contacted JLFS to activate her card. During the call she says that she was told that 
she could avail of both promotional offers. She asked JLFS to explain how her payments 
would be allocated during the promotional periods. She says that during the call JLFS told 
her that payments would be allocated against retail purchases first because the interest free 
period for retail purchases was 9 months.
Mrs A says that JLFS subsequently told her the payments would be split equally between 
the balance transfer amount and any retail purchases that she made.
A few months later Mrs A checked her credit card statement and noticed that all of the 
payments shed made had been allocated against the balance transfer amount first. She 
says that this wasnt what shed been told would happen. She also said that it meant she 
had a much shorter period of time to clear the retail purchase balance before the 
promotional period ended. She complained to JLFS.  
JLFS investigated her complaint. It told her that the terms and conditions for the account 
made it clear that where amounts were charged at the same interest rate any payments 
were allocated against the oldest amounts first. JLFS acknowledged that Mrs A had been 
given incorrect information when shed contacted it. It offered her £75 by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset shed been caused as a result. 
Mrs A was not satisfied with this response. She said that JLFS should give her a further 
interest free period of 9 months to clear the retail balance on her account. Since JLFS wasnt 
prepared to do that she complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said that the information in the terms and 
conditions and on Mrs As statements was clear. But, he also agreed that JLFS hadnt given 
Mrs A clear information when she contacted it. He thought that £75 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for this error.
Mrs A didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, whilst I know it will come 
as a disappointment to Mrs A, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that JLFS was offering two promotional rates of interest with the credit card that 
Mrs A applied for. Mrs A wanted to avail of both interest rates and that was why she asked 
JLFS to give her more information about how payments would be allocated.
Ive listened to the call that Mrs A made to JLFS before she carried out the balance transfer. 
I can see that Mrs A explained very clearly that she wanted to be able to take full advantage 
of both offers and so she needed to understand how her payments would be allocated 
during the promotional periods. But, I can see that the information she was given wasnt 
clear. She shouldve been told that, during the promotional period, the payments would all go 
to pay off the oldest transaction first. So, if she proceeded with the balance transfer then any 
payments she made would be applied to it first. 
Mrs A contacted JLFS again when she was making her first payment. She asked for 
clarification about how her payments would be allocated. On this occasion she was told that 
her payments would be allocated equally against her balance transfer and her retail 
purchases. So, Mrs A was given incorrect information.
JLFS has accepted that it gave Mrs A incorrect information but it says that she shouldve 
checked the terms and conditions. I can see that the terms and conditions do set out how 
payments are allocated when amounts are charged at the same interest rate. But, where 
Mrs A contacted JLFS to specifically ask about how payments would be allocated, she 
shouldve been given the correct information.
I also think that the order of payments, where there is a dual promotional offer (as in this 
case) was important information about how the offer worked. So it shouldve been brought to 
Mrs As attention either when she applied or before she completed the balance transfer. 
Thats what Id have expected. But, apart from being asked to tick a box online to accept the 
terms and conditions, this information wasnt brought to Mrs As attention when she applied. 
And, as Ive mentioned above, before she completed the balance transfer the information 
she was given wasnt clear.   
I now have to consider how this impacted Mrs As decision making and what loss she 
suffered as a result.
I can see that even after Mrs A was told, incorrectly, that her payments would be allocated 
equally between her balance transfer and her retail purchases she made further retail 
purchases. 
I can also see that in April Mrs As statement made it clear to her that her payments were all 
being used to repay the balance transfer first. This was confirmed to Mrs A when she 
telephoned JLFS in May. Although this was after shed used the card to make retail 
purchases it did give her some time to re-arrange her finances before the 9 month interest 
free period expired in October. 
I can see that Mrs A paid off her balance in full at the end of the 9 month interest free period. 
So, she hasnt had to pay any interest on either the balance transfer or the retail purchases 
that she made. In a case like this Mrs A would be expected to take action to reduce any 
financial loss as soon as she became aware that shed been given incorrect information. 
And, I can see she has done that.JLFS has acknowledged that it gave Mrs A incorrect information and has offered her £75 by 
way of compensation. Ive thought about whether that is enough. 
Its not our role to punish or fine a financial firm where it makes errors or provides incorrect 
information. Our role is to consider the action that the firm took to try to put things right. 
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied that the offer of £75 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. So, whilst I can understand why Mrs A has complained about the service 
she received, I dont require JLFS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint about John Lewis Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
 
 
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman