DRN-1671804
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Caversham Finance Limited (Brighthouse) damaged his property when 
a sofa he ordered was delivered. He says damage was caused to his front door when the 
sofa was brought through it. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr B ordered a sofa.  This was delivered on 5 December 2019.  The 
following day, Mr B noticed that a large part of his door had come away, and he couldn't find 
it. He made a complaint to Caversham believing the damage had been caused during the 
delivery; he felt the sofa had been pushed through and the damage caused by the feet. He 
also thought this might have been the cause of some humour for the delivery men. 
Caversham didn't uphold the complaint. It explained it had obtained information from the 
delivery men that the feet had to be removed otherwise the sofa wouldn't have fit through the 
door way. It also said Mr B completed documentation to confirm that he was happy with the 
delivery and that no damage had occurred. 
Although our investigator initially though Caversham hadn't done anything wrong, on further 
information from Mr B - pictures of the damaged door and the feet of the sofa - she was 
satisfied the damage had most likely been caused during the delivery. She therefore 
required Caversham to pay for a repair. 
Caversham asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Although the job sheets 
suggests the delivery men had completed the delivery in five minutes, it was satisfied that as 
professionals that was sufficient for them to remove the sofa feet, and packaging. It also 
points out that Mr B signed to say he was happy with the delivery and that no damage had 
been caused and feels his testimony has changed. Its unhappy Mr B's testimony is being 
accepted and thinks he would have noticed the damage immediately had it been caused 
during the delivery.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr B had a damaged door. The pictures Mr B has taken show the 
damage to be about a third of the way up the door and on the hinge side, on the outside of 
the door. The door itself opens inwards. This means that when the door is open, the hinge 
edge is exposed and faces outward.  
The question I need to ask is whether the delivery of the sofa was the likely cause of the 
damage? Having considered the matter carefully I think it was. Mr B's testimony about what 
happened is evidence. As is the information provided by Caversham. I consider it entirely plausible, given the height of the damage, and that it occurred on the 
outer edge, that the damage was caused during the delivery. I have considered 
Caversham's comments that the feet were removed and reattached once the sofa was 
inside Mr B's property. And I have weighed that against Mr B's testimony that the feet 
weren't removed. 
I have also considered the close up pictures of the sofa feet. The feet aren't caster feet, 
which are designed to be removed and put back in place. The feet on Mr B's sofa are 
entirely different. They are metal and are attached by at least two small screws each. And 
whilst I accept the delivery men are professionals and know how to deliver goods, I think it 
would have taken longer to remove the feet and refix them, along with actually delivering and 
unpackaging the sofa, than Caversham says the job sheet recorded the job took.  
I also think the damage is at a height consistent with a sofa being delivered; about a third of 
the way up the door. And given the damage is on the outward facing edge of the door, I 
consider it entirely consistent with that part of the door being hit/banged into by a large and 
heavy object. 
I have considered Caversham's arguments that Mr B signed in acceptance of there being no 
damage and that he was happy with the delivery. I have also considered Mr B's testimony 
that he was only asked to sign for the delivery. I would expect someone to check what they 
were signing before they signed it. But I don't think his completion of the document means 
the damage didn't occur during the delivery, just that he didn't notice it at the time. So I don't 
find this very persuasive.
Overall, having considered the evidence carefully, I find the damage most likely happened 
during the delivery of the sofa.  It follows that Caversham needs to put this right.  
Putting things right
If Mr B has already had the damage repaired, then on provision of an invoice or some such 
other reasonable proof of his outlay, I require Caversham to reimburse Mr B. 
However, if the damage is yet to be repaired, then I require Caversham to arrange a repair 
of Mr B's door at its own expense.  Caversham may need Mr B to arrange quotes, which I 
consider to be a reasonable request. It will then be for Caversham to select the quote and 
arrange a repair at Mr B's earliest convenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Caversham Finance Limited to 
redress Mr B as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman