DRN-2936357
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt pay the full amount of interest when it 
accepted his section 75 Consumer Credit Act claim. 
What happened
 In June 2017 Mr M paid for a service which subsequently wasnt supplied. He paid £1000
with his Barclays credit card and a further £7,154.00 was paid by bank transfer. Mr Ms
made a claim under section 75 in August 2019 and after being initially refused the bank
accepted his claim in December 2019. It offered to pay £8154 plus interest and
compensation.
Mr M asked about the impact on his credit file and Barclays arranged for the correct
balances to be reflected on his account and updated the credit agencies for the period July
2019 to December 2019. It also apologised for the poor service.
Mr M disputed the banks interest calculations and in due course in a letter dated 26 March
2020 it set out the corrected figures. In August 2020 Barclays provided a full and final
computation of its final settlement including compensation and interest. It also explained why
it would not apply interest to the £7154 that had been paid from Mr Ms bank account.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He said Barclays should have put him back in the position he would have been
had been if he had not paid for the service which hadnt been supplied. He sought additional
compensation for the amount of time he had spent on his complaint and interest on the
£7,124.
Our investigator said that Barclays had paid £250 in compensation for the delays caused by
giving him an incorrect answer and this was fair. It had also paid him a further £200 for
errors in calculating the interest in March 2020 and a further £50 for errors in August. He
thought this was fair.
However, he didnt consider that Barclays should pay interest on the money paid direct from
Mr Ms bank account. He noted that this wasnt an interest bearing account and while the
funds may have come from the sale of shares he didnt think interest could be calculated on
this sum.
He said that Barclays had claimed in its documentation explaining section 75 that in addition
to may cover the full cost of an item even if not all had been paid on credit card and it may
also cover reasonable expenses. He said he had spent more time and energy pursuing his
claim due to its errors.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained the relevance of Section 75 and how it offers protection to customers who use 
certain types of credit to make purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the 
consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer 
providing the goods or services, if there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I said it had been accepted by Barclays that there was a breach of contract and the money 
paid out by Mr M has been repaid. However, he was seeking additional compensation and 
interest.
I noted that the bank has paid a total of £500 in compensation to reflect delays and errors in 
calculating the interest payable. I explained this service would not seek to have the bank pay 
for a consumers time in pursuing a complaint and I could only consider compensation for 
any trouble and upset Mr M had suffered.
I said we didnt we seek to punish the bank for those errors. Having reviewed the complaint 
and considered the delays and errors I considered the sum of £500 was fair and in line with 
the level of compensation we would expect to see. I appreciated Mr M was seeking a larger 
sum, but I didnt consider that to be merited.
On the matter of interest, I said I had reached a different conclusion to that of the bank and 
our investigator. As far as the payment of the sum paid by credit card is concerned, I 
explained I would expect the credit card account to be reworked with £1,000 debit removed 
so that Mr M was put back in the position he would have been had the money not been paid. 
I believed this is what Barclays had done and the figure has been agreed at £522.37. I 
wasnt aware that this calculation was disputed by Mr M.
This left the sum of £7,154 paid from Mr Ms current account, but apparently sourced from 
the sale of shares. The reality is that Mr M was deprived of the use of that money from June 
2017 until May 2020. Given the source of the funds I agreed it would be difficult to identify 
the actual loss, if any. However, this service normally requires businesses to pay annual 
interest at 8% simple to recompense consumers for the loss of use of their money. I didnt 
see why this should not apply to Mr M.
In short, I said he paid money for a service which wasnt delivered and he has lost out as a 
result of that. This included not only the money he paid out but the loss of use of that money. 
As such I considered Barclays should pay interest on the sum of £7,154.
Barclays agreed and Mr M said that he wanted a refund of reasonable expenses and 
additional charges. I asked him to clarify what charges he thought should be repaid. He 
responded and said: The extra fees that I raised the issue was with the way they pay the 
refund of interest on the £1000 from the date they were asked for the refund but they refused 
to pay the interest refund on the £7154 over the same period. I would like to say they were 
charging 23%APR or around that. He said he had spent a lot of time pursuing his complaint 
and he should be paid interest on his credit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mr Ms comments, but I am not persuaded that any more compensation or redress is due. The £7,154 is separate from any payments Mr M made by credit card and as 
such they should not be credited to his credit card account. That sum was refunded as an 
addition to the refund of his credit card payment. I cannot say what Mr M would have done 
with that money had it been repaid earlier, but it is not certain that he would have used it to 
make any payments due to his credit card account.
The addition of interest ensures that he is compensated for the loss of use of that money 
and to add any further sums may well be duplication. I have already explained in my 
provisional decision that this service does not order compensation for the time taken in 
pursuing a complaint and I consider the sum already paid by the bank to be fair. 
In conclusion I do not consider any further sums need to be paid to Mr M in respect of his 
s.75 claim other than the interest I suggested in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
 The bank should pay interest on £7,514. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay interest on £7,154 from the date 
this sum was paid by Mr M until it was repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman