DRN-1031791
The complaint
 Mr H complains that his accounts with TSB Bank Plc (TSB) unfairly had their interest rates 
reduced despite previous promises from the bank. Also that TSB didnt return calls promised 
to him.
 Background
Mr H wrote to TSB after receiving a letter telling him the interest rates on his two accounts 
were being reduced in a months time. He argued that in both an email he had received and 
in an interview with the BBC, the former CEO of TSB had said the improved interest rate on 
the Classic Plus Account (CPA) wouldnt be changed after a year. Mr H felt he had been lied 
to.
TSB wrote back saying that the account had benefitted from the higher rate for longer than a 
year and they need to amend interest rates from time to time to reflect market conditions.
Mr H followed this up with a telephone call to TSB saying he was unhappy with the 
response. Mr H also claims TSB promised a call back and these were never received. TSB 
say that they never promised a call back to Mr H but they said they would try to.  Unhappy 
with the fact he never got a call and their original decision regarding his interest rate 
complaint, the matter was referred to this service.
The Investigator felt that TSB hadnt lied to Mr H as the interest rate benefit for the CPA had 
been provided for longer than 12 months meeting its original promise. The investigator felt 
that perhaps TSB could have dealt with Mr H issue about the call backs more efficiently and 
suggested that they pay Mr H a compensation of £50 for that.  
TSB felt unhappy with the Investigators outcome regarding the compensation. Mr H 
accepted the decision regarding the interest rate outcome by the Investigator but felt the 
compensation awarded should be higher. 
The matter was sent to an Ombudsman for a decision. 
 My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has accepted the outcome that TSB have not done anything wrong 
regarding the interest rate changes and does accept the decision made by the Investigator. 
From my point of view I feel its worthwhile to just say that the original increase in the interest 
rate was an act of good will by TSB recognising previous service issues and to recognise 
customer loyalty. But that didnt change the fact that the interest rate on Mr Hs accounts is 
variable and he is still bound by the terms and conditions here. 
I do understand the frustration when Mr H thought that the increase rate might be in place for 
a longer period though .I can understand why he thought the initial messages from TSB around this were unclear. But I dont think this means he was lied to - after all the account 
did have the increased rate for over a year. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
In looking at the issue of the call backs I can see that, while TSB has followed its procedures 
here, the situation could have been better handled by TSB.
I can see that TSB have said they cant promise to call customers back. But this was clearly 
an important matter for Mr H and he felt strongly about it.  I think that what TSB said to him 
wouldve given the impression that it was dealing and escalating his concerns and I can 
understand why he might have been expecting a call back.
I realise this might not have been part of TSBs process  but in the individual circumstances 
here, I think either calling Mr H back, or being clearer that they werent going to speak to him 
any further wouldve helped.
In the circumstances given the upset caused I agree with the Investigator that a payment of 
£50 should be made here and is a fair amount in the circumstances. I realise Mr H thinks 
TSB should pay more, but overall, I think this amount is reasonable
My final decision
 My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should pay £50 as compensation to Mr H. I make no 
further award against it.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman