DRN-4302377
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the loan settlement figure given to him by Everyday Lending Limited, 
trading as Everyday Loans.
What happened
Mr D took out a £7,500 loan with Everyday Loans with an interest rate of 40% APR. Mr D 
made six monthly payments to the loan, totalling nearly £1,800, and then asked for a figure 
to settle the loan. Everyday Loans provided a settlement figure to Mr D. But the settlement 
figure was £7,868.34, which Mr D felt was too high and which must have been calculated 
incorrectly. So, he raised a complaint. 
Everyday Loans responded to Mr D and confirmed that the settlement figure had been 
calculated correctly. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Everyday Loans response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Everyday Loans had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed this situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr D took the loan with Everyday Loans he agreed to the terms of that loan. These 
included that Mr D would borrow £7,500 over a term of 60 months with an interest rate of 
40% APR, which meant that if Mr D repaid the loan for the full 60-month term he would 
repay £17,941.20.
It was at the discretion of Mr D to agree to the terms of the loan offered to him by Everyday 
Loan or not. And it isnt for this service to comment on the terms of the loan that Mr D has 
agreed to. 
Additionally, upon review, Im satisfied that Everyday Loans has provided a settlement figure 
to Mr D thats in line with the terms of his loan agreement. 
I can appreciate that this settlement figure may seem high to Mr D, given the monthly 
payments hes already made to the loan. But given the relatively high interest rate that this 
loan incurs, it must be acknowledged that the majority portion of the monthly payments that 
Mr D has made to date is considered as being payment of loan interest. And Im satisfied 
that the explanation of the settlement figure that Everyday Loans provided to Mr D, which 
included that after the six payments made by Mr D that over £7,200 of the loan capital 
balance remained, is correct. 
Mr D may not be happy that he must pay such a large amount of interest alongside the 
capital balance of the loan. But as explained, Mr D consented to the loan interest rate when 
he accepted the loan agreement. And while I understand that Mr D may now wish for a more 
beneficial loan agreement, his wishes in this respect dont invalidate the loan agreement 
which he signed and accepted. 
Accordingly, I dont consider Everyday Loans adherence to the present loan agreement  
including the provision of a loan settlement figure to Mr D which has been calculated in line 
with those terms  to be unfair.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows from what Ive explained 
above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Everyday Loans to take any 
further action here. I hope Mr D will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman