DRN-2618546
The complaint
Mr G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has held on to funds which belong to his limited 
company, P. He wants Barclays to return the funds and pay compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr G is a director of multiple limited companies, which held business accounts with Barclays.  
Barclays froze all the companies accounts in 2019 and decided to close them. The accounts 
held various balances. P held two accounts; one which held a large balance, and a 
secondary account which held a smaller but still significant balance.
Mr G contacted Barclays because he couldnt access the funds. Barclays said it wouldnt 
release the funds and asked Mr G for evidence to demonstrate the origin of the payments 
paid into one of Ps accounts. Mr G sent Barclays evidence he says establishes Ps 
entitlement to the funds.
Mr G complained to Barclays. They upheld his complaint in part and offered £500 for the 
length of time it took to answer the complaint and for not closing Ps accounts sooner. But it 
refused to return funds to P.
 
Barclays sent Mr G a letter in early 2020. It had moved most of the funds in Ps accounts to 
a sundry account and said releasing those funds to P would put it at risk of future legal 
claims by third parties. It said it was returning three payments from Ps account to the 
accounts the payments were sent from. And it sent a cheque to Mr G for the remaining 
balance that wasnt moved to its sundry account.
Barclays didnt tell Mr G its full reasons for keeping the funds. And Mr G is unhappy he 
hasnt been told what more Barclays require from him or what concerns it has. He thought 
the block probably related to a payment he attempted to stop on one of Ps accounts which 
Barclays allowed to go through. He didnt understand why his other companies accounts 
were also frozen and then closed.
 
Barclays later sent Mr G cheques for the balances held on the other companies accounts, 
except for Ps accounts.
 
An investigator at our service considered the complaint. They clarified they were only 
considering what happened on Ps accounts and not the other accounts held by Mr Gs other 
companies. In summary they found:
- Barclays has important legal and regulatory responsibilities to meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations mean it may monitor accounts and 
sometimes prevent customers from accessing funds. The terms of Barclays account 
also permit it to suspend accounts during a review.
- Barclays hadnt made an error when blocking Ps accounts. And considering all the 
information available, Barclays had demonstrated it acted reasonably by withholding 
the remaining funds. Mr G submitted evidence in support of Ps entitlement to the 
funds, but it was understandable why Barclays concluded this was insufficient.
- The offer Barclays had made was fair and reasonable compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience caused in the circumstances of the complaint.
Barclays accepted the investigators findings. But Mr G didnt. He said:
- Barclays previously lost the evidence he had sent regarding Ps entitlement to funds.
- Barclays allowed a payment to debit one of Ps accounts despite Mr G telling them 
not to process the payment.
 
- Barclays hadnt notified Mr G on whether payments had been returned to senders. If 
those funds were now returned, why couldnt Barclays return the remaining balance 
to P.
- £500 wasnt enough to compensate P. Barclays acknowledged it ought to have 
closed Ps accounts immediately without notice. It had processed a payment it 
shouldnt have. It should have asked for proof of funds earlier. And Barclays staff had 
acknowledged they were surprised by how long things had taken.
The investigator responded and said Barclays were able to keep the remaining funds 
because Barclays wasnt satisfied with the information Mr G had sent. Returning some of the 
funds to senders didnt mean Barclays had to return the remaining balance to P or that it 
should be satisfied P was entitled to the remaining balance.
Mr G responded. He said the investigator hadnt dealt with his point that Barclays offer was 
insufficient compensation. Barclays wouldnt tell him what more information it needed or 
what the third-party claims regarded and whether they had been repaid.
Mr G asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided that Barclays current offer of £500 is fair. I have also decided Barclays does 
not need to release the funds it holds to P. Ill explain why:
- Barclays must monitor accounts and ensure it understands the nature of its 
customers businesses. And, where appropriate, it may need to ensure it has enough 
evidence to establish the origin of funds it holds on a customers account.
So, Barclays may have to take reasonable steps to comply with its responsibilities. 
These might include restricting a customers access to their account, which isnt 
uncommon in the retail banking industry, even if Mr G may not have experienced it 
before.
- Mr G thinks Barclays decision to block the accounts was a disproportionate 
response to when he contacted it to stop a payment being processed. But Im satisfied Barclays had a legitimate reason to block the accounts and review the 
activity on them, including the payments that credited Ps account.
- Mr G believes he provided all the evidence Barclays asked for to establish Ps 
entitlement. But, after balancing what he provided against the basis for Barclays 
decision and the other information I have, I understand why Barclays finds what he 
provided insufficient. Although Barclays said it returned some funds to third partys, 
this doesnt mean it should be satisfied P is entitled to the remaining balance.
- Mr G provided invoices for certain payments, and a description of the payments and 
the nature of his businesses. He wants to know what more he can provide to 
demonstrate Ps entitlement to the funds. But it is for Mr G to seek advice on what 
more he can provide to demonstrate the bona fides of his contractual relationship 
with each of the persons who made payments to Ps account.
- Mr G wants to know who made claims against P and what were they. But Barclays 
doesnt need to reveal this information. So, I am not going to now provide this 
information by virtue of Mr G bringing this complaint.
- I understand Mr G experienced personal distress caused by Barclays actions. And I 
was sorry to hear about what happened. But any loss Mr G personally experienced, 
is not a loss I can consider. This is because the complainant is P, a limited company, 
which is legally distinct from Mr G. Barclays provided services to P and not Mr G in 
his personal capacity. So, while Mr G represents P in bringing this complaint, his 
losses are not those of P, and I cannot consider them under the rules which govern 
our service.
- I can consider losses caused to P. But I dont find I can reasonably award more that 
the offer made by Barclays. My role is not to award compensation to P to fine or 
punish Barclays for things it could have done better. It is to, where possible, put P 
back in the position it shouldve been in but for an error Barclays made.
But whether Barclays asked Mr G for evidence earlier or should have closed Ps 
accounts earlier, I dont find Ps situation would have changed significantly. I dont 
see why Ps position would be any different.in regard to not receiving the funds 
Barclays hold. 
For the reasons I have given, I find Barclays should pay P £500 unless it has already been 
paid. But I am not going to direct Barclays to do anything more.
My final decisionIve decided to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay P £500 subject to the instruction Ive 
given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman