DRN-4155121
The complaint
Ms W and Mr W have complained about delays and poor customer service by Aviva Equity 
Release UK Limited in relation to an application for a change of parties on an equity release 
mortgage. They are asking Aviva to compensate them for financial loss, distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr W has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of himself and Ms W.
What happened
I do not need to set out the history of the complaint. There are several reasons for this. First 
of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so there is no need for 
me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I 
dont include any information that might lead to Ms W and Mr W being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
Briefly, Ms W had an equity release mortgage with Aviva, taken out in 2015. In 2020 she and 
Mr W decided to sell their respective properties and purchase another together, keeping the 
equity release mortgage. In order to do this, it was necessary to add Mr W to the mortgage. 
This took much longer than expected, and complaints were raised with Aviva about both its 
process and about the delay. When these werent resolved to Ms W and Mr Ws satisfaction, 
they were referred to our service.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He explained that we couldnt consider 
Mr Ws complaint that Aviva had required him to take independent legal advice, as this was 
out of time. 
In relation to the delays, the investigator noted that Aviva had offered compensation to cover 
interest for 55 days at £4.38 per day, but he thought that the delays were, in fact, 60 days in 
total, and he has since clarified to both parties that the redress he thought Aviva should pay 
is for the 60 days at £4.38 per day. He was satisfied that the redress payable to Ms W for 
additional interest of £50.68 shed had to pay on another mortgage was fair. Aviva had also 
offered £750 as compensation for distress and inconvenience, which the investigator thought 
was fair and reasonable.
Aviva had agreed to consider refunding additional costs if these were justified and itemised, 
but didnt agree with the costs Ms W and Mr W were claiming and so wouldnt agree to 
reimburse these. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,300 pages of documents and 
numerous telephone call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to all the recordings, 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. 
Im not required to comment on each and every point Ms W and Mr W have made. No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
On 12 June 2023 I issued a decision in which I found that Mr Ws complaint that Aviva had 
required him to take his own independent legal advice, as a result of which he incurred legal 
costs, is outside the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. I will therefore make 
no further comment on this.
Its clear that the transaction took much longer than all parties anticipated, and I have no 
doubt this has been a stressful time for Ms W and Mr W. However, what I have to decide is 
whether all the delays Mr W has complained of can be attributed to any act or omission on 
the part of Aviva or its solicitors. 
Ive reviewed the timeline of events in detail, taking into account what Ms W and Mr W, Aviva 
and the investigator have said. Having done so, Im satisfied that there were 60 days of 
delays that can be attributed to Aviva. Because the investigator provided a detailed analysis 
of the events which caused these delays, I am not going to repeat them here; all parties 
have had a copy of the investigators findings, and as I said above, its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms W and Mr W being identified.
Ive taken careful note of everything Mr W has said about why he holds Aviva entirely 
responsible for the length of time the transaction took. However, the evidence that the 
majority of the delays were caused by the solicitors acting for him and/or him and Ms W is 
more persuasive than Mr Ws arguments that all the delays can be attributed to the acts or 
omissions of Aviva or its solicitors.
Im satisfied that Aviva should compensate Ms W and Mr W for the 60 days delays it is 
responsible for  55 of which Aviva has accepted, and another 5 which the investigator 
found it to be liable for. Aviva has calculated the daily rate for the loss of interest at £4.68, 
which I think is correct.
Aviva should also reimburse the additional interest which Ms W had to pay as a result of a 
delay in her being able to overpay one of her buy-to-let mortgages, which is £50.68. Im 
satisfied that Ms W and Mr W were caused distress, upset and inconvenience, for which 
Aviva must compensate them. I think the £750 offered by Aviva is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate, taking into account all the circumstances of the case. 
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, I direct Aviva Equity Release UK Limited to do the following:
reimburse to Ms W and Mr W 60 days interest at £4.38 per day  a total of £262.80;
reimburse to Ms W £50.68 interest in relation to her BTL mortgage interest;
pay Ms W and Mr W compensation of £750 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I direct 
Aviva Equity Release UK Limited to settle the complaint as directed above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman