DRN-3092579
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) was misrepresented to him.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September this year. An extract from 
that provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr M. So, if I was persuaded he wasnt told something that was important
and that would have led him to not enter into the agreement had he known about it, I would
think the agreement had been misrepresented and Id ask Santander to take some action.
Mr M has provided copies of the documents he found in the car after he drove it away. 
Those documents show that an extensive repair was completed to the car about four months
before he collected it. The repair included replacement of a door and a repair to the central B
pillar that supports the roof. The door, wing, side panel and sill all needed painting. A further
document shows that the repair was completed through an insurance claim.
Santander dont dispute that a repair was completed but they say that theres no evidence
the car was in an accident and the car has never been written off. Theyve provided copies
of reports that demonstrate the car was not a write off. They say that in that case the car
wasnt misrepresented to Mr M as they didnt have to tell him about the damage and werent
aware of it.
Its clear this car wasnt an insurance write off. The insurer has clearly been prepared to
repair the car and therefore deemed it economical to do so. Had the value of the car been
less they may have made a decision to write it off as I can envisage the cost of the quite
extensive repair would be high.
Mr M has explained that he found the documents on his way home and, as a result, took the
car back to the dealership the next day (30 October 2020) to reject it. He says the dealership
took the documents off him and asked to keep the car for a few days. Mr M says when he
went back to collect it on 3 November 2020 they wouldnt provide a refund.
Im persuaded that Mr Ms testimony is likely to be correct because I can see Santanders
system notes explain that Mr M called them that day to complain about the issue.
I think the dealership should have been aware of the repair that had been completed on this
car. I say that because I think its reasonable to suggest the car would have been subject to
an inspection and checks before it was supplied to Mr M. That inspection would have been
likely to reveal the documents Mr M subsequently found and should therefore have alerted
the dealership to the cars history.
Whilst the car wasnt written off as a result of the damage it had sustained I think it was
information Mr M would have wanted to know about, and reasonably have expected to be
informed about, when making a decision to buy the car. I think damage to the central pillar
would be a concern to a consumer. Theyd want to be assured of the cars structural integrity
and may, as was the case here, be concerned about the impact on the cars resale value.
So, I think there was important information that the dealership were most likely aware of and
that, if known by Mr M would have resulted in him not proceeding with this agreement.
And, even if Im wrong about the dealership probably being aware of the damage before
supply, I think it was unreasonable not to allow Mr M to reject the car when he brought it
back to them the very next day having identified important information about the repair. I
think they should have been more understanding and have realised the information was
available and that had it been supplied the consumer would not have proceeded.
Its for these reasons I think Santander should allow Mr M to reject the car.
Ive therefore thought about how to put things right for Mr M.
Im expecting to tell Santander to take the car back and cancel Mr Ms finance agreement.
Theyll need to collect the car at no cost to him.
I dont think the presence of the repair will have reduced Mr Ms use of the car so I think
Santander should be allowed to keep any finance instalments hes paid them in respect of
the use hes had from the car. But Mr Ms enjoyment of the vehicle will have been impacted 
as its now clear its history is not as unblemished as he thought it was. So, I think Santander 
should refund 10% of any finance instalments Mr M has paid in respect of his loss of 
enjoyment.
Mr M has also been inconvenienced by these issues. I think Santander should have allowed
him to reject the car in November 2020 and it is now early September 2021. Mr M has had to
keep a car he didnt want for almost a year and has had to escalate his complaint to this
service when I think it should have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Im
expecting to tell Santander to pay him £250 to compensate him for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
Santander will also need to refund any deposit that may have been paid by Mr M, to help put
him back in the position he would have been in had the misrepresentation not have
happened. They should add interest to the refund as Mr M has been deprived of the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:allow Mr M to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid until the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund any deposit Mr M may have paid and add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and explained that as a consequence of the 
delay in resolving his complaint he now found himself in a difficult position. He said that cars 
had appreciated in value in the last few years and to buy a car of the same age, make and 
model would now cost him much more. He thought Santander should put that right for him.
Santander also responded to my provisional decision. They didnt agree with it and 
explained that there was nothing to show that this car had been in a previous accident when 
the dealership took receipt of it. That fact only became apparent after the car was sold and it 
didnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive thought about what Mr M and Santander have said but it hasnt changed my decision on 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst I think its reasonable to hold Santander responsible for the misrepresentation of this 
car I dont think it would be fair to hold them responsible for changes in retail value that have 
occurred since Mr M took receipt of the vehicle. Santander should, as much as is possible, 
put Mr M back in the position he wouldve been in had he not entered into the deal with 
them. That means, for instance, cancelling the agreement and taking back the car, but I 
dont think its fair to ask them to account for price inflation.
Santander have again stressed that there was no knowledge of the accident damage before 
the car was supplied and that there is no evidence the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I 
considered that point in my provisional decision, I said:
I think the dealership should have been aware of the repair that had been completed on this
car. I say that because I think its reasonable to suggest the car would have been subject to
an inspection and checks before it was supplied to Mr M. That inspection would have been
likely to reveal the documents Mr M subsequently found and should therefore have alerted
the dealership to the cars history.
Whilst the car wasnt written off as a result of the damage it had sustained I think it was
information Mr M would have wanted to know about, and reasonably have expected to be
informed about, when making a decision to buy the car. I think damage to the central pillar
would be a concern to a consumer. Theyd want to be assured of the cars structural integrity
and may, as was the case here, be concerned about the impact on the cars resale value.
So, I think there was important information that the dealership were most likely aware of and
that, if known by Mr M would have resulted in him not proceeding with this agreement.
And, even if Im wrong about the dealership probably being aware of the damage before
supply, I think it was unreasonable not to allow Mr M to reject the car when he brought it
back to them the very next day having identified important information about the repair. Ithink they should have been more understanding and have realised the information was
available and that had it been supplied the consumer would not have proceeded.
So, I dont think theres evidence that has led me to revise my provisional decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr M to reject the car and end his finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid until the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused;
refund any deposit Mr M may have paid and add 8% simple interest per year from
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman