DRN-3211065
The complaint
Mrs D says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), trading as Fashion World, 
irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that interest and late payment charges she paid 
on the account from July 2017 be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a Fashion World catalogue shopping account J D Williams 
provided to Mrs D. The account was opened in October 2016 when Mrs D was given an 
initial credit limit of £200. This limit was increased 8 times until it eventually reached £2,750 
in November 2018. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ds complaint and thought that J D Williams ought 
to have realised Mrs D simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit 
by the time it offered Mrs D the increased credit limit on her account to £2000 in 
November 2017. As J D Williams has disagreed with what they said, although they 
accepted that it shouldnt have increased Mrs Ds credit limit in November 2018, the 
complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
D could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mrs D with any further credit from November 2017 onwards. J D Williams didnt 
agree with what our adjudicator said. It said Mrs Ds ability to repay didnt become 
unsustainable until later, in November 2018. 
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mrs D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that would 
mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have increased Mrs Ds credit 
limits.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ds case, I also think this point was reached in 
November 2017, when JD Williams increased Mrs Ds credit limit to £2000. I say this 
because proportionate affordability checks would have likely shown J D Williams that 
Mrs D was by that time having difficulty managing her money. Ive seen that from early 
2017 Mrs D was making only minimum payments, and on two occasions failed to meet 
them. 
Also, by November 2017 Mrs D had by then accumulated debt commitments to several 
other creditors -  including a significant amount of short-term lending. And I can see that 
from August 2018 she had started to get into difficulty with meeting some of these 
payments too, which I think demonstrates the further credit JD Williams gave her was 
unaffordable. 
So I think that proportionate checks will have likely shown J D Williams that Mrs D was 
already struggling to manage the credit she already had and that there was a significant 
risk increasing her credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mrs D lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit from 
November 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mrs Ds 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So J D Williams should put 
things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mrs Ds account to ensure that from 9 November 2017 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to £1500, including any buy now pay later 
interest (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; andIf an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mrs D to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Mrs D has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from 9 November 2017 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results is there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs D, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D Williams 
should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file from 9 November 
2017 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
Given that J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on the account to a third party in  
August 2019, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Mrs D an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ds complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman