DRN-2398158
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank plc trading as First Direct refused to open a Regular 
Saver account for him over the telephone.
What happened
Mr A had a Regular Saver account with First Direct. He says the account had to be re-
opened every twelve months. He had continued with the account over several years. He 
says he was told each time he had to re-open the account using online banking. But, despite 
this he was always able to open the account using the telephone.
The account was due to be re-opened in July 2020. Mr A says he telephoned First Direct 
and asked it to re-open the account. He says it refused. It told him he had to re-open the 
account using online banking. He was told it would only take five minutes.
Mr A complained about this. He said that First Direct had lied to him when it said he couldnt 
re-open the account over the phone. He said it had always opened the account over the 
phone in the past. And, he said it lied to him when it said it would only take five minutes to 
re-open the account online. He didnt have online banking and had no passwords for it. He 
said he wouldnt feel confident or safe using online banking.
First Direct investigated his complaint. It told him it had made a commercial decision in 
October 2019 that all applications to open its Regular Saver account would have to be 
completed online. It said this was made clear in the letter it had sent Mr A as his account 
was reaching its twelve month anniversary. It said it had not lied to him about this decision.
First Direct acknowledged it could take longer than five minutes to open an account online if 
the customer wasnt registered for online banking. When it told Mr A about this timescale it 
said it was speaking generally. It recognised that for some customers it would take longer to 
apply online.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with what First Direct told him. He complained to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. When he issued his initial view about the complaint 
First Direct hadnt sent us its file. It then sent its file. 
Our investigator said that after looking at First Directs file he was satisfied it hadnt done 
anything wrong. He said First Direct had made a commercial decision to only accept online 
applications to open the account. He said our service couldnt comment on a commercial 
decision made by First Direct. He also thought First Direct had given Mr A correct 
information when it told him he had to apply online and it was no longer accepting telephone 
applications. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information First Direct publishes on its website about the Regular Saver 
account. This account provides a fixed rate of interest for twelve months. Regular monthly 
contributions can be paid into the account. After twelve months the account is automatically 
closed, and the balance transferred to another savings account with First Direct.
So, each year a new account has to be opened if the customer wants to operate a Regular 
Saver account. And, the new account will be subject to the terms and conditions and the 
interest rate that applies at the date when it is opened.
The Summary Box for the Regular Saver account makes clear that the account can only be 
opened online or through the Mobile App. First Direct says that up until 3 October 2019 it 
also permitted the account to be opened by telephone. But it no longer makes that option 
available.
Mr As account reached its twelve month anniversary on 15 July 2020. Hed received a letter 
from First Direct dated 2 July 2020 which set out that, if he wanted to open a new Regular 
Saver account he could do so. The letter said he needed to apply online or through the 
Mobile App to do this.
I understand Mr A wasnt happy with this change and he didnt want to have to use online 
banking. But Im satisfied First Direct had decided to make this change. And, I can see the 
change to the terms and conditions affected everyone who wanted to open a Regular Saver 
account.  
Our service is not a regulator. So, its not our role to ask First Direct to change its policy or 
procedure about how an account can be opened. But when looking at Mr As complaint, I 
can consider whether First Directs policy has been implemented in a way which is fair and 
reasonable to Mr A.
Im satisfied First Direct told Mr A about the change when it wrote to him on 2 July 2020. So, 
he did have a short period of time after that date, and before his Regular Saver account was 
closed, to make arrangements to register for online banking if he wanted to open a new 
account at the anniversary date.
Mr A says he had been told previously he had to use internet banking to open the account. 
So, he says this wasnt a change and First Direct was lying to him when it told him it wouldnt 
open the account over the telephone. 
Having thought about what Mr A has said, I think that whilst Mr A may have been 
encouraged to use online banking on previous occasions, First Direct didnt make a decision 
to change its terms until October 2019. It was only after this date that it required all Regular 
Saver accounts to be opened online. So, I dont agree it was lying to him when it told him its 
policies and procedures required the account to be opened online.
Mr A has mentioned he doesnt like using online banking. And, he says it would take a long 
time to get registered for it. Hes also said he wouldnt feel confident or safe using online 
banking.
I agree it would take longer than five minutes to get everything set up to be able to use 
online banking. First Direct has also acknowledged this. But, Mr A didnt tell First Direct there 
was any reason why he couldnt register for online banking or its Mobile App.So, although Mr A doesnt like the new terms and conditions and doesnt want to register for 
online banking or the Mobile App, it is the case that if he wants to open a Regular Saver 
account with First Direct, it requires him to open it in one of the ways set out in the current 
terms and conditions.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied First Direct correctly informed Mr A that its 
terms and conditions didnt permit the account to be opened by telephoning it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc trading 
as First Direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman