DRN-3976749
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Motor Depot Limited (MDL), trading as carsupermarket.finance, 
charged him too much for a car purchase in November 2021. As a result, when Mr L wanted 
to exchange the car a year later, the value of the car was significantly less than the amount 
he still had outstanding on the personal loan hed taken to purchase the car.
What happened
Mr L bought a second-hand car from MDL in November 2021. The price of the car at that 
time was approximately £16,000, and Mr L took a personal loan to finance the purchase.
A year later, Mr L wanted to change to a different car but discovered that the value of his car 
had fallen to approximately £8,000. This meant that the sale value of the car was 
considerably less than the amount Mr L had left to pay on the personal loan hed taken to 
finance the car purchase. This meant that if Mr L did change cars, hed have to incur a 
significant loss. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
MDL responded to Mr L and explained that they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly 
regarding the sale of the car or the later valuation and so didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.    
Mr L wasnt satisfied with MDLs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint but didnt feel that MDL had acted unfairly. 
Mr L remained unhappy, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that MDL have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr L feels that the amount MDL charged him for the car in 2021 was excessive. But its for a 
vendor to set the price of an item they wish to sell, and for a buyer to then make a decision 
to either purchase or not purchase that item based on whether they feel the set price is fair 
and reasonable or not. As such, it was at Mr Ls discretion as to whether to purchase the car 
from MDL for approximately £16,000 in November 2021. And given that Mr L did elect to 
purchase the car at that price, Im satisfied that  at that time  Mr L must have felt that the 
purchase price was fair. 
Mr L is also unhappy that, one year after buying the car, MDL offered to re-buy the car from 
him for approximately £8,000, meaning that the value of the car had effectively halved in the 
twelve months that Mr L had owned the car. 
Again, its for MDL to decide what amount theyve willing to pay for a car offered to them, 
and theres no obligation on MDL to offer a re-purchase price that Mr L finds acceptable. It 
also must be noted that the value of second-hand cars naturally depreciates  especially in 
the first few years and when the total mileage of the car increases significantly, as was the 
case in this instance (43,752 at purchase, 54,146 a year later) and that changes in the 
overall nature of the second-hand car market can also affect the perceived value of a car. 
Additionally, it would be expected that MDL, like all car vendors, would seek to profit from 
the sale and repurchase of the car and as such may include a margin amount in the sale and 
purchase prices they offer. 
This isnt to say that I cant appreciate Mr Ls dissatisfaction that the value of his car has 
depreciated to such an extent. But it is to say that why I feel the extent of the devaluation 
that Mr L has experienced here is unfortunate, I dont feel that its unfair. And this is 
because, ultimately, having considered all the information and evidence here, I dont feel that 
MDL have acted unfairly in how they priced the car at the point of sale or in how much they 
offered to re-purchase the car from Mr L a year later.
Finally, its notable that the loan Mr L took to purchase the car was a personal loan and 
wasnt one which was linked to the price of the car. Mr L has claimed that he never signed 
any such loan documents. But MDL have provided copies of the loan documents which 
include Mr Ls signature, and as such Im satisfied that Mr L did most likely sign and accept 
the personal loan to enable him to purchase the car. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing MDL to take any action. I hope Mr L will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman