DRN-3820232
The complaint
Mr L has complained about One Broker (Norwich) Ltd. He isnt happy that it asked him to get 
a chimney sweep survey and to use its suggested supplier when he took out his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out his home insurance through One Broker. Initially it was thought his log burner 
was installed in 2020 but subsequently it was established that it was actually installed in 
2014. This meant a chimney flue survey was required in order to be fully insured under the 
policy. But Mr L didnt think it was fair he wasnt able to source his own survey at a cheaper 
price. So he complained to One Broker and then this Service about this.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L, but she didnt uphold his complaint. She thought 
that One Broker hadnt acted unreasonably in looking to appoint the insurers approved 
chimney sweep survey provider as a condition of providing insurance cover. 
As Mr L didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand Mr Ls clear frustration here as he thought he could get the 
survey done cheaper I dont think One Broker acted unreasonably. Ill explain why. 
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
I know Mr L wanted to use his own surveyor to provide a report on his chimney and I accept 
he may have been able to get this for less. But it was his insurer that approved the individual 
chimney sweep survey company involved, not One Broker. And, importantly, Mr L was free 
to take out his insurance policy elsewhere if he wished. So, he wasnt obliged to continue 
with this policy, and it is possible that another provider may not have required this. But this 
particular insurer didnt want to provide cover without this in place and I cant interfere with 
its commercial decisions or suggest what risks it should or shouldnt be prepared to take on.
Given this, and the fact that Mr L was treated the same as any other consumer in his 
position I cant say he was treated unfairly here. The insurer required a CCTV chimney flue 
survey carried out by its approved supplier. And One Broker simply facilitated this and made 
it clear to Mr L that he was free to take his business elsewhere if he wished, so I think it 
acted fairly here. 
Finally, I can see Mr L raised a number of other issues including around advice given about 
the amount of times it was necessary to have his chimney swept and some general advice 
around whether he could use the burner before the survey. One Broker arent responsible for 
the professional advice given by the surveyor and I wouldnt expect it to pass comment in 
relation to specific issues in relation to the log burner. But fortunately, there wasnt any 
impact in relation to any advice given by One Broker in any event so Im not going to 
comment any further on this. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman