DRN-3784001
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) werent allocating his 
payments properly.
What happened
Mr O had a credit card  from NatWest. The limit was £12,500. In July 2021, Mr O took a 
balance transfer of £7,000 at 0% until 1 August 2022. In March 2022, the balance transfer 
balance had reduced to £3,837.68. NatWest then agreed to add to this by £1,549.95  with 
that amount interest free until 1 April 2023. Mr O took out a number of instalment plans 
throughout the period between September 2021 and June 2022  the time of his complaint 
to NatWest.
Mr O complained that NatWest werent allocating his payments to the credit card correctly 
and were repaying his balance transfer amount rather than the interest-bearing balances. So 
that meant he was paying interest unnecessarily. He said NatWest had admitted their 
systems were wrong as theyd agreed to refund the some amounts of interest and adjusted 
his balance transfer amount in March 2022. Because of what had happened, he said he was 
paying too much interest and was suffering from sleepless nights and stress.
NatWest said they applied the credits correctly and in line with the cards terms and 
conditions. These payments to the account were in the order of : the contractual minimum; 
then instalment plan fees; then monthly instalment plan repayments; then sums due on the 
last statement, with the highest interest rate first; then instalment plan balances; and finally 
any other balances remaining with the highest interest rate balance first. 
NatWest provided a schedule of Mr Os account between February 2022 and June 2022 
which they said showed how payments had been allocated in line with this. In some of the 
months in question, the balance transfer balance was reduced because of the surplus 
money paid in after allocation to other balances. NatWest said theyd also looked at Mr Os 
account between August 2021 and November 2021 and the allocations also looked correct 
for that period. 
NatWest said interest had been charged in some months because the whole balance on Mr 
Os statement hadnt been paid off. They had repriced Mr Os balance transfer in February 
2022 when he called as he had intended to pay the remaining purchases balance and not 
affect the balance transfer amount. No balance transfer fee was applied for that. NatWest 
refunded some amounts of interest (£8.57 and £16.05) in other months as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said he couldnt find any evidence that 
NatWest were allocating payments wrongly. He didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service doesnt undertake an audit or checking function, 
and therefore I havent done that. But  I have looked at Mr Os complaint, and his 
statements from September 2021 through to June 2022.
I also checked NatWests schedule (which covered the period from February 2022 to June 
2022) against Mr Os statements. And I can see that the payments were allocated in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. These say: payments are allocated to your credit 
card account in the following order:
o to pay your contractual minimum payment.
o to pay any Instalment Plan fees.
o to pay any monthly Instalment Plan repayments (if you have more than one plan well first 
pay off the one which ends soonest),
o to reduce sums shown on your most recent monthly statement (excluding Instalment 
Plans), according to their interest rates, with the highest rate paid first,
o to reduce the remainder of the outstanding balance(s) on any Instalment Plan(s) on the 
account.
o finally, if any payment exceeds your most recent monthly statement balance, the excess 
will then be applied to reduce sums charged to your account but not yet shown on any 
monthly statement. This is also done according to their interest rates, with the highest 
interest rate paid first.
I noted also that this schedule is shown on the back of Mr Os statements  so its 
reasonable to say here that he shouldve been aware of them.
Therefore, I cant see that NatWest have made an error here. They did refund two amounts 
of interest after Mr O called them  but these were made as a gesture of goodwill, rather 
than an admittance that the interest had been wrongly charged.
NatWest did increase Mr Os balance transfer balance by £1,549.95 (without a fee) in March 
2022. NatWest explained that this was because Mr O said he intended to have the excess 
payments for that month allocated to pay off the further purchases balance (rather than it 
being allocated to the balance transfer)  so again, I consider that to be a gesture of goodwill 
rather than an error by NatWest.
Where Mr O had paid interest, I can see that this was because he didnt pay off the whole 
amount of the balance due on his account. I can see that this amounted to a total of £31.74 
between October 2021 and June 2022. And for the previous 12 months, he was charged 
£16.23. Looking at Mr Os statements, these were fairly charged.
It seems to me that NatWest have dealt with Mr Os complaint fairly and reasonably, and 
therefore, I wont be asking the firm to do anymore here. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman