DRN-4324568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Europ Assistance S.A. declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policies.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, on 17 October 2020, Mr and Mrs P each took out a single trip 
travel insurance policy underwritten by Europ Assistance. On the same date, Mrs Ps 
brother-in-law booked flights for a trip with departure and return flights of                        
20 October 2022 and 30 October 2022 respectively.
I understand that on 19 October 2020, Mr and Mrs P received their Covid-19 test results 
following a test theyd arranged privately for the purposes of travel. Mrs Ps result was 
positive, so she and Mr P couldnt travel.     
On 23 October 2020, Mrs P took a second Covid-19 test via her GP and was 
subsequently informed that the result was negative. 
In November 2020, Mr and Mrs P made a claim against their policies. Europ Assistance 
declined their claim. It relied on an exclusion in the policy, which I set out below. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt think that was fair and pursued their complaint. They say that    
Europ Assistance ignored their claim in relation to their flight costs. Mr and Mrs P want a 
refund from the airline and Europ Assistance. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that            
Europ Assistance had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
The investigator said that Europ Assistance set out the exclusion clearly. She said that it 
wasnt uncommon to receive a negative Covid-19 test result days after a positive result.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs P said that she had no symptoms of 
Covid-19 and the second Covid-19 test result which was negative proves that she didnt 
have Covid-19. She said that they paid privately for the first Covid-19 test from an 
overseas clinic and that she doubts the validity of the positive result. 
The investigator considered what Mrs P said but didnt change her view. Mr and Mrs P 
asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy covers certain 
unrecoverable costs following cancellation of a trip caused by one of the insured events.   
Theres a general exclusion in the policy which says as follows:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS WHICH APPLY TO ALL SECTIONS OF THE INSURANCE
This insurance does not cover:
[]
4. Any claims directly or indirectly caused by, occasioned by, resulting from or in connection 
with any of the following regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or 
in any other sequence to the claim:
[]
n. epidemics or infectious diseases:
infectious diseases caused by a virus belonging to the coronavirus family such as 
SARS and coronavirus CODIV-19 (sic)
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) is a summary of cover and says as 
follows:
! Are there any restrictions on cover?
General restrictions
[]
! Infectious diseases caused by a virus belonging to the coronavirus family such as SARS 
and coronavirus COVID 19; []
 
has Europ Assistance acted unfairly or unreasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Europ Assistance has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have 
considerable sympathy for Mr and Mrs P. They lost out on a trip through no fault of their 
own. Whilst I dont think that Europ Assistance treated them unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining their claims, theres been poor service in dealing with their claims. I say that 
because:   
As the investigator explained, insurance policies arent designed to cover every 
eventuality or situation. An insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set 
these out in the terms and conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the 
consumer to show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within 
the policy. If the event is covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an 
exclusion set out in the policy the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that 
exclusion applies.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover for irrecoverable cancellation costs following 
cancellation as a result of certain, specified events. Mr and Mrs P cancelled their 
trip as they were unable to fly following Mrs Ps positive test result for Covid-19. 
Thats not an insured event under the policy. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about that, I think that Europ Assistance 
would be entitled to rely on the exclusion Ive set out above and wouldnt have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. Mr and Mrs Ps claim was caused by 
Mrs Ps positive Covid-19 test result. Thats something that Europ Assistance 
excluded in the policy. It drew Mr and Mrs Ps attention to that exclusion in the 
IPID.  Mr and Mrs P doubt the validity of Mrs Ps first Covid-19 test result. It is, of course, 
possible to have a false positive result. Its also possible to subsequently test 
negative for Covid-19 a few days after a positive test result. I note what                
Mr and Mrs P say, but the validity or otherwise of the first test result doesnt alter 
the outcome here. Thats because it remains the case that the reason                   
Mr and Mrs P cancelled their trip isnt covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P complain about Europ Assistance delay in dealing with their claim. 
Based on what Ive seen, they made claims against their policies in          
November 2020. Europ Assistance didnt provide its response to the claims until its 
final response in April 2023. Thats considerable delay. Ive put this to             
Europ Assistance and it agrees that it provided poor service. 
I think that Europ Assistances poor service caused Mr and Mrs P distress and 
inconvenience. Whilst the delay in dealing with the claim doesnt alter the outcome, 
I think that Mr and Mrs P were left in an uncertain position. I think that fair 
compensation for that is £100. In reaching that view Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of Mr and Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience caused 
by the poor service in this case. Europ Assistance has now agreed to pay 
compensation of £100 in relation to Mr and Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Europ Assistance should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation of 
£100 in relation to their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Europ Assistance S.A. should now take the 
steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman