DRN-3580425
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Estate Capital Financial Management Limited 
(Estate) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 
31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying 
conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored 
by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the option to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 December 2017 
(and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr H approached Estate in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was also concerned about the situation with his employer and the pension scheme. Hed 
received a transfer value in September 2017. 
In October 2017 Estate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives. I understand this was at a meeting that took place on 
30 October 2017. Mr H signed the fact find on 28 November 2017, the date he was given 
advice. This showed that:
He was aged 40 and married with two children. 
He was employed by Tata Steel and earning £41,000 a year. 
Mr and Mrs H owned their own property which was subject to a mortgage. This had 
around ten years left to run.  
Mr and Mrs H had around £4,000 in cash, but no other savings and investments. 
In respect of his pension arrangements Mr H had deferred benefits in the BSPS scheme. He 
also had another deferred DB scheme entitlement. It was recorded this other scheme would 
provide a pension of around £6,500 each year at age 60. He had recently joined his 
employers defined contribution scheme he and his employer together were contributing 16% 
of his salary into this each month.  
Estate also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk. It said Mr H was 
inexperienced and had a cautious to balanced attitude to risk. But it also said that he had a 
medium to high capacity for loss due to his financial situation. And it was recorded that for 
the pension transfer his attitude to risk was balanced as he would like to speculate with this 
fund. He could withstand moderate losses with his DB scheme transfer funds. 
On 28 November 2017, Estate advised Mr H to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds. The suitability report, and the other point of sale documentation, said 
the reasons for this recommendation were that:
He wanted to retire around age 60. 
He wanted to have some flexibility about his retirement and pension arrangements, 
and he wanted to take his benefits without penalty.  
Death benefits were important to him, that said, he didnt envisage taking a lump sum 
from his pension arrangements. 
He was concerned with the situation with his employer and the BSPS, because of 
this he wanted control over his pension.
The transfer value of just over £171,630 was paid to the new SIPP in December 2017.
Mr H complained in 2022 to Estate about the suitability of the transfer advice.
Estate didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said:
The BSPS2 wasnt fully agreed at the time of advice and so it was impossible to 
properly advise him about this option. 
It wasnt certain that Mr H would be able to transfer his benefits later on, either at all 
or without a reduction, and this was important to him. 
The advice left him with a reasonable and achievable option to be comfortable in 
retirement and he would gain some flexibility. 
When compared to the PPF the critical yields and discount rates indicated that Mr H 
would not be disadvantaged financially. A later comparison with the BSPS2 also 
showed that the returns needed were not unreasonable
He also benefitted from the better death benefits that a transfer would provide his 
family. 
In summary it said that it was satisfied, based on the figures provided, that he had a 
reasonable opportunity to provide equal benefits from the DB scheme. He didnt want a 
guaranteed income and the DB scheme was unlikely to have met his income target
Whilst the dependents benefits were good in the DB scheme he was attracted to the lump 
sum benefits available from the SIPP. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Estate should pay compensation. He said that it was considered best 
advice that a consumer doesnt transfer their DB scheme benefits. And there was no 
concrete need from Mr H that would outweigh this. There was very limited scope for the 
transfer to benefit Mr H and it wasnt clear that he wanted to take the risk of the funds he 
invested in. He thought Mr H should have been advised to join the BSPS2
Estate disagreed, saying:
Mr H only had the option to move to the PPF or transfer out, the BSPS2 was not 
started yet and so it couldnt have advised Mr H to join it. So, redress should not be 
based on the BSPS2. The death benefits were very important to Mr H and compared to the PPF the SIPP 
improved these. 
If Mr H joined the PPF he would be unable to transfer, and so he would lose the 
flexibility that he wanted. 
Given his other DB scheme and the state pension and the DC scheme he could 
afford to speculate with this pension
This service has relied to too great an extent on critical yields and the discount rate. 
There were compelling reasons for the transfer due to the situation with Mr Hs 
employer and the BSPS scheme
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Estate's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Estate 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability Estate carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
However, this was based on his existing scheme benefits and Mr H didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to 
the PPF. 
Estate has argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only comparison it could 
provide was with the benefits available to Mr H through the PPF. But I think Estate 
overestimated the chance of this not happening; Mr H had received his Time to Choose 
pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had been provided; the 
BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been 
lower. Of course, its possible this may not have gone ahead, but I still think the benefits 
available to Mr H through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored in with this advice so that he 
was able to make an informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr H was 40 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 60, or later if this wasnt a 
viable option. The critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at age 65 was 6.37% if he 
took a full pension and 5.2% if he took tax free cash and a reduced pension. The same 
calculations for his age 60 were 7.84% for a full pension and 6.43% if he took tax free cash. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
4.63% per year if Mr H took a full pension and 4.35% per year if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. Again at age 60, the same figures 5.41% and 5.13%. 
But as Ive said above, Mr H remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option. So, the 
critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual 
increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But, I still 
think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at 
age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.4% to his age 60 and 4.6% to age 65 years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the 
regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement.
Estate clearly went into some detail determining Mr Hs tolerance to risk. I can accept that on 
the one hand it is documented that he was prepared to take some risk with this part of his 
pension. But other parts of the point of sale documentation contradict this. Mr H said that the 
security of this part of this pension was important to him, and he wanted the income from it 
to be protected. He also said that he didnt want the income from it to decrease as he may 
struggle financially if this happened. That said, and for the avoidance of doubt, I consider that Mr H was likely to be somewhere 
around a balanced risk investor, but perhaps on the lower end of what is a fairly broad 
category. This is because he had around 20 years before he expected to retire, and it would 
be reasonable for him to take some risk over this longer period. But he doesnt seem to have 
been an experienced investor so this risk would be balanced or medium at most. 
But there would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to them through his 
DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, given the lowest critical yield was over 5%, I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of 
a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme moved to the 
PPF.
And this was recognised in the suitability letter which said the critical yield at age 60 in 
particular would normally be considered as a high critical yield to consider transferring 
benefits and is unlikely to be a consistently attainable from a balanced investment strategy.
Estate has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr H wouldve been able to meet 
their needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but Estates models show 
that, for example, if the fund grew at a medium rate of return, and provided similar benefits to 
the BSPS scheme, then the fund could run out between Mr Hs ages 93 to 95. So, if there 
was a period of poor returns or Mr H lived a long life, his fund was at risk of running out 
before he died.
And Estate also provided an estimate of the fund values he would need to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up in the DB scheme. At ages 60 and 65 this was between around 
£500,000 and £700,000 (respectively). These were far more than the transfer value, and 
what the transfer could reasonably be assumed to grow to. They give a revealing estimate 
insight into the value of the benefits Mr H gave up when he transferred out to a personal 
pension plan.
Also, as Estate will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
Estate says that it is unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in 
tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer 
to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Hs attitude to risk, which leads me to believe 
hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out of the DB scheme.
Estate also says that the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is based on the 
growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same basis 
as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. Estate says Mr H didnt want an annuity, it said 
he wanted to take his benefits flexibly. But the regulator required Estate to consider the rate 
of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, it needed to provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont think Mr H could realistically say with any certainty 
whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to 
retire for at least another 20 years. Its entirely possible that Mr H would want at least some 
guaranteed income in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB 
scheme).
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Estate 
has said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems the main reason that Estate recommended this transfer was for the flexibility and 
control it offered Mr H. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr H needed to transfer 
his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr H could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr H had to take those benefits 
at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr H had any concrete need to take the tax 
free cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my 
mind this seems more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective. 
Mr H has confirmed that he didnt really want a lump sum as his only significant debt was 
their mortgage and this was due to be repaid well before his retirement. 
Furthermore, Estates advice seems to have not fully considered the retirement funds that 
Mr H would be building up over the next 20 years, through his employers DC scheme. The 
fact-find says Mr H was contributing 16% of his income per month. His income was recorded 
as being around £41,000 per year. And even without taking investment growth into account, 
the DC fund would be worth in the region of £131,000 in 20 years time. 
This means that at age 65, if Mr H opted into the BSPS2, he could take a pension of around 
£12,500 per year. Given that there wasnt any known need for the tax free cash (Mr Hs 
mortgage and loan would be repaid by this point) I think Mr H couldve met his income needs 
until his state pension of around £8,500 became payable at age 68. I think any shortfall 
couldve been met by Mr Hs other DB scheme which would have provided an income from 
age 60 of £6,500 a year. His wife would also have some provision. And Mr H could access a 
significant amount of cash from the DC scheme. He would have likely had a significant 
pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or take additional 
lump sums. So, I dont think Mr H would have had to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by 
opting into the BSPS2.
I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. Although I think the 
communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme 
operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr H had opted into the BSPS2 
and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 Mr H 
wouldve been entitled to a pension of around £11,250 per year. This was lower than the 
pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I dont think it was substantially lower such 
that it shouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr H 
wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his state pension became payable, as well as 
his wifes pension to supplement their household income. So, I still think Mr H couldve met 
his needs in retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to 
the PPF.Overall, Im satisfied Mr H could have met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF at age 65. So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to 
transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
Estate now says that one of the main reasons that Mr H transferred was because of the 
increased death benefits that the transfer to the SIPP may have provided. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Estate explored to what extent 
Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and had children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided by the 
DB scheme wouldve been useful to them if Mr H predeceased them. I dont think Estate 
made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a 
large sum left particularly if Mr H lived a long life.  In any event, Estate should not have 
encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Estate shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
And, in any event Mr H was building up a fund that could be passed to his dependents on his 
death. And he had significant life cover benefits with his current scheme. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr H, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
So its quite possible that Mr H was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Estates obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 into account and I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Hs concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Estate shouldve 
reassured Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr H through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income 
was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Estate recommending Mr H transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Suitability of investments
Estate recommended that Mr H invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr H, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr H should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But Estate wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring to a 
SIPP Mr H was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at age 65. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr H had over 20 years before he 
expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr H wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr H was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr 
H chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Estate shouldve advised Mr H to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Estate says that regardless of the advice given, Mr H made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. And it believes Mr H wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that Estate disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr H and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr H to 
transfer out, and I think Mr H relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Estates advice. I say this because Mr H was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for a large proportion of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Estate had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs fear about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if Estate had 
explained Mr H was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he 
transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think Estate should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Estate also pay Mr H £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr H has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for 
the unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Estate must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Estate should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr H has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Estate should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Estates offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Estate may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from his pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience this advice caused him. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Estate Capital 
Financial Management Limited to pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Estate Capital Financial Management Limited pays Mr H the balance. 
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Estate Capital Financial 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman