DRN-1298277
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Alphabet (GB) Ltd 
ended.
What happened
Mr F was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Alphabet. At the end 
of the agreement the car was inspected. The inspector found damage to both front wheels 
and a scratch on the bumper moulding. The inspector estimated the costs of repair at £66 for 
each wheel and £34.20 for the bumper moulding.
Alphabet reviewed the inspection report and asked Mr F to pay charges for the damage. Mr 
F disputed the charges. He said the cost of repairing the bumper had increased from the 
estimated cost. He also said hed returned the car with 7000 miles on the odometer which 
was significantly less than the total contractual mileage allowance of 18,000. Mr F said that 
the increase in the value of the car as a result of returning it under mileage exceeded the 
cost of the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said the inspection report showed that the 
charges were an estimate and that Alphabet had the right to review whether the estimate 
reflected the actual cost of the damage. The investigator also said there was no facility under 
the agreement to offset damage charges against lower mileage.
Mr F didnt agree. He said the charge for repairing the bumper was four times the estimated 
cost and he didnt see how the cost could differ so much.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr F must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to both front wheels and to the 
bumper. The damage is clearly visible, and Im satisfied that it falls outside of fair wear and 
tear in accordance with the guidelines. 
Mr F is unhappy about being asked to pay more than the costs which were estimated by the 
inspector. I appreciate that the costs of repairing the bumper are less on the inspection 
report. However, the inspection report clearly states that all prices shown are an estimate 
and subject to variation. So I dont think Alphabet acted unfairly in reviewing the damage and 
the costs of repair. I appreciate Mr Fs disappointment and frustration that the cost of 
repairing the bumper increased. Alphabet has said that the inspector selected the incorrect 
method for the damage when he entered the details on his iPad, which meant that the 
estimated charge was incorrect. Ive no reason to doubt this explanation.
On balance Im unable to say that the damage charges have been unfairly applied.
Ive considered the point which Mr F has made about mileage. However, theres nothing to 
show that the value of the car as a result of the lower mileage was significantly different to 
the value it would have been had the contractual mileage been covered. Further, there isnt 
anything in the terms and conditions of the agreement which allows for a reduction or 
removal of damage charges if the car is returned under mileage. So Im unable to ask 
Alphabet to offset or remove the damage charges.
Taking everything into account, I think the damage charges have been applied fairly and in 
wont be asking Alphabet to remove them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman