DRN-3758478
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he says he lost 
as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr P employed a business, which Ill call G, for services related to providing a visa for his 
brother to move to Europe. 
He entered into an agreement with G, with the total cost of the services being £8,000 
excluding VAT and any fees to be paid to third parties. He paid an initial £2,499 via faster 
payment. Subsequently G said that it wasnt able to progress the visa application because of 
the global pandemic. Following this, a further £1,833 debited Mr Ps account by way of a 
card payment.
Mr P contacted G to complain. It said hed given authority for it to take further payments 
under the terms of the agreement. Mr P appears to have believed that further payments 
would only be taken if the visa application was actually progressing.
Mr P says G demanded more money in order to secure the visa, but he refused. 
Subsequently he reported the matter as a scam to his bank. Halifax said that the matter was 
a civil dispute between Mr P and G, so it didnt have any obligation to refund him.
Our Investigator agreed with Halifax. They pointed to the fact that G was operating freely 
and regulated by the relevant body. The Investigator also found that the card payment had 
been taken with Mr Ps authority. That meant that Halifax didnt have any obligation to refund 
him.
Mr P, through his representatives, didnt agree. He argued that G had very bad reviews and 
a well-known review website was taking action against it for soliciting fake reviews. As no 
agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr P is responsible 
for payments hes made himself or given authority for. Halifax is also a signatory to the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), which requires 
firms to reimburse victims of authorised push payment scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. In addition, it has longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character transactions to try and protect its customers from financial harm from 
fraud, among other things. But the CRM only applies to scams (not civil disputes), it 
excludes card payments and Halifax has no obligation to protect its customers from bad 
bargains.
Im satisfied that both payments were authorised. Theres no dispute that Mr P made the 
£2,499 payment himself and the contract he electronically signed gave G permission to take 
future payments from his card. Though Mr P may not have been expecting the £1,833 
payment to debit his account, Ive seen nothing to show that he withdrew his authority for it. 
It also follows that an attempt to challenge the debit card payment through the chargeback 
scheme would have likely failed for the same reason: it was taken in line with the authority 
given in the agreement. 
I also havent seen sufficient evidence that G was operating as a scam. To reach that 
conclusion, Id have to be satisfied that G set out to deceive Mr P and had no intention of 
providing genuine services.
The contract Mr P signed states that refunds arent provided and its evident that Mr P had 
paid less than the total amount due under the contract at the point he decided not to 
continue with the application, so I dont find Gs requests for more money, or refusal to return 
what had already been paid, particularly surprising or indicative of any nefarious intent.
  
G is an active company and appears to be operating openly from its registered address. It is 
also regulated by the relevant body. Complaints about it can be referred to that body, but its 
not clear Mr P has done this or, if he has, what the conclusion of any complaint was. Nor is 
there any indication that action is being taken by the police against G.
Mr Ps representatives argue that a string of poor reviews and the fact a well-known review 
website is taking action against G for soliciting fake reviews demonstrates it was operating 
fraudulently. I dont agree. While this might be evidence of poor customer experience and 
sharp business practice, it doesnt demonstrate that G is a fraudulent enterprise.  
Overall, Mr P hasnt provided sufficient evidence that his dispute with G constitutes a scam 
and Im satisfied it is civil in nature. That means that, although I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed to have paid a significant sum of money and received nothing in return, Ive 
found no reason for Halifax to be responsible for his loss.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman