DRN-2802289
The complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Limited irresponsibly approved a hire purchase agreement 
for a car that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr B acquired a new car from a dealership via a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. The agreement was for four years and the cash price of the car was 
around £44,000 and Mr B paid a deposit of £2,125. Mr B was required to make 48 monthly 
payments of about £565 and an optional final payment of around £22,500 if he wanted to 
keep the car when the agreement ended.
Mr B says that at the time he took out this agreement he was actually unemployed and had 
been since November 2018. He says that the plan was for his partner to pay for the car. Mr 
B also says that the supplying dealership knew he wasnt working and used the details of his 
previous employment to obtain the credit agreement.
Payments were made for the car until September 2019 when Mr Bs relationship with his 
partner broke down and she left the property theyd shared. In December 2019, Mr B 
contacted Black Horse and enquired about voluntary terminating the agreement but says he 
was unable to afford the cost to do so. It was then that Mr B told Black Horse he wasnt 
working.
Mr B complained to Black Horse that the hire purchase agreement was unaffordable and 
that he shouldnt have been approved for finance as he hadnt been working at the time. 
Black Horse didnt uphold his complaint. It said that before Mr B had entered into the hire 
purchase agreement, he had confirmed he was both working and that the repayments were 
affordable for him. 
Black Horse said that it had assessed the information Mr B had provided together with 
information received from Credit Reference Agencies and this had provided a credit score 
and Mr Bs application had been found to be within its lending criteria and the lending had 
been accepted. It disagreed it had acted incorrectly.
Mr B was unhappy at the response from Black Horse and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think 
Black Horse had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
was able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Our investigator said that to put things right Black Horse should cancel the agreement and 
take back the car. As Mr B had had use of the car, our investigator said that it was fair for Mr 
B to pay for that but he shouldnt pay any interest or charges as the agreement shouldnt 
have been provided to him Our investigator said it would be fair for Mr B to pay £400 per 
month for the period he had the car and so taking what had already been paid under the 
agreement there was an outstanding amount of £3,512.31 to be cleared by Mr B once it had 
been collected.
Our investigator also said that it would be fair for Black Horse to remove any adverse 
information about this account from Mr Bs credit file. But added that if Mr B then 
subsequently didnt keep to an agreed payment plan to clear the shortfall in the payments 
then this shortfall amount could be recorded on his credit file.
Mr B agreed with our investigators view however Black Horse disagreed. Black Horse said it 
had adhered to its obligations as a responsible lender by carrying out adequate affordability 
checks. It had carried out an indebtedness assessment (debt/income and industry standard 
indebtedness scores), looked at Mr Bs credit history and conducted an affordability 
assessment. The results from these checks was that Black Horse had found Mr B was a low 
risk for credit lending and had approved the agreement.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement then the complaint has been passed to 
me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law there are 
two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did Black Horse complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B wouldve 
been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Black Horse act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Looking at the first question, I agree with the view of our investigator that I dont think Black 
Horse carried out reasonable and proportionate checks despite its strong representations 
that it did, and I will explain why. 
Black Horse says the checks it carried out complied with the requirements of the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) set out in the FCAs handbook when assessing affordability. It 
says that lending to Mr B was an acceptable credit risk.  But CONC says that a credit 
provider, in order to responsibly lend, is required to carry out what is referred to as an 
affordability check and this check should be borrower focused. So both a credit risk 
assessment and an affordability assessment should be carried out. The purpose of the 
checks is to verify that Mr B could sustainably afford the borrowing when looking at his 
particular circumstances.
CONC also says that checks are to be reasonable and proportionate and whats considered 
to fit that test will depend on a number of factors such as the amount of credit; the total 
repayable and the size of the regular payments; the duration of the agreement, the cost of 
the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Here, the total amount payable was around £51,500 with monthly payments of £565 over a 
four-year term and an optional final payment of £22,500. As Mr Bs declared monthly income 
was £1,890 per month (as recorded by the dealership), the monthly payments equated to around 29% of Mr Bs stated monthly earnings. So, I think its reasonable to say this was a 
sizable and lengthy credit agreement for Mr B to enter into and due to that I think the 
affordability check needed to be thorough for it to satisfy the requirement set down in CONC. 
Black Horse says that Mr B declared his income as being £28,500 per year and that he had 
held that employment for a number of years. Mr B says he told the dealership he wasnt 
working, and it used his past employment details. I have seen that the dealership has now 
ceased trading so I cant ask about what was said between Mr B and the supplying dealer. 
However, I have seen that Mr B signed the agreement and, by doing so, was acknowledging 
that the details contained in it, including his being employed, were correct. But, even if Mr B 
had misled the dealership about his income, that doesnt mean Black Horse isnt still 
required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Here the borrowing was equivalent to about twice what Mr B had declared as his annual 
earnings so I think it would have been proportionate for Black Horse to have verified his 
income.
Ive seen that Black Horse says it verified Mr Bs income by undertaking a credit check and 
looking at his current accounts turnover and previous borrowing. But I dont think these 
checks were enough, they didnt verify Mr Bs earning. Had Black Horse asked for further 
information about Mr Bs salary, such as payslips then it would have discovered that he was 
no longer working. 
I also dont think Black Horse has properly gathered information about Mr Bs expenses. It 
says he didnt claim any rent or mortgage when information was taken about his outgoings, 
but I cant see what if any questions were asked about that. Black Horse says that Mr Bs 
monthly outgoings amounted to £411 though no breakdown of how that figure was reached 
has been given. Mr B has provided bank statements, but these are in joint names with his 
ex-partner, so it isnt clear which expenses are his or whether these are shared expenses, or 
some are those of his ex-partner. However, what is clear from these statements, is that after 
December 2018 Mr B didnt have a salary coming in.
I accept Mr Bs credit file didnt contain any adverse information and Black Horse says Mr B 
had a clean record and a good repayment history having eight active credit relationships 
listed at the time of the application. But I think more information outside of Mr Bs credit 
commitments was required when considering the proportion of his monthly income that 
would be committed to paying this agreement. Black Horse should have checked Mr B 
wasnt overcommitting when taking on this agreement.
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Black Horse completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay this agreement in a 
sustainable way. This means I now need to consider that if Black Horse had carried out 
those checks, would it have shown Mr B was able to repay this agreement in a sustainable 
way. I think the answer to this second question is no.
I cant be sure of the information and evidence Black Horse would have asked for or would 
have received if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, so Ive looked at 
what it would have been likely to have discovered. Here, I think it would have uncovered that 
Mr B wasnt working and had no income at the time of applying for the credit agreement for 
the car.
Im not clear what the arrangements were between Mr B and his ex-partner over financial 
matters. Mr B says that the expenses on the provided bank statements were all his and he 
was meeting these expenses by using money that had been transferred into his account in 
November and December 2018. Mr B has explained this was money that had been intended to be used for another purpose and which had been moved to another account before being 
moved to this account when that purpose fell through. 
Black Horse has queried Mr Bs monthly commitments as calculated by our investigator, but 
I dont think I need to resolve what was and wasnt an essential expenditure for Mr B. This is 
because at the time Mr B entered into the hire purchase agreement, he didnt have an 
income and so any repayment wouldnt have been affordable. So, I think in these 
circumstances its more likely than not that Black Horse would have declined Mr Bs credit 
application for the car.
The final question I have to consider is whether Black Horse did anything wrong. I havent 
seen any evidence that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
So, for the reasons given above Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
As the credit agreement shouldnt have been accepted by Black Horse then Im going to ask 
it to cancel the agreement with no fees or charges to be paid by Mr B. Black Horse is to 
collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
Mr B had been able to make use of the car since he acquired it in March 2019, and although 
I understand its mileage isnt very high being around 9,600, I think it would be fair for him to 
pay for that usage. However, as the agreement shouldnt have been accepted by Black 
Horse, I dont think its fair Mr B pays any element of interest or any charges arising from how 
he has managed that account.
Ive seen that Mr B has made some payments towards the car as well as paying a deposit 
when he entered into the hire purchase agreement. In total Mr B has paid Black Horse 
£6,087. 65. Our investigator calculated that for the period March 2019 until March 2021 (the 
date of their view) this equated to £253.65 per month. However, he said taking into account 
that this was a premium car, then that monthly payment wasnt sufficient to cover the usage 
and a monthly amount of £400 per month would be fair. This means Mr B should have paid a 
total of £9,600 for that period of use. This therefore leaves a shortfall of £3,512.31 that Mr B 
will have to clear when the car is returned.
I think the approach and calculations as to how much Mr B should fairly pay for the car while 
its been in his possession are reasonable, and I have seen Mr B agrees with the proposal 
put forward by our investigator. So, I cant see any reason why I would depart from that. 
Although I appreciate these calculations were done with the view the car would be collected 
shortly and the agreement ended a short time after the investigators view, I dont think its 
fair for me to now alter that shortfall amount because the complaint has come to me and the 
outcome of Mr Bs decision has been delayed. I still think in the circumstances that Mr B 
should repay the amount of £3,512.31 to Black Horse for his use of the car.
Finally, I think it would be fair that any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file for 
this account should be removed by Black Horse. However, if Mr B doesnt keep to agreed 
payments for the shortfall amount then Black Horse can record this shortfall amount on his 
credit file.   
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint and I am asking Black Horse to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with no fees or charges to be paid by Mr B.Collect the car at no cost to Mr B.
Agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the shortfall £3,512.31 which 
allows him to repay over a reasonable period of time. Black Horse should take into 
account Mr Bs overall financial situation when agreeing any repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mr Bs credit file.
If Mr B doesnt keep to an agreed payment plan for the shortfall amount than Black 
Horse can record the shortfall debt on his credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman