DRN-2825748
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr S, a director or P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf. P is represented in this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of P.
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ps claim. They said the core business interruption section of the policy 
and some of the extensions only provided cover in the event of damage and Covid-19 hadnt 
caused damage. They added that while the policy provides cover for some specified 
illnesses, Covid-19 isnt one of the illnesses covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, P brought its complaint to our service. It didnt think it was 
acceptable for the policy not to provide cover when covid-19 wasnt known about when the 
policy was written. 
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Ps claim. 
P accepted there wasnt cover under any sections of the policy that required damage but still 
thought that the extension for specified illness should provide cover as the policy covered 
other communicable diseases. P referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case and also said as Plague was listed in the 
policy, this should also include Covid-19. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ps business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ps claim.
As P has accepted there isnt cover under the sections of the policy requiring damage I dont 
intend to comment on those further and will instead focus on the extension for specified 
illness. 
The extension for specified illness covers loss as a direct result of a specified illness at Ps 
premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. The policy says:
Specified Illness shall mean illness sustained by any person resulting from:
a food or drink poisoning, or
b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, 
Diphtheria, Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal 
Infection, Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, 
Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral 
Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent 
local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of illnesses. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ps policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new illnesses.
Ive thought about Ps point that Plague should cover Covid-19 but I dont think it does. In 
the Governments updated list of notifiable diseases Covid-19 and Plague are listed 
separately, indicating that they are different illnesses. The medical definition of Plague says 
that it is a specific disease caused by bacteria, whereas Covid-19 is a virus. Moreover, if the 
intention of the policy was for Plague to cover a pandemic then the policy wouldnt need to 
include many of the other illnesses on the list, meaning the list would be redundant. 
Therefore, even if someone at, or within 25 miles of, Ps business premises had Covid-19, I 
dont think this extension provides cover for its claim.
P has referred to extracts from the Supreme Court judgment. However, I dont think 
these are relevant in this case because Ps policy only provides cover for list of 
specified illnesses and Covid-19 isnt one of them. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome P was hoping for, given the impact on its business. 
However, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require 
Allianz to pay Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman