DRN-2947107
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained about the customer service provided by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) under their home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T had a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which included an annual service 
for their boiler. Mr T and Mrs T didnt receive a reminder from British Gas that the annual 
service was due. Mr T also tried to contact British Gas by phone to book the service, but had 
problems getting through.
Mr T and Mrs T complained to British Gas. When British Gas replied, it accepted there had 
been a range of issues with booking the annual service. It explained that there was a known 
fault with its system that sent the automated annual service letters to customers. It said Mr T 
and Mrs T should now receive the reminders. British Gas said there were issues with using 
the automated booking system as Mr T and Mrs T didnt want British Gas to keep a record of 
their phone number. 
British Gas also said Mr T and Mrs Ts boiler hadnt been serviced for 16 months and it 
accepted that their preference was for this to happen every 12 months. However, annual 
services could be more than 12 months apart, which was in line with its terms and 
conditions. British Gas offered a £50 gesture of goodwill because of its failure to send the 
correct correspondence for annual service reminders.
Mr T and Mrs T also booked a boiler service, which was then rescheduled. On the day of the 
rescheduled boiler annual service, British Gas also phoned to cancel the appointment. 
However, a British Gas engineer did then visit that day to carry out the service. But, while he 
was there, another British Gas engineer phoned to say that he was on his way to carry out 
the service. The first British Gas engineer told the second one, he didnt need to visit. Later 
the same day another British Gas engineer arrived at Mr T and Mrs Ts home to service the 
boiler, despite it having been carried out earlier that day.
Mr T and Mrs T contacted this service. Our investigator said there were a number of issues 
with British Gas customer service, which it had accepted. He said £100 compensation more 
fairly reflected the trouble and upset caused to Mr T and Mrs T.
Mr T and Mrs T had also complained to British Gas about the issues with the rescheduled 
annual service, which British Gas replied to while the first complaint was with this service. 
British Gas accepted there had been issues with the annual service, including multiple 
engineers getting in touch. It offered £30 compensation
British Gas accepted the investigators findings. It paid a total of £130 compensation. Mr T 
and Mrs T asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mr T and Mrs T were concerned that British Gas didnt carry out all of the annual services it 
should have. This was because the services were sometimes more than 12 months apart. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said:
annual service
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
And
period of agreement
- the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on
your statement.
And:
Your annual service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit.
So, the policy explained that an annual service will take place during each period of 
agreement and might take place more than 12 months after the previous one. Ive looked at 
whether there was an annual service during each agreement period. Based on what Ive 
seen, an annual service did take place during each period of agreement, even where this 
was longer than 12 months after the previous service.
Im aware Mr T and Mrs T were also concerned that they could have suffered a gas leak 
because of the gap between annual services. However, I havent seen anything to suggest 
this happened and Im unable to deal with hypothetical situations. So, based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that British Gas carried out the annual services in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, even where these were more than 12 months apart. As a result, I 
dont currently intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Ive also looked at the issues with Mr T and Mrs T receiving reminders for their annual 
service. British Gas accepted there were problems because of a fault with the system that 
produced reminder letters and that this meant they hadnt received reminders. The policy 
terms and conditions said that British Gas would normally send annual service reminders, so 
I currently intend to uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr T and Mrs T also said it was difficult to use the automated booking system. This seemed 
to be because Mr T and Mrs T didnt want British Gas to have their phone number in their 
records because they kept receiving phone calls about other products. British Gas has said 
its automated phone booking system generally uses the phone number registered on the 
account to generate the details for the visit. Im not able to tell British Gas how its automated 
phone booking system should operate or tell it to make changes to it. So, if Mr T and Mrs T 
dont want British Gas to register their phone number on the account to avoid being 
contacted about other issues, I dont think it would be fair for me to uphold this part of the 
complaint, as the booking system seems to be based on using a customers phone number.
Im aware that British Gas did contact Mr T and Mrs T by phone though, so Mr T and Mrs T 
have queried how it was able to do this if it didnt have their phone number. I asked British 
Gas about this and it explained that it doesnt hold Mr T and Mrs Ts records on the account. 
It said that an engineer found their phone number in the work history, which contained the 
phone number from historic visits. If Mr T and Mrs T are unhappy about this, they would 
need to raise this as a new complaint with British Gas in the first instance so that it is able to 
try and address their concerns.Mr T and Mrs T also complained that British Gas tried to cancel the annual service visit on 
the day of the rescheduled appointment and then arranged for three engineers to visit. My 
understanding is that the annual service was carried out that day. However, I can see that 
what happened would have caused Mr T and Mrs T concern and inconvenience, which I will 
consider as part of compensation.
So, Ive thought about compensation based on the full circumstances of Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint. Im aware that they werent sent annual service reminders due to a system issue 
and they would also have been inconvenienced by three engineers visits being scheduled 
for the same day. I understand that Mr Ts personal circumstances also made it more difficult 
for him to deal with engineers unexpectedly phoning or arriving at his home. British Gas has 
already paid Mr T and Mrs T £130 compensation. In the circumstances, I think that amount 
of compensation was reasonable and in line with the amount I would have required British 
Gas to pay. So, I currently intend to require British Gas to pay £130 compensation, which is 
made up of the £50 and £30 British Gas previously offered in response to the complaints 
and the additional £50 our investigator recommended. If all of this has already been paid, 
British Gas doesnt need to pay anything further.
However, I understand that British Gas paid some of the money by cheque and that Mr T 
and Mrs T might not have paid the cheques into a bank yet. If Mr T and Mrs T are no longer 
able to pay the cheques in, British Gas must take appropriate steps to ensure they receive 
the full £130 compensation, such as cancelling the cheques, if necessary, and reissuing the 
payments.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 11 October 2021.
British Gas didnt respond.
Mr T and Mrs T said:
they werent concerned about a gas leak but that no service was carried out on the boiler 
for two years when there were two harsh winters.
they hadnt received letters to get the boiler serviced.
they were still having problems with getting reminders for the boiler service and they 
were concerned they would miss another service.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive looked at the comments from Mr T and Mrs T. To 
clarify on the gas leak point, when Mr T spoke to one of our investigators, he said that if 
there had been a gas leak he could have taken British Gas to court. So, I commented on the 
gas leak point because Mr T raised it with our service. I was also already aware that Mr T 
and Mrs T were concerned about the gap between the annual services and that there were 
issues with receiving reminders. I took this into account when I made my provisional 
decision. None of these points cause me to revisit my decision, but Im grateful to Mr T and 
Mrs T for raising them.
If Mr T and Mrs T have ongoing concerns about the service they are receiving from British 
Gas, they would need to raise this as a new complaint with British Gas.  
Putting things right
British Gas must take reasonable steps to ensure Mr T and Mrs T receive the full £130 
compensation, including reissuing any payments if necessary.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to take reasonable steps 
to ensure Mr T and Mrs T receive the full £130 compensation, including reissuing any 
payments if necessary.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman