DRN-4196024
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly turned down claims he made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). He also says that BPF didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before it lent to 
him.
The finance agreement is in Mr As sole name  which is why the complaint is only in his 
name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract entered into by both Mr A and 
his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs A throughout much of this decision.
What happened
In early 2010 Mr and Mrs A were invited by a holiday company (the Company) to try out 
one of its resorts. They liked it, and took out a three-year trial membership of the Companys 
holiday club, for which they paid £3,995.
In September 2010 Mr and Mrs A upgraded their membership. The total cost was £11,224. 
They were able to put their original payment of £3,995 towards this as a trade-in. And they 
funded the balance of the purchase price with a fixed sum loan for £7,229 from BPF. The 
loan was in Mr As name, and was set to run for 15 years, with monthly repayments of 
£108.76. In the event, within a couple of weeks of the loan being advanced Mr A repaid 
£5,000 by cheque. The regular monthly repayments of £108.76, and a further lump sum 
repayment of £1,000 in February 2011, meant that Mr A had repaid the loan in full by 
December 2011.
Mr and Mrs A say their decision to upgrade from the trial membership followed a hard days 
sales pitch, and they were pressured into making the purchase. They also say that BPF 
didnt carry out proper checks to make sure they could afford the loan. Nor did it declare 
commission paid to the Company.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that Mr A had been too late in bringing his claim under section 75 of 
the CCA. So she didnt think it had been unreasonable of BPF to turn that claim down. She 
didnt think it was likely that a court would consider the relationship between Mr A and BPF 
to have been unfair. And she hadnt seen anything to make her think the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs A or that there was any other reason why their complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr and Mrs As representatives, on behalf of Mr and Mrs A, disagreed with the investigators 
view. So the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to BPF on 17 May 2023. I said:
My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the submissions and evidence provided by both parties to the 
complaint, and Ive borne them all in mind in reaching my decision. But Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions.
Section 75 CCA
Mr and Mrs A have complained that the Company mis-sold them the timeshare because 
they were incorrectly told at the time of sale that they could only exit their membership by 
buying a fractional points membership, and that it was guaranteed that theyd in turn be 
able to exit the fractional points membership after a certain number of years.
Where a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation against a supplier (the Company, in 
this case) they can, in certain circumstances, make a like claim against their lender 
under section 75 of the CCA. The claim against the lender effectively mirrors the claim the 
consumer could make against the supplier, provided that its made within the relevant 
limitation period.
But a section 75 claim is an action to recover any sum by virtue of any enactment under 
section 9 of the Limitation Act 1980. And the limitation period under that provision is six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Only a court can decide whether Mr As claim was made out of time under the Limitation 
Act 1980. But the Acts still relevant here, as I need to take it into account in deciding 
whether BPFs response to the claim was reasonable.
Im satisfied that in this case the date on which the cause of action accrued was the date 
on which Mr and Mrs A suffered damage. And any relevant damage was incurred when 
Mr and Mrs A bought the product. This is because date of purchase was the point at 
which they became liable under the purchase agreement and paid for the benefits which 
they say were misrepresented to them.
This means that any claim under section 75 of the CCA would need to be made within six 
years of the date when Mr and Mrs A bought the holiday product. That was in 2010. From 
what Ive seen, they didnt contact BPF until 2017. And by that time the six-year period 
within which Mr A would have needed to bring an action under section 75 of the CCA had 
expired.
Could limitation be extended?
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs As representatives have suggested that the time limit 
should be extended. Theyve cited section 32 of the Limitation Act 1980 in support of this. 
The say the Company paid BPF a commission and that this was concealed from Mr and 
Mrs A. And they say this means that the limitation period doesnt start to run until BPF 
and the Company acknowledge that commission was paid and disclose the amount.
The effect of section 32 of the Limitation Act is, in summary, that the limitation period 
could be postponed if Mr and Mrs As action were based on BPFs fraud, or if BPF 
deliberately concealed a fact which was relevant to the right of action from Mr and Mrs A.But Mr As claim under section 75 of the CCA isnt based on the fraud of the BPF. Its 
based on an alleged misrepresentation by the Company. And I dont think the alleged 
payment of undisclosed commission by the Company can be said to be a fact thats 
relevant to Mr As section 75 claim either. So Im not persuaded that a court would say 
the limitation period for a claim under section 75 had been postponed in this case. And I 
cant fairly conclude that it was unfair of BPF to rely on the Limitation Act to turn down Mr 
As claim
Unfair relationship  section 140A CCA
Section 140A of the CCA allows a court to determine whether an unfair relationship exists 
between the creditor (BPF in this case) and the debtor (Mr A) because of any of the terms 
of the credit agreement, the way the creditor has enforced their rights under the 
agreement, or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the 
credit agreement was made. Again, only a court has power to make such a 
determination, but as I consider it to be relevant law, Ive taken it into account in deciding 
whether BPF acted fairly in declining Mr As claim.
Ive also borne in mind that, under section 56 of the CCA any negotiations between Mr 
and Mrs A and the Company are deemed to have been conducted by the Company as an 
agent for BPF. This includes any representations made by the Company and any other 
dealings between them. In the context of section 140A this means that the pre-contractual 
acts or omissions of the Company will be deemed to be the responsibility of the lender. 
So this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an unfair relationship 
exists between the consumer and the lender.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not convinced that theres any basis on which I 
could properly conclude that there was an unfair relationship in this case.
Mr and Mrs A say they decided to upgrade their membership in September 2010 after a 
hard days sales pitch. I understand that these sales meetings often ran on for many 
hours and the Companys representatives would have highlighted the benefits of the 
product.
But while I dont doubt that the techniques used might have made saying no more 
difficult, Im not satisfied that this means that Mr and Mrs A were left with no effective 
choice but to opt for the upgrade. And Im not persuaded that they ended up with a 
membership that they didnt actually want.
I note that Mr and Mrs A say they upgraded their membership again in January 2011, due 
to further pressured selling while on holiday at one of the Companys resorts. But on that 
occasion, they realised when they got home that they couldnt afford to spend the further 
money, particularly in view of on-going health concerns at the time. And they cancelled 
the further upgrade within the cooling-off period. If theyd decided, on reflection, that they 
didnt want to go ahead with the September 2010 upgrade, they could have cancelled that 
within the cooling-off period in the same way.
I believe Mr and Mrs A were aware that they were buying membership of the holiday club. 
The loan agreement sets out the purchase price, the number of years financed, the 
applicable interest rate and the monthly payments.So I accept that the sales presentation may have been weighted towards the attractive 
lifestyle that the club membership could provide. But I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that its likely that a court would find that the gap in knowledge between 
what Mr and Mrs A thought they were buying and what they actually got was so 
significant as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
section 140A of the CCA.
Mr and Mrs As representatives have pointed out that Mr and Mrs A had no control over 
the amounts theyd have to pay as an annual management charge. And they say that this 
amounts to an unfair term under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR). They argue that the whole contract is unenforceable as a result.
The representatives have referred me to another ombudsmans decision about a different 
type of timeshare contract. In that case, the ombudsman concluded that the some of the 
charges the consumers had to pay werent explained clearly enough, and that a court 
would likely conclude that they were unfair for various reasons. Mr and Mrs As 
representatives say Mr and Mrs A had to pay the same charges, so I should reach the 
same conclusion. But I dont accept this.
First, if a term is unfair under the UTCCR, only that term is unenforceable. The rest of the 
contract continues to bind both parties.
And Mr and Mrs As representatives havent provided any evidence to show that the 
charges in this case are the same as the charges in the other case, or that the relevant 
terms operated in the same way  on paper or in practice  and were therefore unfair for 
the same reasons.
Whats more, the Supreme Court has made it clear that for the purposes of section 140A 
of the CCA, any regulatory breach must be considered in the round, rather than in a 
narrow, technical way. Section 140A(2) says that a court shall have regard to all matters 
it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the 
debtor). I think thats wide enough to include the way the supplier exercises or enforces 
any terms that are or may be unfair. But I havent seen sufficient evidence that any terms 
in this case were exercised or enforced in a way that was unfair to Mr and Mrs A.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs A say that theyve calculated that the management 
charges have increased by around 8% per year. But I think its unlikely that a court would 
consider an annual increase on that level to be so significant as to lead it to determine 
that it renders the debtor-creditor relationship between BPF and Mr A unfair.
Ive also considered the reference to commission that Mr A thinks BPF would have paid 
to the Company. As far as Im aware, the levels of commission normally paid in this 
situation (at the relevant time) werent high enough to mean that BPF should have 
appreciated that not telling Mr A about any commission paid risked the debtor-creditor 
relationship being unfair under section 140A. If any commission was paid (which isnt 
certain) I think its unlikely to have been more than 10%. I cant see that BPF would have 
breached any duty in making such a payment. And Im not persuaded that it was under 
an obligation to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances.
So taking everything into account, I cant fairly conclude that BPF should have upheld Mr 
As claim under section 140A of the CCA.Mr and Mrs As representatives have raised other arguments about unfair terms, but as 
our investigator pointed out, those arguments concern fractional timeshare ownership. 
The membership that Mr and Mrs A bought in September 2010, which forms the subject 
of this complaint, wasnt fractional. So I havent considered those points as Im satisfied 
that they arent relevant here.
Affordability checks
Mr A has also expressed dissatisfaction about the checks which BPF carried out to 
ensure that the loan was affordable for him. And his representatives have said that BPF 
failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment in line with the Finance and 
Leasing Associations Lending Code 2006.
I havent been provided with details of the affordability checks that BPF carried out before 
making the loan. But even if I were to reach the view that BPF should have carried out 
more detailed checks than it did, I could only require it to take action to put things right if I 
were convinced that an appropriate level of checks would have revealed that Mr A would 
have difficulty meeting the monthly payments of £108.76.
As things stand, neither Mr A nor his representatives have made any suggestion that the 
payments were, in fact, unaffordable for him, or explained why that was likely to have 
been the case, given his financial circumstances at the time of sale.
As Ive mentioned above, Mr and Mrs A say they upgraded their membership again in 
January 2011, but quickly realised that they couldnt afford to spend the further money at 
the time, and cancelled that further upgrade. If theyd had concerns about the affordability 
of the first upgrade, I think its likely, on balance, that theyd have cancelled it within the 
cooling-off period, as they did with the subsequent upgrade.
So based on what Ive seen so far, Im not persuaded that theres any reason to uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Further submissions
BPF has confirmed that it has no further comments to make. Mr As representatives havent 
provided us with any further comments or information, and the time for doing so has now 
expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont consider that theres any good reason to depart from the findings I 
set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman