DRN-2129975
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) hasnt handled his 
mobile phone insurance policy claim fairly.
 
All references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr As daughters phone was accidentally dropped resulting in the glass on the back of the 
phone becoming cracked. Mr A contacted Assurant to make a claim on his family mobile 
phone insurance policy.
Assurant accepted Mr As claim and advised him he could take the phone directly to one of 
the manufacturers shops for a walk-in repair. This would cost £319 and Assurant would 
cover this minus a £75 excess. Mr A agreed to do this, and Assurant paid £244 into his bank 
account. 
When Mr A went into the manufacturers store, he was told the phone couldnt be repaired. 
They offered him a like for like replacement for £589. Mr A agreed to this and paid for the 
replacement phone. He sent the receipt on to Assurant and asked it to reimburse him for the 
extra hed needed to pay. But Assurant wouldnt agree to pay this. It said it hadnt agreed to 
this prior to Mr A accepting the replacement.
Mr A complained to Assurant. He said hed made it clear to Assurant in his conversations 
with it that the damage was to the glass on the back of the phone, rather than the front 
screen. He said Assurant shouldnt have advised him to take it to the manufacturer to be 
fixed. If Assurant had asked him to send the phone to it, he would have done so. He would 
have received a replacement anyway as the phone couldnt have been fixed.
Assurant didnt agree it should reimburse Mr A for the extra hed paid. It said it had explained 
the walk in process in a phone conversation before hed taken the phone in for repair. If the 
phone couldnt be repaired like for like and Mr A chose to replace it, Assurant would not 
cover any additional costs.
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Following our 
involvement, Assurant offered Mr A £50 for misadvising him that the phone could be fixed by 
going to the manufacturers store.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2020, where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr As complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules require Assurant to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Assurant has acknowledged that it shouldnt have advised Mr A to take his phone into the 
manufacturers store to be fixed, given the back of the phone was damaged rather than the 
screen. Its offered Mr A £50 to compensate him for inconvenience. But Mr A doesnt think 
this is sufficient because of the additional costs hes incurred.
Assurant says it made it clear to Mr A that it would not cover any additional repair costs. It 
says Mr A should have called Assurant before agreeing to pay the additional amount to the 
manufacturer, rather than assuming Assurant would cover this. 
Ive listened to the phone conversation where Assurant told Mr A to go the manufacturers 
store. In this the adviser says:
We only cover like for like repairs for the damage you have told us about. So any additional 
repair costs, upgrades or replacements we dont cover. So if you get there and they say 
actually we cant repair it needs replacing, call us and well continue with the claim.
I can see that Assurant also sent Mr A an email the same day which says:
What if (the manufacturer) cannot repair my device?
If (the manufacturer) cant repair your (phone) within the funds provided, please note we will 
only cover like-for-like repairs for the damage youve told us about, any costs for additional 
repair, upgrades or replacements will not be covered by your policy. You can choose to pay 
the difference, or contact us to follow the alternative claims process.
So, I think Assurant did make it clear to Mr A that he needed to contact it in the event that 
the manufacturer couldnt repair the phone for the sum Assurant had paid him. 
Assurant says that if Mr A had made contact, it would have asked him to return the phone 
and it would have sent him a working replacement in exchange. It says it would be in a 
worse position if it reimbursed Mr A the extra he paid, because the damaged device couldnt 
be returned to it as it had been given to the manufacturer.
As Mr A has already arranged for the phone to be replaced, the only way of indemnifying 
him for his loss is for Assurant to pay him a cash settlement. But under the circumstances, I 
think it would be fair for the cash settlement to be equivalent to what it would have cost 
Assurant to replace the phone if it had been given the opportunity to do so. 
Ive asked Assurant to send me evidence to show how much it would have had to pay for a 
replacement phone from its suppliers (at the time of the claim) as well as the salvage value 
of the damaged phone. But Assurant has told me it isnt able to provide this information. This 
means I cant determine how much it would have cost Assurant if it had been able to settle 
the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
In the absence of this information from Assurant, I think it would be fair for it to cash settle  
Mr As claim based on the amount it cost him to replace the phone. Mr A paid £589 for the 
replacement phone. This minus the £75 excess and the £244 Assurant has already paid is 
£270. 
Assurant says if it was to pay Mr A the £270, its mis-advice (to go to the manufacturers 
store) wont have caused him any detriment. It doesnt think it should have to pay the £50 its 
already offered on top of the £270.  
Mr A has commented that he took time off work and made a long and unnecessary journey 
to the manufacturers store to get the phone fixed. But Ive kept in mind that Mr A took in two phones to be repaired and the other phone was fixed. So, I dont think his trip to the 
manufacturers store was entirely fruitless. 
On balance, I think £270 would be a fair amount to settle Mr As complaint, based on what 
Ive seen so far.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further information or comments 
before I made my final decision. 
Responses
Assurant said it had nothing further to add as it agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr A wanted to add that he told Assurant about the damage from the first phone call when 
he logged the claim and he only got the damage repaired in a like for like way. He feels 
Assurant was aware of this and wanted to hide behind terms and conditions and small print, 
not whats fair and right. 
He told Assurant the back screen/glass was broken and the only way to fix it was a 
replacement phone which is all he got. He didnt benefit in any way. The manufacturer 
replaced the phone at approximately half the cost of a new one. Mr A acted in good faith. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A acted in good faith when he accepted the replacement phone from the 
manufacturer. This was on a like for like basis, so he didnt benefit from doing so.
Assurant has accepted the findings I reached in my provisional decision. This means its 
willing to reimburse Mr A for the cost of the replacement phone (minus the excess and what 
its already paid). 
So, I think it would be fair for Assurant to pay Mr A £270. 
Putting things right
Assurant should pay Mr A £270.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman