DRN-3158162
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc registered a marker at national fraud databases including 
CIFAS and is holding him responsible for payments he didnt make.
What happened
Mr M says he wanted to apply for an account with TSB in April 2019. When he did so he 
didnt receive a card or PIN or use any account. He found out that any account that had 
been opened was closed. And he was unhappy to discover in 2020 that there was a CIFAS 
marker and that TSB held him responsible for account activity.
TSB told him that it wouldnt be removing the marker. It said in its final responses that it had 
received a number of applications from Mr M in April 2019. These had used his correct 
information and details were sent to his home address. An account in his name was misused 
and this led to both accounts in his name being closed. It said it had grounds to apply the 
CIFAS marker and it didnt have to tell Mr M about this. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. The CIFAS marker should be 
removed and Mr M shouldnt be held liable for any payments from these accounts. Mr M said 
he had applied for an account on 3 April 2019 and registered for online banking. He had 
never received a card or PIN. He explained that he then lived in a building with a communal 
entrance and pigeon holes for each flat. He received an email on 23 April 2019 saying that 
his online banking had been cancelled. Mr M said he assumed there was a problem and had 
made a further application on 24 April 2019 again linking his account to online banking. He 
called TSB on 1 May 2019 saying that the account he could see on online banking couldnt 
be his as there were transactions on it he hadnt made. 
TSB explained that the CIFAS marker related to the misuse of the first account. A small 
deposit had been made and payments made using pay at pump. This meant that only £1 
was pre authorised each time but the subsequent payments due resulted in an unplanned 
overdraft  a specific type of fraud. 
Our investigator believed it plausible that Mr M hadnt received the card or PIN as hed told 
TSB at the time. And that his further application on 24 April 2019 was a genuine one thinking 
that his first bank account wasnt operating. There wasnt sufficient information to support the 
CIFAS marker. He didnt consider that Mr M should be held responsible for the payments 
and that any information on his credit file about these should be removed.
TSB said it agreed to remove the CIFAS marker. But it thought it unlikely that someone other 
than Mr M could have known about the application and intercepted the card and PIN which 
had been sent separately. That person would have had to deposit cash and then made 
payments for fuel totalling over £270 and this was a number of days after the account had 
been opened. The disputed transactions were pay at pump ones which didnt show up on his 
account immediately and werent dealt with until after it had been closed. It was unclear why 
Mr M hadnt reported his card as not received until his call of 1 May 2019. Mr M had also 
been inconsistent and at one point had suggested in his complaint correspondence that he 
hadnt opened the accounts. It said that it would hold Mr M liable for these payments. It 
hadnt removed the marker at first as the issue about the disputed balance hadnt been 
resolved. But it has made arrangements to do so now.
Mr M also provided more information and comments. This included information from his 
mobile phone which he said showed that he was at work during the day the card was 
misused. And details of the two deposits of £5 and £10 to the account that day which were 
made within minutes of each other at branches 20 miles apart. He said that at no time was 
he told he was liable for any payments and nor had he been provided with evidence about 
them. He wanted compensation for the distress he and his family had been caused which 
included the loss of his account at a different bank and his lack of access to credit facilities 
with a fear that other banking arrangements would be withdrawn.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2021. I set out below what I said.
I explained I would be taking into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in 
considering this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was 
consented to. So, its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if 
they werent authorised Mr M wouldnt generally be responsible for them. If I were to find that 
these were authorised I also would need to consider whether the report to CIFAS about 
them was made fairly. On this point, TSB needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It 
has to show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the 
authorities. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr M applied for the account from which the disputed payments were 
made. I was satisfied from the audit log provided by TSB that the payments were 
authenticated using his card details for this account. The issue I needed to decide it whether 
he consented to and so authorised the payments.
I thought that the recording of the call which Mr M had with TSB on 1 May 2019 was of 
assistance in considering this. He called to say he has registered with online banking but 
that the account showing isnt the one he had applied for. He is told that the account he had 
applied for most recently had been closed on 29 April 2019. There is a discussion about the 
account showing and he says he never had a card for this one and thought it hadnt been 
opened as a result. The member of staff tells him that this account has been closed too and 
he was sent a letter about that on 23 April 2019. He is told that there is a credit balance on 
that account of just under £10 and he says that it isnt his money and he doesnt recognise 
the entries on the account. He ends by saying it is possible he has opened two accounts 
accidentally thinking that the other wasnt open.
He has since provided this service with an email from TSB dated 23 April 2019 stating that 
his internet banking has been cancelled. And hes clarified that this is the reason why he 
applied for a further account on 24 April 2019. Id also seen evidence that at the time the first 
account was closed there was a credit balance. I was still unclear why the disputed 
payments for fuel arent shown given that the account was closed on 1 May 2019. But I 
accepted that the only information available about that account to both Mr M and the person 
he spoke to on 1 May 2019 was about the credit balance. And this is a reasonable 
explanation for why he didnt do anything further to dispute those payments at that time.
The information he has received as part of a SAR request shows that the CIFAS marker was 
added on 23 April 2019 in respect of his first account. Any further comments about this being 
due to multiple applications werent correct although it seems did influence the review of the 
marker when Mr M complained.I thought that there has been room for genuine confusion on the part of Mr M about what 
happened. And this explains why the further issues about the consequences of those 
disputed payments didnt come up until the time when he intended to make a mortgage 
application in 2020 and had issues with his account at a different financial business. I didnt 
agree that Mr M had therefore attempted to misrepresent what happened in his 
correspondence. A year had passed since his call and I thought he had a genuine concern 
about his identity having been misused.  That in itself came following a letter from TSB 
referring to there having been multiple applications in his name and an inference he drew 
that the CIFAS marker related to a subsequent account. 
I found it unlikely that Mr M would have applied for an account again had he been aware of 
the actual payments on the first account. And that this would otherwise not have come up as 
an issue when he spoke to TSB on 1 May 2019. I thought his responses then were 
straightforward and no attempt was ever made to ask him to account for him not using the 
card and making the payments. Seemingly the issue wasnt dealt with because there was 
thought to be a credit balance on the account. 
Mr M explained that he had switched a previous account from TSB in February 2019 to get 
an incentive elsewhere. He explains he didnt chase a card and assumed there was a 
problem when he received the response from online banking. Had he carried out the 
disputed payments I thought him applying for a further account was unlikely as was him 
calling about this. There is a reasonable explanation for why the card and PIN may have 
been intercepted taking into account the wider circumstances here.
The further information he has provided about the credits to his account supports this. One 
credit was made at 16:02 on 10 April 2019 for £5 and another at 16:04 for £10 which were at 
branches a distance away. Pay at pump transactions - meaning that £1 was authorised from 
the account - were made at 16:52 and 16:57 that day and a third at 13:20 the following day. 
There were other small payments that Mr M had seen on his account leading to an available 
balance of £9.95 before the pay at pump debits were made. These were the payments that 
he could see during his call with TSB.
putting things right
I found it most likely that he didnt make these disputed payments. That being the case there 
is no basis at all for a CIFAS marker and TSB has agreed to remove this. I made clear that    
Mr M has also referred to other markers that he says were added at the same time in error 
on different third-party databases relating to his accounts. TSB hasnt made any comments 
to explain those to Mr M and I accepted that any fraud marker shown on another system 
shouldnt have been registered either. These seem to have been removed. I couldnt 
distinguish the effects of any other markers from the CIFAS marker and said I am 
considering the overall position here. 
I considered that Mr M shouldnt be held responsible for the disputed payments and any 
adverse information should be removed from his credit record about these accounts. 
I needed to think about compensation which I could only award for the impact on Mr M the 
complainant here. Financial businesses must make their own checks when considering 
whether to provide financial products. And a marker shouldnt lead to automatic refusal. I 
dont have details of any specific mortgage application Mr M made and nor could I say that 
but for the marker he could have had other financial products. He also says he was able to 
move but to a smaller property than he wanted. Having said that I took into account the time 
that the marker has been in place, the clear distress and inconvenience caused to him and 
the confusing information he has been provided with. We dont make punitive awards and I 
had taken account of published guidance about compensation and considered a payment of £300 is appropriate. I appreciated this may be less than he wants but it was fair in the 
circumstances here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB responded to my provisional decision to say that there were no adverse credit markers 
it could see relating to these payments. It said that the CIFAS marker had already been 
removed. It didnt make any specific comments about my proposal for compensation or 
about whether it agreed or accepted my conclusions about the payments. 
Mr M made further comments and included evidence. He referred to several places where 
Id not properly referred to TSB in my provisional decision which Ive already adjusted for 
above. He accepted my conclusions about the markers and the disputed payments.
Mr M said that he thought that the impact of the marker had been underrepresented. He said 
that he appreciated that he hadnt sent details of this before. He provided a copy of a 
mortgage illustration and evidence he borrowed money from family at a higher rate of 
interest to allow them to move. He said he needed to go to TSB four times to obtain 
information and covered 133 miles with costs of £100. And he said that TSB should have 
provided this information to him in the first place. He hadnt received cashback on his 
account with a different bank. While he understood that his bank needed to make its own 
judgement once it saw that the CIFAS marker was removed it had reinstated his accounts. 
There was clear distress and inconvenience to him and his family. Had TSB provided clear 
information then this wouldnt have been caused. And this would also have been the position 
if it had done a proper investigation when he called on 1 May 2019.
Mr M said he had been given different information about when the petrol transactions were 
done. There was an incorrect explanation for why the markers were in place. TSB 
misrepresented what happened in the call of 1 May 2019. And it had claimed incorrectly that 
it hadnt placed a marker on other national fraud databases and one of which had given a 
different reason that he had paid in a false instrument. TSB had removed these markers in 
November 2020 but not the CIFAS one. He was never provided with evidence about the 
transactions. He said he was unhappy with the way his complaint had been handled by TSB 
and it hadnt explained things correctly or properly.
I have considered this further information carefully. I think Mr M has now had a reasonable 
opportunity to make a claim for financial loss. 
Hes explained that the mortgage which seemed to be taken out only in the name of his 
partner had a fixed interest rate for 2 years of 1.18% per annum. And that they both in the 
end borrowed £65,000 from family documented at an interest rate of 1.5% per annum. He 
wants the difference in the rate applied to the £65,000. I dont have information to show 
exactly what was drawn on the mortgage and to confirm that this was reduced solely due to 
the impact of the CIFAS marker. Or to find that a higher amount at the same rate could 
otherwise have been borrowed. But even if I did I need to take into account that there were 
arrangement fees and a product fee for the mortgage noted that are relevant to a fair 
comparison of relative costs. And that there was a voluntary arrangement he came to with a 
family member. So, Im not persuaded that it is reasonable to require TSB to pay him the 
£416 he wants. 
Mr M hasnt shown the amount of cashback he says he lost through not having his bank 
account. And I remain of the view that it was a matter for this bank to decide how to assess the CIFAS marker.
I understand what he says about complaint handling. TSB did provide a final response to the 
initial complaint on 7 April 2020. Mr M referred his complaint to this service. And TSB 
responded to him further about the other fraud markers on 28 October 2020 and then told  
Mr M that it wouldnt have anything to add.
Im taking into account what I think both about the CIFAS and other markers and the 
disputed payments in my assessment of the merits. And by noting as Ive explained on what 
our investigator had said in his initial view and his attempts to reach a mediation with TSB 
before the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. So, I assess how the fact 
that the matter wasnt resolved earlier impacted on Mr M when deciding how to put things 
right. I wouldnt necessarily have expected TSB to say or provide more to Mr M after he 
referred his complaint. This service was then investigating things. 
I need to decide on the appropriate level of compensation. As I said in my provisional 
decision we dont make punitive awards and I can only think about the impact on Mr M. We 
dont tend to make awards for hours spent but think about the overall impact. I note what he 
says about the additional inconvenience of his contact with TSB over the other fraud 
markers and the related incorrect information. 
Having considered the compensation again I have decided that I didnt fully take into account 
the impact on him through distress and inconvenience based on what hes now said. 
Accordingly, I increase the amount of compensation from £300 to £450. I have decided I can 
make this modest increase for this narrow issue fairly without a further provisional decision 
because I understand Mr Ms position. And because TSB havent had anything to say about 
my original compensation award.
I retain the other elements of my resolution as before. I appreciate that Mr M will remain 
disappointed with this outcome given his recent comments.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to:1) Remove the CIFAS marker as it has already now done.
2) Remove Mr M from any liability for the disputed payments from the account so that 
he doesnt owe anything.
3) Ensure that there is no adverse information reported about the account(s) to credit 
reference agencies or to any other third parties as it says it already has now done.
4) Pay Mr M £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman