DRN-2687000
The complaint
Mr K complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC refused to open a new account for him until he 
provided identification evidence, as it said he held a dormant account with it.
What happened
Mr K says he applied for a new Al Rayan account online but was told he had a dormant 
account and so he would need to provide it with identity documents. He says that he is not 
prepared to send his passport to Al Rayan or provide certified copies. Mr K says he would 
like a new account opened as well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
has been caused and says the dormant account can remain in that state.
Al Rayan says it needs identity evidence from Mr K to lift the dormancy marker before it can 
consider a new application.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Al Rayan required identity evidence in any event to open a new account, and so 
thought Mr K would have to provide it. The investigator also thought Al Rayan would accept 
certified identity copies.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and questions if an account was ever opened in the past. He 
says he should not have to pay for certified identity copies and says other banks dont 
require such evidence when opening new accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
It is not clear if Mr K ever held a Al Rayan account or that he went through an account 
opening process but didnt compete it. I dont think it matters in any event as Al Rayan has 
said that if Mr K would like to open a new account then it needs to remove the dormancy 
marker it holds on its records and to do so it requires identity evidence. I can also see that Al 
Rayan requires identity evidence to open a new account and so if Mr K would like an 
account with Al Rayan then Im satisfied that he will need to provide identity evidence.
I appreciate Mr K says other banks dont require such identity documents. But I dont think 
that matters as Al Rayan says it does require such documents and Im satisfied that its up to 
it to decide what its account opening requirements are. I make clear to Mr K that its not our 
role to interfere in Al Rayans commercial decisions or in how it decides it wishes to comply 
with its regulatory duties.
Im satisfied that Al Rayan has told Mr K that he can provide it with a certified copy of an 
identity document. I appreciate that there may be a small charge for providing that but that is 
not something I can fairly hold Al Rayan responsible for. And if Mr K would like an account 
with it then he will have to follow its rules and requirements.
Overall, I find Al Rayan has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasnt made a mistake. It 
follows that I cant fairly order Al Rayan to open an account for Mr K or pay him the 
compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman