DRN-3456036
The complaint
Miss G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited reduced her No Claims Discount (NCD) 
from seventeen to three years following a fault claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Gs car was stolen, and she made a claim on her policy. Miss G hadnt protected her 
NCD. Ageas settled her claim and it reduced Miss Gs NCD to three years. It said this was in 
keeping with its step back process following a fault claim. Miss G thought this was unfair as 
guidance on our website said that NCD was usually reduced by two years following a fault 
claim. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Ageas 
NCD step-back process was unusual. And so she thought it should have made its step-back 
process clearer when Miss G bought her policy. She thought Miss G may have acted 
differently if it had done so. She thought Ageas should either reduce the NCD to seven years 
or apply NCD protection retrospectively (and charge Miss G for this). And she thought Ageas 
should confirm this in writing and pay Miss G £50 compensation for the stress caused. 
Ageas replied that the sale was non-advised, and Miss G had the option to protect her NCD. 
It said the NCD step-back process was included in its policy booklet. It said it had treated 
Miss G in the same way as any other customer. Ageas asked for an Ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G has explained that this claim has affected her badly. She said shed lost her car but 
couldnt replace it with a similar one with Ageas settlement. She said the claim had affected 
her premiums if she were to change her car and also her NCD entitlement. I can understand 
that Miss G feels frustrated, but I cant see that Miss G has complained to Ageas about the 
valuation of her car or the possible premium increase. So I cant consider these matters 
here. 
Miss G said she had seventeen years NCD entitlement, and this was reduced to three years 
following her claim. I can see that Ageas recognises a maximum of nine years NCD 
entitlement, which I think is in keeping with standard industry practice. But Ageas states on 
page 18 of its policy booklet that any NCD of five years or over is stepped back to three 
years following a fault claim. 
I think that this is an unusual term in motor insurance policies, as most insurers reduce NCD 
by two years in the event of a fault claim. And I think that if Ageas has a different process, 
then this should be made clear to consumers.
Because it is unusual and significant, I would expect it to be clearly set out in the policy 
wording, which it is, but also highlighted in the Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID), summary or Key Facts document. This is so that the term would be brought clearly to 
the customers attention at the point of sale so that they could make an informed choice 
about whether the policy suited their needs. 
But I cant see that the NCD step back process is highlighted in any of these documents. 
And I think it is unfair for Ageas to rely on it just being stated on page 18 of the policy 
booklet. 
I think that if Miss G had been made aware when she bought her policy that her seventeen 
years NCD would be reduced to three years in the event of a fault claim, then she may have 
acted differently. I think Miss G may have looked elsewhere for cover that better suited her 
needs, or she may have paid to protect her NCD. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Ageas has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
To make things right for Miss G, our Investigator suggested two alternative options for 
Ageas. It could reduce her NCD to seven years from its maximum of nine, or it could apply 
NCD protection retrospectively if Miss G paid for the cost from the start of her policy. And it 
should provide Miss G with confirmation in writing so that she can ask her current insurer to 
rerate her premium. I think either of these proposals are fair and reasonable as they would 
restore Miss Gs position. 
Miss G has been caused avoidable stress by Ageas unfair reduction of her NCD. The 
Investigator recommended that Ageas should pay her £50 compensation for this. I think 
thats in keeping with our published guidance. So I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do either of the following:
Reduce Miss Gs NCD entitlement to seven years (in keeping with its maximum of nine 
years being recognised), and confirm this amended proof of NCD in writing to Miss G. 
And pay Miss G £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
OR
Apply NCD protection retroactively to the policy and charge Miss G for the resulting increase 
in premiums from the point the policy was incepted and write to Miss G confirming her NCD 
entitlement. 
And pay Miss G £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman