DRN-3153401
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 8 June 2018, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Alphera. The agreement was for £47,338.00 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of 
£718.97 and a final optional payment of £24,936.00 if Mr M wanted to keep the car. At the 
time the car was almost four years old and had done 44,997 miles.
Mr M said he had problems with the car during the first year of driving, which were repaired. 
The car broke down again in April 2020, and the engine was replaced. After the engine 
replacement, there was another issue with the car, which was also fixed. And Mr M hasnt 
had any problems with the car since.
Mr M complained to Alphera in April 2020. But they didnt uphold his complaint because of 
the time between the car being supplied and the engine failure. So, Mr M brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said both parties agreed there was a fault with the car. And that this fault 
was successfully repaired in April 2020. He said that, while the fault hadnt occurred within 
the first six months of supply, this didnt mean the car was of a satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply, as durability had to be considered. 
The investigator didnt think that any reasonable person would expect an engine to fail after 
less than 60,000 miles; especially when the cost of the car was almost £50,000  as a luxury 
vehicle, he thought it was reasonable to expect a higher standard of quality. So, he didnt 
think the car was reasonably durable when it was supplied, and this made it of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
The investigator didnt think Mr M should be allowed to reject the car, because itd now been 
successfully repaired. But he did think Mr M suffered some inconvenience because the car 
wasnt of a satisfactory quality. He also said Mr M had been supplied with courtesy cars 
while the repairs were taking place, so he didnt think any payments should be refunded. 
But he recognised Mr M was the primary caregiver for his mother, and the courtesy cars 
werent a like for like replacement and didnt have deployable sidesteps to provide easy 
access. Which also caused Mr M some inconvenience. So, the investigator recommended 
that Alphera pay Mr M £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Alphera agreed with the investigator, but Mr M didnt. He said hed asked to reject the car in 
April 2020, but Alphera didnt agree to this. Mr M also didnt think the recommended £200 
was enough  the courtesy cars werent sufficient, which meant he had to rely on family and 
friends to fulfil medical appointments for his mother. And he said he would have expected a 
greater level of empathy and understanding given the circumstances. Mr M also referred to 
the time it had taken for our investigation to complete and therefore my course and 
expectation of resolve and conclusion differs from that desired initially.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Alphera are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Alphera can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr M to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Alphera to put this right.
When Mr M took possession of the car, it was almost 4 years old and had done 44,997 
miles. Id expect to see some wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. And I think 
any reasonable person would expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car over 
time. But I also need to consider the price Mr M paid for the car  over £47,000. The more 
expensive the car, the fewer issues Id expect to be present.
Ive seen that, on 11 October 2018, a split hose and pump were replaced at no cost to Mr M. 
At this point, the car had done 47,701 miles. And on 10 March 2020, the oil seals on the rear 
differential were replaced, also at no cost to Mr M. At the time of this repair, the car had done 
59,259 miles  14,262 miles in the 21 months since it was supplied to Mr M.
It's my understanding that, around this time, the gearbox cooler pipes were also replaced 
under warranty, although I havent seen any job cards to show me exactly when this work 
was done, or what the mileage was at the time.
The repairs carried out were to replace parts on the car that would be affected by wear and 
tear. And, given the age and mileage of the car, Id expect to see some wear and tear, with 
parts needed replacing. I also havent seen anything to show me that these repairs were 
linked to a single underlying issue with the car. So, while the symptoms of these faults were 
all fluid leaks, I dont think this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied.However, the engine failed in April 2020. And this was also replaced under warranty. While I 
also dont have a job card for this, based on the average mileage Mr M was doing, Im 
satisfied the engine failed around 59,900 miles. Im in agreement with the investigator that I 
dont think any reasonable person would expect the engine to fail after less than 60,000 
miles on a luxury car. And, because of this, Im satisfied that the engine wasnt sufficiently 
durable when the car was supplied. And this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr M didnt raise any issues with Alphera until 22 April 2020. At which point repairs on the 
car were underway, and the replacement engine was being sorted. As Ive seen nothing that 
links the replacement engine with the earlier issues with the car, and as the CRA gives 
Alphera one chance at repair; I dont think Alphera did anything wrong by not allowing Mr M 
to reject the car at this point.
Once the engine had been replaced, there was a further issue as the gearbox seal hadnt 
been fitted correctly. Which caused another fluid leak. But this was repaired, and Mr M 
hasnt had any repetition of this issue. Because Mr M accepted this repair, I also dont think it 
would now be fair for me to allow rejection of the car.
Putting things right
But this doesnt mean that Mr M didnt suffer some inconvenience. Its not disputed that the 
courtesy cars he was supplied with (while the engine and gearbox seal were being replaced) 
werent suitable for his needs. And this caused him some inconvenience. And hes said that 
it also caused some inconvenience to his family and friends. Mr M is also unhappy with the 
time its taken for us to investigate this matter.
The agreement was in Mr Ms name, and he was Alpheras customer. Because of this, Im 
only able to consider the impact this matter had on him. While I dont doubt that there was 
some inconvenience caused to his family and friends in having to take his mother to medical 
appointments, this isnt something Im able to ask Alphera to compensate them for.
Im also not able to ask Alphera to compensate Mr M for the fact that his expectations have 
changed while we were investigating this matter. And, as Im satisfied that the problems Mr 
M had with the car before the engine failed were as a result of general wear and tear, I also 
wont be considering any inconvenience caused by this.
The investigator recommended Alphera pay Mr M £200 for the inconvenience hed been 
caused. This is in line with what Id recommend for the inconvenience caused by the 
courtesy cars not being suitable for his needs when the engine and gearbox seal were 
replaced. And Ive not seen anything compelling that convinces me to increase this.
So, Alphera should pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and inconvenience hed been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as trading as Alphera Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman