DRN-2890585
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of N, a limited company, that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined 
a claim under Ns plant insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2018, work commenced to replace the asbestos roof at Ns premises. In January 
2019 it was found that dust containing asbestos had spread throughout the premises. 
N made a claim for damage to equipment caused by asbestos exposure. Lloyds declined the 
claim, saying the damage was caused by an event which took place before the period of 
insurance began. 
N disagreed with Lloyds declinature of the claim, saying that the dust identified in October 
2018 wasnt asbestos and that it was more likely that the work in January 2019 caused the 
spread of asbestos and the damage to Ns stored equipment. N referred its complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that on balance it was more likely that the source of the asbestos was the 2018 work 
which was outside the period of cover and so Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong in declining 
the claim.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment and so the complaint has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
The period of insurance began in November 2018, so I need to consider whether its 
likely, on the balance of probabilities, that the asbestos damage occurred before the 
insurance began, or more likely that it happened during the period of cover.
The exclusion Lloyds has relied on states: Damage caused by pollution or 
contamination will not be covered Unless arising from pollution or contamination 
which is caused by a sudden, unintended and unexpected incident which takes place 
in its entirety at a specific time and place during the period of insurance and provided 
that all pollution or contamination, which arises out of such incident, shall be deemed 
to have occurred at the time such incident takes place.
Mr P has asked, on behalf of N, that I bear in mind two key issues; when parts of the 
premises possibly became exposed, and when the equipment was damaged. Hes 
asked that I dont conflate the two issues. And Ive thought carefully about the 
information hes provided in relation to what he considers to have been the likely 
cause of the asbestos exposure, the nature of the Plant and Equipment policy, and 
the location of the equipment, among other things. But Im afraid I dont agree that 
the points hes made would mean the most likely cause of the asbestos exposure 
was the January 2019 work. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr Ps view that just because asbestos was found to be present 
in the wider premises in October 2018, this does not necessarily mean the equipment 
was damaged at that time  which is what N is claiming for. However, Mr P hasnt 
been able to persuade me, even with reference to the location of the equipment 
(which was in the adjacent store room, separated from the wider premises by an 
internal wall, which did not go all the way up to the roof) that the likely cause of the 
damage to the equipment in the store room was the January 2019 work. This is partly 
because both parties accept that the work in October 2018 involved the replacement 
of asbestos sheets and that there was asbestos dust present in the wider premises 
following that work. And I find it unlikely that asbestos would be present in one part of 
the premises but not another adjacent part  the store room. 
Secondly, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence which would adequately explain 
how asbestos wouldve been present in the wider premises but wouldnt have 
reached the store room in October 2018. And based on the correspondence Ive 
seen, its clear that there were means for the asbestos dust to spread to the store 
room at that time. For example, an email from N confirms that the store room wasnt 
fully sealed off from the rest of the premises and that doors were vented, in constant 
use and frequently propped open, as well as the fact that internal walls didnt go all 
the way up to the ceiling. This persuades me that its likely the asbestos wouldve 
spread to the store room in October 2018, as it wasnt fully closed off.
Thirdly, on 3 January 2019 when contractors began work to remove the suspended 
ceiling, the work ceased soon after it began, due to the identification of the asbestos 
roof debris. This is evidenced by an email on 4 January 2019 from N to its landlord 
which says our contractor identified the fact that the asbestos roof had recently been 
replaced and that the roofspace and insulation in particular has now been 
contaminated with asbestosFrom the amount of dust/debris in the storage area 
which your roofing contractors came back to clean up, I can imagine that there is a 
similar quantity within the insulation and on the ceiling tiles. The dust wasnt tested, 
so we dont know for certain if it was asbestos dust which had contaminated the store 
room in October 2018  but on the balance of probabilities, I think it was, because 
the asbestos was already present when the work began, and the dust and debris was 
also present in the storage area, which makes me think its likely the storage area 
was already contaminated before the January 2019 work commenced.
So, whilst Ive considered carefully the arguments made by Mr P on behalf of N, and 
in the absence of any persuasive evidence which could adequately explain how the 
October 2018 work wouldnt have resulted in the wider exposure but instead the 
January 2019 work wouldve caused the spread of asbestos to the store room, I find 
it more plausible that the cause of the asbestos was indeed the October 2018 work  
which is supported by the evidence Ive mentioned above. As this was outside the 
period of insurance, it follows that I dont think Lloyds has been unreasonable in 
declining the claim for the reasons it did.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman