DRN-3697400
The complaint
Mrs U complains National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund transactions she didnt make 
or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint as well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision: 
In late April 2021 Mrs U discovered that over £11,000 had been spent using her debit 
card.
These payments debited Mrs Us account between 16 February 2021 and 28 April 
2021 and Mrs U has said her daughter made the payments without her permission. 
The payments were to an online entertainment service, which Ill call G.
NatWest declined to refund the payments as it said they were not in-line with any 
fraud trends and the debit card had been in Mrs Us possession during the period in 
question.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint, they werent persuaded Mrs U authorised the 
transactions or otherwise consented to them. And as the payments were for a 
distance contract the provisions in relation to a failure with intent or gross negligence 
didnt apply. 
NatWest didnt reply to the Investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for the following 
reasons. 
Under sections 77(4)(d) of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), except where a payer 
has acted fraudulently, the payer isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an 
unauthorised payment transaction where the payment instrument has been used in 
connection with a distance contract. A distance contract means a contract concluded 
between a trader and a consumer under an organised distance sales or service-provision 
scheme without the simultaneous physical presence of the trader and the consumer subject 
to some exclusions (as per regulation 5 of the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. 
There isnt any provision within the PSRs which holds Mrs U liable for a transaction made via 
a distance contract if it was unauthorised, even if she acted with gross negligence or intent. 
And the terms and conditions of Mrs Us account also state that any unauthorised payments 
made via a distance contract will be refunded.
All of the transactions in dispute here were online payments. As the payments instrument 
was used in connection with a distance contract, gross negligence (or a failure with intent) 
isnt a factor for my consideration. Under the PSRs, NatWest can only hold Mrs U liable for 
the payments, if she either authorised the transactions or she acted fraudulently. There is no 
persuasive evidence, nor has NatWest sought to argue, that she acted fraudulently. 
Therefore my consideration is solely in relation to whether Mrs U authorised the 
transactions. The payments were made using Mrs Us legitimate card details when the card 
was in her possession. It appears that Mrs Us card details had been saved by her daughter 
and then used with the daughters online account with G. So the question here is whether 
Mrs U allowed her daughter to use her card details in this way and therefore consented to 
the transactions being made. 
Ive listened to a conversation Mrs U had with NatWest on 16 February 2021. At that time a 
small number of payments to G had been flagged as potential fraud and so NatWest had 
contacted Mrs U to ask her to confirm these payments were genuine. When Mrs U spoke 
with NatWest she explained that her daughter had got hold of her card details and used 
them without permission to make payments to G. During this call she didnt indicate that she 
had ever willingly given her card details to her daughter to use.
I think its unlikely that, following this conversation, Mrs U would then have given her card 
details to her daughter or otherwise allowed her to use them for payments to G. On this 
basis I consider it more likely than not that Mrs U did not consent to these payments being 
made. It follows that these payments should therefore be treated as unauthorised and, as 
per the PSRs and the terms of Mrs Us account NatWest is therefore not able to hold her 
liable for them and they should be refunded to her.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint NatWest should:
- Refund the payments made to G between 17 February 2021 and 27 April 2021 
(inclusive)
- Pay 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the payments were made until the 
date of settlement)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman