DRN-3105777
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed payment of his 
pension plan and that this led to him receiving a lower value than he was entitled to. 
What happened
Mr B had two pension plans with Aviva. One was built up from Former Protected Rights and 
the other from Non-Protected Rights. The earliest point that Mr B was entitled to access his 
pension plan funds was in mid-March 2020. 
I understand that Mr B first requested a claim pack from Aviva in early December 2019. This 
was provided shortly after the request. Then in early January 2020 Mr B received information 
from Aviva showing that his Non-Protected Rights plan had a transfer value of £2,614.34 
and his Former Protected Rights plan had a transfer value of £22,422.73. The information 
stated the figures werent guaranteed and would change. 
Mr B completed various forms during January 2020 so that he could take the full value of his 
pension plans as a lump sum payment into his bank account as soon as he became entitled 
to access them. He received an updated estimate for his total fund value dated 16 January 
2020. This said that his estimated retirement fund was £25,063.25. (£2,617.69 Non-
Protected Rights and £22,445.56 Former Protected Rights). The 16 January 2020 letter also 
included the next steps Mr B needed to take to take out his pension. The letter gave a 
warning that the figures werent guaranteed and could go down. It also showed that the 
estimated amount payable after tax if the full fund value was taken as a one-off payment 
subject to income tax was £18,323.50. The letter also included a form that needed to be 
completed for the one-off payment to be processed. The form also warned that the value of 
the retirement fund would be different at the retirement date.
Mr B completed the required paperwork to enable the encashment of his plans in late 
January 2020. Aviva said they received it on 30 January 2020.
Aviva sent Mr B his annual pension statements on 15 March 2020. These showed that the 
Former Protected Rights plan had a value of £16,179.29 as at 14 March 2020, and the Non-
Protected Rights plan had a value of £1,889.47 at the same date. 
Mr B contacted Aviva to chase the payment of his pension benefits in late March 2020. 
Avivas internal notes record that he had received confirmation of the amount he would 
receive by text message. The note also said that Mr B needed the money to live off. Mr B 
raised a complaint about the delayed payment at this point.  
Aviva issued their final response to the first complaint on 2 April 2020. They upheld the 
complaint that Mr B was unhappy with the processing delays that had affected his claim. And 
that they hadnt provided him with accurate timescales. They offered £50 compensation to 
say sorry for the inconvenience the delay had caused. They also confirmed that the claim 
had been paid on 1 April 2020. 
Mr B was unhappy with the response so he complained again on 3 April 2020. He felt he 
should have received £18,777.00 after tax, instead of the £14,179.22 hed been paid. He 
also said that hed not been called by Avivas offshore contact centre. Mr B felt that the 16 
January 2020 letter was a legal document that bound Aviva to the figures it included. 
Aviva called Mr B to discuss his complaint on 6 April 2020. They said theyd processed the 
final value of Mr Bs payment correctly. And that their overseas call centre had been in 
lockdown during the time Mr B had expected a call from them. 
Mr B said he wouldnt have accepted the reduced payment if hed known. He said he 
wouldve stopped the process. 
Aviva issued their final response to the new complaint  which this decision covers - on 2 
June 2020. They said that the retirement illustrations that theyd issued on 16 January 2020 
werent guaranteed. And that theyd confirmed that the final value would be calculated on 
receipt of all of their encashment requirements. They said theyd also stated that the value 
may go down. Aviva said that they hadnt been able to calculate the final value until the 
minimum retirement age had been reached. And said that the value had fallen between the 
quote stage and the payment stage due to changes in market conditions. Aviva also said 
that although they normally inform customers when a fund value has fallen by 10% or more, 
there was no legal requirement for them to do so. And the pack they issued didnt promise 
this. They confirmed that the value theyd paid was correct. And that they couldnt pay the 16 
January 2020 value as Mr B had been ineligible to take his retirement benefits at that point. 
They said that their subsequent delays didnt cause any loss in value.
Mr B asked Aviva some further questions. They replied on 17 June 2020. They said the only 
record they had of a call being made was on 19 March 2020, before their overseas call 
centre went on lockdown. They said there was no recording of the call. But that their notes 
showed that theyd told Mr B the gross amounts for both parts of the policy. They said these 
were £1,887.33 and £16,179.29, totalling £18,066.62 gross, and that these figures were the 
basis for the amount actually paid (£14,180.22) on 1 April 2020. And they said that Mr B had 
confirmed that he still wanted to proceed with the encashment. Aviva said that no call was 
made when the claim was paid, as the contact centre was in lockdown at that time. 
Mr B made further enquiries of Aviva in July and August 2020, but their position didnt 
change. They said there was no evidence to support Mr Bs claim that theyd said theyd pay 
over £18,000 into his account. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service in September 2020. He said he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the withdrawal if hed known he was going to lose so much money. He was 
also unhappy that although Aviva would normally contact a customer if the value of their 
pension plan had fallen by 10% or more, they hadnt contacted him. Although he 
acknowledged theyd told him there was no legal requirement for them to do so.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld as she felt the 
correct value had been paid to Mr B. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that the correct value hadnt been paid to him. 
This was because Aviva had received all of their requirements by the end of January 2020. 
Therefore he didnt understand why the funds were only paid to him on 1 April 2020. 
Our investigator asked Aviva to confirm when theyd received all of their requirements and 
why the claim wasnt paid until 1 April 2020. She also asked them to confirm how theyd 
valued Mr Bs policy. 
Aviva confirmed that they received Mr Bs final requirements on 30 January 2020. But that his retirement date was not until mid-March 2020, which is when the policy was valued. They 
said that once the policy ended they referred it to their actuaries to confirm the final value. 
But that they couldnt complete the payment within their usual 10 working days standard due 
to the Covid-19 lockdown within the UK and India. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will disappoint Mr B. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr B said he wouldnt have gone ahead with the withdrawal if hed known the amount he 
would receive was going to be so different from that detailed in the 16 January 2020 letters. 
He was also unhappy that Aviva hadnt contacted him to tell him the value of his pension 
plan had fallen by 10% or more. 
Should Aviva have contacted Mr B to let him know the value of his pension plan had fallen?
Mr B said he wouldve stopped the process if Aviva had let him know the value he was going 
to receive had reduced by the amount that it did. 
Aviva said that they do normally call their customers before payments are made if the values 
fall by more than 10%. But that there was no legal requirement for them to do so. And the 
pack they issued to Mr B hadnt promised that they would do this.
Ive carefully considered what both parties have said, and the evidence provided. While I 
understand why Mr B is frustrated that Aviva didnt alert him to the value of his funds falling 
by more than 10%, I agree with Aviva that there was no legal requirement for them to do so. 
I also acknowledge that they hadnt committed to Mr B that they would provide such a 
warning. 
The evidence also suggests that Mr B was told the gross amounts he would receive during 
the 19 March 2020 call. Im unable to confirm this for myself as the call wasnt recorded. But 
Aviva said that during the call Mr B was told that he would receive £1,887.33 and 
£16,179.29, totalling £18,066.62, gross. And they said that Mr B had confirmed that he still 
wanted to proceed with the encashment. Although I havent been able to listen to this call, I 
consider that on balance of probabilities, it did take place, and that the numbers that Aviva 
said were quoted are correct. I say this because Mr B told this service that he had a call from 
Aviva telling him: that £18.066.62 was going to paid into my bank and did I still want to go 
ahead with taking out my fund. Based on what both parties have said, it seems most likely 
that Mr B incorrectly understood that the payments being quoted were net of tax, when in 
fact they were gross of tax. The actual after-tax payment that was made was based on these 
gross numbers. From what Ive seen, Mr B couldve broadly checked these numbers with 
those quoted in his annual pension statements as these were based on values from around 
the same date. These showed that the gross amount of the pension plans was £18,068.76 
(£16,279.29 and £1,889.47). I consider that as Mr B had this information as well as the 
information from the phone call, he couldve realised that the number hed been quoted was 
before tax. 
As Ive seen that Aviva did tell Mr B the actual gross amounts he would get if he continued 
with the withdrawal, and because Mr B couldve checked those numbers against other information he had, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Aviva responsible for Mr 
B completing the withdrawal despite the encashment value being lower than hed expected.
Ill now look at whether Aviva paid Mr B the correct value at the right time.
Was the correct value paid and should the payment have been made earlier?
Mr B said he was expecting £18.066.62 to be paid into his bank account after Aviva had 
called him on 19 March 2020. But that when he checked his bank account, only a little over 
£14,000 had been paid in. When he asked Aviva what had happened he said Aviva told him 
his funds had fallen in value because of Covid-19. 
Mr Bs also said that hed provided Aviva with all of the documentation they needed to 
process his claim on 30 January 2020. Therefore they shouldve paid his claim earlier than 
they did.
Aviva said that they paid Mr Bs claim on 1 April 2020. They paid £18,066.62 gross, and 
deducted £3,886.40 tax, So Mr B received a net amount of £14,180.22. 
Aviva confirmed that although theyd received Mr Bs final requirements on 30 January 2020, 
they couldnt provide a final value for his policy until he reached his retirement date in mid-
March 2020. They confirmed that their actuaries had confirmed the final value when Mr B 
reached that date. 
Aviva say that they couldnt have paid the claim much earlier. They paid the claim 12 
working days after Mr B first became eligible for the payment. Although this was outside of 
the usual 10 working days they aimed for, the slight delay was the result of difficult and 
different working conditions due to Covid-19. 
From Avivas file notes, I understand that Mr B had been very clear with Aviva that he 
needed the payment to be made within the tax year. Ive also seen that Mr B didnt consider 
that Covid-19 was a reasonable excuse not to continue making payments on time. I note that 
the payment was made within the tax year, on 1 April 2020. 
While I acknowledge that Mr B didnt accept this rationale, Aviva told him that in order to 
minimise the spread of the virus they had fewer people in their offices. And that this meant 
they were focussing on their vulnerable customers and those requiring payments from their 
plans. This service considers that there were valid reasons for short delays to processes at 
the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, although Aviva took two working days longer 
than usual to process the claim, they still met Mr Bs request of completing the payment in 
the correct tax year. And I consider that the two-day delay was reasonable under the 
circumstances.
I acknowledge that Mr B felt that the retirement illustrations dated 16 January 2020 
contained final figures that were legally binding on Aviva. But that isnt the case. Aviva 
couldnt provide a final value until Mr B had reached his retirement date, regardless of when 
he provided all of the relevant claim documentation. The figures shown in the 16 January 
2020 letters came with various written warnings. For example, on page 1 of the letter it said:
Remember  These figures are not guaranteed and will change.
And on page 2: 
Remember  The value of your plan can go down as well as up and you could get back less 
than you invest.So, from what Ive seen, the values shown in these letters were clearly never guaranteed. 
In their final response letter, Aviva confirmed that the final value would be calculated on 
receipt of all of their requirements. They also confirmed that the value may go down. Aviva 
went on to explain that they were unable to calculate the final value until the minimum 
retirement age had been reached. As our investigator has already stated, this is the same 
with any other pension provider as its a statutory requirement. 
The period between Mr B providing the required documentation for his claim and actually 
becoming eligible for his claim was a very volatile one for financial markets due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. So unfortunately, Mr Bs pension plan values fell between the quote stage and 
the payment stage as markets fell. I cant hold Aviva responsible for this fall in value as Mr 
Bs pension plans value was directly linked to the value of the assets he held. When these 
fell, so did the value of his pension plans.
Based on all the evidence, Im sorry Mr B had to wait to encash his pension, and that the 
wait corresponded with a period when financial markets fell in value. But Im satisfied that 
Aviva paid Mr B the correct value. Im also satisfied that they couldnt have paid it much 
earlier than they did.
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt agree that Aviva arent responsible for his financial loss. But 
Ive found no evidence to hold them responsible for it.
Having carefully considered all the evidence, Im satisfied that although Mr Bs payment was 
made two days later than it shouldve been, this was due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic. And I consider that a relatively short delay such as this was reasonable under the 
circumstances. Im also satisfied that Aviva paid Mr B the correct value. I also consider that 
Aviva did tell Mr B the gross amount he would receive, and that they gave him the option to 
change his mind, before they made the payment. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman