DRN-4519039
The complaint
Mr C complains Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company (Chaucer) 
delayed settling a fire damage claim under a Let Property insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2023 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The claim journey 
A property Mr C rents to tenants suffered fire damage in early July 2022. He raised a claim 
with Chaucer on 18 July 2022. Mr C lives abroad so he appointed a loss assessor to handle 
the claim, and Chaucer appointed Davies Group. 
Davies Group said a loss adjuster would attend Mr Cs property in August 2022, but that 
didnt go ahead due to an IT system outage. This resulted in Mr C calling from abroad, and 
his loss assessor chasing for information and things to happen. A loss adjuster did attend 
later, in September 2022, and following issues with Mr C being potentially underinsured, and 
further validation being required over costs, the claim was settled on 24 November 2022. 
Davies Group were responsible for the initial delays. However, once the loss adjuster visited 
the property, Im satisfied the claim was handled reasonably. As mentioned above, Davies 
Group had to revert back to Chaucer given the potential issue with underinsurance, and a 
further quote was requested from Mr Cs loss assessor due to costs within their initial quote 
being considered high. Its reasonable for an insurer to take steps to validate a claim and 
costs prior to accepting and settling a claim, and this can take time. 
I acknowledge Mr C was left chasing, but I also note much of the claim correspondence was 
between Mr Cs loss assessor, and Davies Group, who had to contact Chaucer. I appreciate 
though here there was a delay of roughly one month at the beginning of the claim which 
would have been frustrating for Mr C. Chaucer considered the impact on Mr C and paid him 
£100 compensation. I currently find that was fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. I say 
this because much of the chasing was done by Mr Cs loss assessor which would have 
somewhat mitigated the impact on Mr C. 
Therefore, I currently dont intend on requiring Chaucer to increase the compensation here. 
Loss of rent and maintenance costs 
Mr C says the fire damage resulted in tenants moving out because they decided they 
couldnt live there anymore. I think thats reasonable given the photos of damage Ive seen  
damage was caused to the windows and front door so there could have been a security 
concern. The tenants paid the rent until mid-August 2022. Mr C says they were paying £700 
per month. 
Mr C says the delays in the claim being progressed meant he couldnt rent the property to 
tenants. And prospective tenants interested in the property didnt go ahead given the 
damage remained outstanding for some time. When tenants did move in, he says he had to 
discount the rent by £100 per month while repair works were ongoing. New tenants were 
said to have moved in on 30 November 2022. 
So, between 15 August 2022 to 30 November 2022 the property wasnt tenanted. Mr C says 
during this time the walls and smoke damage was treated, and he had to paint and clear the 
garden  incurring maintenance costs he otherwise wouldnt have done had tenants been in 
situ. Mr C wants Chaucer to cover these costs, the loss of rent, and the discounted £100 he 
lost out on. 
Ive considered what the policy says in relation to loss of rent. Under the buildings section, it 
says: 
10 Loss of Rental Income 
The loss of Rental Income if the Property insured under the Buildings section is damaged 
during the Period of Insurance and as a result a Tenant is not able to occupy the Property 
We will pay You: 
1. The difference between Your Rental Income as stated in the Tenancy Agreement 
in force immediately before the date of the damage insured by this section and any 
lower amount You accept from a Tenant during the period of repair. 
The property was used as a private rental for working professionals and the tenancy was 
provided on a standard short-term agreement. It seems all parties agree Mr C had tenants in 
situ prior to the insured event. And, due to the insured event (fire damage), the tenants 
moved out as they couldnt live there any longer. The loss adjuster appointed by Davies 
Group also reported the tenants moved out due to the fire damage as they didnt feel safe. 
So, I think its reasonable to conclude the tenants more likely than not would have remained 
in situ had the insured event not occurred. Therefore, I currently think the loss of rent section 
of the policy should have responded to Mr Cs claim. 
Im aware Chaucers final response letter from December 2022 doesnt make comment on 
the loss of rent aspect of the claim. But Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to include this 
point in my decision for consideration given both Mr C and his loss assessor informed 
Davies Group several times about the loss of rent concern prior to the final response letter. 
The tenancy agreement we have on file was provided to Davies Group by Mr Cs loss 
assessor. This sets out this agreement was a six-month fixed term contract which 
commenced on 18 September 2020 until 17 March 2021. And the total rent payable was 
£550  not £700 Mr C claims. 
The policy says loss of rent is the amount stated in the tenancy agreement in force 
immediately before the date of the damage insured by section one. Therefore, Mr C will 
need to provide a copy of the tenancy agreement that was in force during the time the claim 
incident occurred in order for this section of the policy to respond. 
Mr C also says he discounted the rent by £100 when new tenants moved in on 30 November 
2022. Thats because repairs were ongoing. Again, Ive not seen a copy of the tenancy agreement that was in place with the new tenant showing the date the tenancy started, and 
evidence it was discounted by £100. The policy says Chaucer will also pay any lower 
amount accepted from a tenant during the period of repair. 
So, in concluding, I currently intend to require Chaucer to cover Mr Cs loss of rent between 
the period of 15 August 2022 when the tenants moved out due to the fire damage, to           
30 November 2022 when the new tenants moved in at a rate of £100 less due to the need 
for ongoing repairs. 
However, Mr C will need to evidence the previous tenancy agreement that was in place with 
the tenants that moved out due to the fire. He will also need to evidence the new tenancy 
agreement included a £100 reduction in the rent while repairs were ongoing. He will also 
need to provide evidence of the date repair works commenced and were completed. Thats 
because Id only expect Chaucer to cover the shortfall in rent between the period of repairs 
only, to their completion. 
Mr C also requested Chaucer reimburse maintenance costs he incurred, such as works in 
the garden that became overgrown while the property was empty. But the property in my 
view was always going to have a period of unoccupancy while works were underway, and 
this was the result of the claim incident as opposed to delays caused by Chaucer. Therefore, 
I currently dont intend to require Chaucer to reimburse these maintenance costs back to   
Mr C. 
My provisional decision 
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I 
intend to require Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to: 
Cover Mr Cs loss of rent between 15 August 2022 to 29 November 2022 subject to 
Mr C providing a tenancy agreement covering the period when the claim-incident 
occurred. This needs to show the amount in rent he was receiving during this period. 
Cover any lower amount Mr C accepted from the new tenants from 30 November 
2022 during the period of repairs. This is also subject to Mr C providing evidence of 
the new tenancy agreement showing a £100 reduction in rent to reflect the discount 
to tenants while repairs were undertaken. Mr C must also provide evidence to show 
when the repair works started and completed, and Chaucer should only cover the 
difference in rent up to the period repairs were completed. 
Include 8% simple interest on the loss of rent settlement, from the date the buildings 
claim was settled, to the date of settlement. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Chaucer said it didnt have any further comments to make. Mr C didnt respond to my 
provisional decision within the deadline set. Nor did he respond to a follow-up email sent by 
our Service on 11 December 2023 inviting him to provide any further comments. Therefore, 
its reasonable to conclude my decision on the basis Mr C also has nothing further to add at 
this stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Chaucer had no further comments for me to consider, and Mr C didnt respond, I see no 
reason to deviate from the decision I provisionally reached on 20 November 2022. So, Ill set 
out how the complaint should now be resolved subject to Mr C providing Chaucer with 
further information within a reasonable timeframe. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I set out above, Chaucer must now: 
Cover Mr Cs loss of rent between 15 August 2022 to 29 November 2022 subject to 
Mr C providing a tenancy agreement covering the period when the claim-incident 
occurred. This must show the amount in rent he was receiving during this period. 
Cover any lower amount Mr C accepted from new tenants from 30 November 2022 
during the period of repairs. This is also subject to Mr C providing evidence of the 
tenancy agreement in place showing a £100 reduction in rent while repairs were 
ongoing. Mr C must also provide evidence to show when the repair works started and 
finished, and Chaucer should only cover the shortfall in rent up until the repairs were 
completed.
Include 8% simple interest* on the loss of rent settlement, from the date the buildings 
claim was settled to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company to settle Mr Cs complaint in line 
with my instructions above. 
*If Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman