DRN-3799662
The complaint
Mr H complains that he incurred additional costs because Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) didnt settle a previous finance agreement promptly
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr H took receipt of a new car in March 2019. He financed the deal through a Hire Purchase
agreement with MBFS. The dealership agreed to accept his old car in part exchange, they
said theyd settle the balance on the finance agreement Mr H had for his trade in vehicle (Ill
call that agreement B). The new agreement listed a deposit contribution towards the cash
value of the car of £1,261.
Mr H took receipt of his new car on or around 6 March 2019 and he expected the dealership
would pay off agreement B at that time, based on the settlement quote hed received for
agreement B which expired on 18 March 2019.
Unfortunately, whilst MBFS have explained they sent the funds to the dealership and that the
dealership would have been in receipt of them by 11 March 2019 in time to make the
settlement; the agreement wasnt settled in time and Mr H had to pay part of an additional
finance instalment and says he lost out on a £100 credit that would have been due from
agreement B if it was paid on time.
Mr H says that MBFS are responsible for the failure to settle his old agreement promptly but
MBFS dispute that. They say the part exchange transaction was separate from the
transaction to finance the new car and that they therefore have nothing to do with it.
Our investigator agreed with MBFS, but Mr H didnt. So, the complaint has been referred to
me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view and Im
expecting to uphold this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) explains that finance providers are liable
for what they say and for what is said by a credit broker, or a dealership in this case, before
the consumer takes out the credit agreement (antecedent negotiations).
MBFS may say that here there were two quite separate transactions taking place. The part
exchange of Mr Hs old car and the establishment of the new agreement to finance the new
car.
The Court of Appeal considered that issue in Forthright Finance Ltd v Ingate (1997). The
judge decided there that the negotiations for the part exchange and the new agreement
where interlinked and could not fairly be considered to be two separate transactions, and
here I think thats the case too and that MBFS are therefore liable for what the dealer said.
I say that because I think it is unlikely Mr H would have proceeded with the deal had it not
been for the part exchange and that it was therefore an important part of the antecedent
negotiations. I think its likely that Mr H received a better part exchange value than he could
have obtained if hed sold his old car and settled the deal himself. I think that would have
been likely to have induced Mr H to proceed with the transaction where he wouldnt
otherwise have done so. And, as I think thats the case, I think the part exchange negotiation
cant fairly be separated from the overall transaction for the new car.
I think agreement B should have been settled more promptly and that by virtue of section 56
of the CCA MBFS are liable for that failure.
Putting things right
Mr H has explained that as a result of the settlement not being made in time he missed out
on a £100 credit he would have received for settling his old agreement early and that he had
to pay at least part of the next instalment. Given the passage of time hes not been able, as
yet, to quantify that loss but it seems there was one and that given some time Mr H will be
able to quantify it perhaps through bank statements and correspondence with the credit
supplier. Ive asked him to do so ahead of my final decision on this complaint. I think MBFS
should refund this money to Mr H. And, as Mr H has been deprived of the money they
should add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date Mr H paid it until the date this
complaint is settled by them.
I think Mr H has clearly been inconvenienced by this issue as a result of MBFS refusing to
take responsibility for it. It would also have been distressing to have been faced with an
unexpected bill, but Ive also taken into account that the financial consequences were
relatively small. In the circumstances I think MBFS should pay Mr H £50 compensation in
respect of the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
Refund the extra money Mr H paid towards his old credit agreement as a result of the
old agreement not having been settled promptly. Mr H will need to evidence thatexpense. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr H paid the money to the
date this complaint is settled.
Pay Mr H £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was frustrated by the delays and said that given the passage of time he wouldnt be 
able to locate the documents.
I explained to MBFS that it was understandably difficult for Mr H to provide evidence of the 
extra money paid but that I was persuaded it was likely to have been £100 (+8%). I therefore 
asked MBFS to consider that and the £50 payment for distress and inconvenience in 
resolution of the complaint and they agreed.
Putting things right
As MBFS agreed to the redress I suggested in my provisional decision that provisional 
decision now becomes my final decision on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
Refund the extra money Mr H paid towards his old credit agreement as a result of the
old agreement not having been settled promptly. Add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date Mr H paid the money to the date this complaint is settled.
Pay Mr H £50 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman