DRN-2560231
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lowell Financial Ltd wont provide documents to prove it owns debts it 
says it acquired in his name. 
 What happened
Lowell says that in 2015 it purchased five debts in Mr Bs name. Lowell sent Mr B a notice of 
assignment for each debt it says it acquired, confirming the new arrangements. 
Mr B requested proof that Lowell was the new owner of the debts it says it acquired and 
specifically asked to see additional documents, including the deed of assignment for each 
account.  
Lowell has sent Mr B various documents it says verify it now owns debts in his name but 
wont provide the deeds of assignment. 
Mr B complained, and Lowell responded to say it had sent him credit agreements, 
statements and a notice of assignment for each of the accounts it had acquired. Lowell also 
said it doesnt have to provide a copy of the deed of assignment. Lowell explained that when  
it purchased Mr Bs debts it took over default reporting responsibilities from the original 
lender. Lowell didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lowell had dealt with Mr Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B didnt 
accept and, in his response to the investigator, said he still hadnt been given proof that 
Lowell was now the owner of his debts despite asking for evidence on many occasions. Mr B 
repeated his request for copies of the deed of assignment for each debt and said the notice 
of assignment doesnt prove ownership. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B has made repeated requests for evidence that Lowell owns the debts it 
claims to have acquired in his name. And Lowell has sent Mr B various documents it says 
does that. For each of the debts, Lowell has sent Mr B copies of the credit agreement, 
statements and a notice of assignment. I understand Mr B doesnt agree this provides the 
proof hes looking for which is why hes asked to see the deed of assignment for each of the 
debts. Lowell, in turn, says it isnt required to send Mr B any further documents to show it 
owns the debts it is seeking to recover. 
Mr B and the investigator discussed various court cases that involved deeds of assignment. 
But as we arent a court, Ive focused on what the regulations say concerning the information 
a business has to provide to show its bought a debt in a consumers name. Ive also 
considered whether Lowell has treated Mr B fairly. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets out what the regulator expects a business to 
provide in order to show the ownership of a debt has changed. 
CONC 6.5.2 says Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned 
to a firm, the firm must arrange for a notice of assignment to be given to the customer as 
soon as possible. 
The FCA regulations dont say a business must send a consumer the deed of assignment. 
As the rules dont required Lowell to give Mr B the deeds of assignment, Ive looked at the 
other information it has provided.
Whilst I understand Mr B feels Lowell has failed to provide reasonable information to show it 
now owns debts in his name, Im unable to agree. For each account, Lowell has sent Mr B a 
credit agreement, statements and a notice of assignment. Im satisfied that its acted fairly 
and sent Mr B information that shows it is the owner of the debts in question as it claims. Im 
not telling Lowell to send Mr B a copy of the deeds of assignment for each of his debts. 
Mr B has told us hes felt harassed by Lowells attempts to recover the debts. But as Lowell 
has bought debts in Mr Bs name I think it has a legitimate reason to contact him to ask 
about repayment. I can also see that Mr B is unhappy that Lowell has continued to contact 
him whilst his complaint was being reviewed. But we cant force a business to suspend 
collections activity on the basis a consumer has referred a complaint to us. I can see that, 
Lowell has applied a number of pauses to its collections activity following Mr Bs complaints. 
Ive also considered what Mr B has told us about the amount of contact hes received from 
Lowell, but havent been persuaded it has harassed him. I havent found Lowell treated Mr B  
unfairly in this case. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But, for 
the reasons Ive given above, I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman