DRN-3187417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined their travel insurance claim. 
Reference to AWP includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 28 August 2019. The 
policy is underwritten by AWP. Mr and Mrs Js intended travel dates were from 17 March 
2020 to 23 March 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel. Mr and Mrs J therefore cancelled their trip.
On 17 March 2020, they submitted a claim to AWP to recover their cost for the 
accommodation they booked. AWP assessed the claim and declined it. It said Mrs and Mrs J 
had no cover for their circumstances under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Unhappy with AWP, Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld it. She said overall, while Mr and Mrs Js situation wasnt an event 
that was insured under the terms and conditions of their policy, the way the policy 
documents were presented meant the combined effect of the policy wasnt made clear to Mr 
and Mrs J. She didnt think that was fair and AWP should assess the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
AWP disagreed with the investigators findings. It said the policy clearly lists the events for 
which cancellation cover is provided. The circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js claim is not one 
of those events thats covered. 
AWP asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to decide is whether AWP fairly declined the claim on the basis that Mr 
and Mrs J werent covered for a change in FCDO advice.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS also says that insurers should give consumers appropriate information about a 
policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This should include an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain 
things  including excluded risks.
Regulatory guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair 
Treatment of Customers) from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the 
lifecycle of the service being provided. 
The policy terms and conditions and the IPID 
Ive first turned to look at the terms and conditions of the policy and specifically the 
cancellation section. Section D  Cancellation or curtailment on page 18 states:
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £5,000
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected journey before commencement 
or curtail it before completion as a result of:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders
of a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current
redundancy legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or
government security staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a
court of you or your travelling companion.
2. The death, serious injury or illness of,
a. a close relative, or
b. the person with whom you intend to reside at the holiday or
journey destination, or
c. a dependent business partner; of you or your travelling
companion which necessitates the presence of the person
concerned.
3. Hijack.
4. Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5. Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request
of an emergency service requires your presence.
Mr and Mrs J cancelled their trip due to advice given by the FCDO against all but essential 
travel. This isnt a listed insured event so, looking at this alone, Mr and Mrs Js claim isnt 
covered under their policy.
However, under the General Exclusions section of the policy (which apply to all sections of 
the policy) on page 13 and 14, it states:
General exclusions
 
10. You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit
of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation 
has advised against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer
And page 2 of the IPID confirms: You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel 
Advice Unit of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health 
Organisation has advised against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer
The exclusions applied to the policy means if Mr and Mrs J had travelled to their destination 
and had acted against the FCDO advice, they wouldnt have had cover under the policy at 
all. In other words, if Mr and Mrs J had ignored the FCDO advice, they wouldnt have been 
able to use the policy at for any claims.
So, the effect of the General Exclusion would be that they werent covered for the cancelled 
trip by following the FCDO advice. But if they had travelled and not cancelled the trip and, 
therefore, not followed the FCDO advice, they still would have been left with no cover.
Taking the relevant law, guidance and industry regulations into consideration, as well as 
whats fair and reasonable, I dont think the exclusion of cover from claims due to the FCDO 
advice was easily understandable from the policy documents or clearly highlighted to Mr and 
Mrs J in the IPID. Im not satisfied the exclusion thats applied on their policy relating to 
travelling against FCDO advice was prominent or transparent. 
Mr and Mrs J would have been required to read the policy terms and conditions all the way 
through to understand the full effect of the policy. I dont think its unreasonable to expect 
such an exclusion to have been brought to their attention in a more prominent and 
transparent way. The way Mr and Mrs Js policy was designed and presented to them meant 
that the true effect of the policy wasnt made clear to them. Also, the cancellation section of 
the cover doesnt list changes in FCDO advice as an exclusion so they would have needed 
to read the terms and conditions of the policy from beginning to end to understand the full 
effect of it. This created a significant imbalance between the rights of AWP and Mr and Mrs 
J. And this meant that this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract significantly in 
AWPs favour.
Overall therefore Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs J wouldve agreed to a policy that left them 
without any cover in these circumstances if theyd  understood the true effect. So, I think the 
way the information about the cover available under this policy is presented is not fair and I 
dont think AWP was acting in the best interests of consumers like Mr and Mrs J when 
presenting the information in this way. I dont this this is fair or reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Conclusion
Taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that AWP has declined Mr 
and Mrs Js claim fairly and reasonably. And it follows the claim for the accommodation cost 
should be treated as covered under the cancellation section of the policy.  
Putting things right
AWP should now assess and pay the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint against AWP P&C SA.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman