DRN-2487105
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire Bank) 
reported his debt to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr R had a current account with Yorkshire Bank since 2013. In January 2020, a direct debit 
was not paid because there wasnt enough money in Mr Rs account. A fee was debited to 
his account. This caused an overdraft of £4. Yorkshire Bank notified credit reference 
agencies.
Mr R complained. He said that the entry on the credit file was unfair as it was for a small 
amount. And it wasnt within Yorkshire Banks terms and conditions to do so. He hadnt been 
getting post as he had been in quarantine at another address. He couldnt get credit and had 
been rejected for car finance twice.
Yorkshire replied in June 2020. They said that they could charge the fee as it was within its 
terms and conditions. But they refunded it as a gesture of goodwill. They wouldnt change 
the entry on Mr Rs credit file as they hadnt made an error.
Mr R wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service in June 2020. Our investigators 
looked at what had happened. They wrote to Mr R in September 2020 and December 2020. 
They said that Yorkshire Bank had written 15 letters to Mr R about the overdraft, so he 
shouldve been aware of the situation. They were sent between January and April 2020, so 
some of them wouldve been sent before the Covid-19 lock-down started. Yorkshire couldnt 
have known he was at a different address, unless hed advised them. He also wouldve 
received text messages to say he was overdrawn, and these wouldve been received if he 
wasnt at his normal address. Yorkshire Bank were within their rights to advise the credit 
reference agencies  this was contained within the documents that Mr R received when he 
opened his account in 2013.
Mr R asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R is frustrated and upset by what has happened. And it means his credit 
record is affected. He hasnt been able to get car finance for example. I can also appreciate 
that he thinks that for a small amount of money, this is petty.
As background, let me say that Yorkshire Bank (like all lenders) have an obligation to advise 
accurate information to credit reference agencies. Thats how a credit database is built up so 
that all lenders can get up to date information to help them lend money. Lenders can only 
withdraw or change information if theyve made an error.
My role is to decide whether Yorkshire Bank have done anything wrong. Only then can we 
make them remove the entry on Mr Rs credit file. 
I can see that when he opened his account in 2013, he received two documents  the terms 
and conditions and one called how we use your personal information. The opening account 
mandate was signed by Mr R and said, I should read the leaflet carefully.by signing this 
mandate, I consent to my personal information being used in the manner described in the 
leaflet. The document said that We may also add details of how your agreements or 
accounts operate with us to these records including limits, balances, payment performance, 
any default or failure to keep to the terms of your agreement and if you do not repay in 
full and on time, credit reference agencies will record the outstanding debt.
So, Yorkshire Bank were within their rights to advise the credit reference agencies what had 
happened. 
Yorkshire Bank did try to contact Mr R about the returned direct debt, the fee charged and 
the outstanding debt. I have seen the 15 letters sent to him between January 2020 and May 
2020. Mr R says he was at another address due to Covid 19 measures after he had been on 
holiday. But as the impact of Covid 19 only began in late March 2020, he must have 
received some of the letters  there were five sent before lockdown (on 23 March 2020). Mr 
R says he didnt receive the letters, but Yorkshire Bank cannot be held responsible if any 
letters werent delivered. Also, I can see he was registered for overdraft text alerts, so these 
would have been received by him. 
I can appreciate how Mr R must feel about this  but I can only ask Yorkshire Bank to 
remove the markers from his credit file if theyve made a mistake. And I cannot say that they 
have in this case. So, I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman