DRN-3153158
The complaint
Mr G has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to switch his two personal pensions to a self-invested personal pension plan 
(SIPP). He believes the advice was unsuitable and he shouldve been advised to stay where 
he was.
What happened
Mr G met with Portafina in April 2014 and completed a review of his pension arrangements.
At the time, he held two personal pensions with A and C. These policies had transfer values 
of £6,403.66 and £3,523.72 respectively. The plan with A was invested in with profits funds. 
The plan with C was a former employers defined contribution plan and was held in the Legal 
& General Cash Fund.
A financial questionnaire was completed on 11 April 2014 which showed Mr G:
Was 47 at the time of advice and intended to retire at age 65.
Was married with two young children and was employed with an income of £14,000 a 
year.
Had two defined contribution pensions which he wasnt contributing to.
Had no savings or investments and was in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), 
which he paid £100 a month towards repaying a debt of £6,000.
Mr G completed a risk profile questionnaire which classed his attitude to risk (ATR) as 
balanced.
Portafina produced a Suitability Report on 19 June 2014 which recommended Mr G switch 
his personal pensions into a Novia SIPP and invest in a range of eleven funds, seven of 
which were unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS). 
The report also recommended paying £20 a month into an Aviva stakeholder pension. The 
consumer hasnt raised a complaint about this recommendation.
The Novia SIPP was opened in 2014 and invested in the eight funds, a change to the 
original recommendation:
 Lakeview UK Investments 
 Real Estate Investments USA 
 Strategic Residential Developments
 Aviva Distribution 
 Aviva Investment Distribution
 Invesco Perpetual Distribution
 Karnes Ethical Cautious Managed
 Standard Life Dynamic Distribution
After the initial charges were deducted, Mr G had £9,716.79 to invest. Just under 30% 
(£2,800) was allocated to the Lakeview, Real Estate Investments and Strategic Residential 
funds, which were structured products with fixed terms. The report noted that these were 
relatively illiquid. 
In May 2019 Mr G complained to Portafina that the switch to a SIPP was unsuitable and the 
investments werent in line with his risk profile. Portafina didnt provide a response to Mr Gs 
complaint, so he approached our service for a review.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think the recommendation to 
switch the pensions to a SIPP and invest in the recommended funds was suitable. In 
summary, the reasons for the investigator reaching this conclusion were:
In terms of the switch 
In 2008, the regulator issued a report entitled quality of advice on pension 
switching. The report provided examples of poor, compliant and good, examples of 
advice given since pensions A-day. Some examples below note what it thought 
would constitute unsuitable advice were where the switch involved extra product 
costs without good reason and when the funds recommended were not suitable for 
the customers attitude to risk and personal circumstances.
There appeared to be no direct comparison of charges in the suitability report and it 
only referred to charges being contained in separate parts of the document. The 
investigator noted there was an initial adviser fee of 5% and the pension providers 
annual management charges were outlined as 0.5% for a value of a fund with £0 - 
£250,000. In addition to this, there will be additional charges for each fund and other 
activities taken. In comparison the charges for As plan were capped at 0.6%, and 
Cs plan pension was charged at 1%.
It seemed the charges would considerably reduce the value of the funds. The 
Suitability Report stated the charges might be more, but the investment growth was 
intended to make this up. However, with such a small fund to start with, this seemed 
very unlikely. There were no guarantees that the fund would perform to a level to 
where it could make back the charges. On top of that, the investigator thought it 
would have to have improved investment growth where the transfer was 
outperforming the growth of Mr Gs existing plans.
Mr Gs objectives, such as greater fund choice, better investment performance and 
control of plans appeared to be generic. There were no documented specific points 
that show why Mr G had wanted to change his current set up, or why these 
objectives couldnt have been achieved by exploring different funds within his existing 
plans. There was a lack of detail explaining why the consumer wanted to switch, for 
instance it was stated he wanted to obtain tax free cash at 55, but there was no 
discussion to say why. The sale appeared to have gone ahead for no specific reason.In terms of attitude to risk
Portafina concluded Mr Gs risk level was balanced. The investigator didnt agree 
with this outcome, given Mr Gs responses in the risk questionnaire. For instance, 
stating he strongly disagreed with investing in the stockmarket, saying he looked for 
safer investments which meant lower returns, and it takes him a long time to make 
his mind up on investments. He also disagreed with the statements that he finds 
investment matters easy to understand, and that he was willing to take investment 
risk for bigger reward. While some answers supported a riskier outlook, the majority 
supported a very cautious investor. The definition of a balance investor in Portafinas 
own guide, states they typically have moderate levels of knowledge about 
investments matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with 
investment matters. They may have some experience of investment, including 
investing in products containing risker assets such as equities and bonds. These 
seem to be in contradiction to Mr Gs outlook on investment matters.
 
It didnt appear as if the adviser considered Mr Gs capacity for loss. These pensions 
were his only means of retirement benefits. He had no other assets and was in an 
IVA. So his circumstances didnt support the advice to transfer his pension to an 
arrangement, where there was so much risk involved.
The investigator hadnt been able to find any evidence to show that a pension switch 
was reasonable in these circumstances. After considering Mr Gs capacity for loss 
and attitude to risk, along with his personal circumstances, it appears the 
arrangements he was already invested in, were suitable for him.
In terms of the investments
Portafina had recommended the investigator based her view on the original fund 
allocation recommended in the Suitability Report. She noted that this wasnt suitable 
for Mr G, as he was invested in several illiquid funds and property portfolios. For 
someone who had no investment experience, like Mr G, these are not the type of 
funds that he should have been invested in. The level of returns on some of these 
funds showed the level of risk was quite high, which didnt seem to match Mr Gs risk 
profile. Having looked at the available evidence, the investigator hadnt been able to 
find anything to support why he was invested in funds of this nature.
When considering unregulated investments, the regulators good and poor practice 
report of 2010 sighted an example of good practice. This was the practice of 
restricting such unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a portfolio with 
ongoing monitoring. This wasnt reflected in Portafinas fund selection.
One of Mr Gs objectives was for greater flexibility but investing in illiquid bonds didnt 
match this need. 
The investigator set out redress and provided instructions for what Portafina needed to do to 
put things right. 
Both Mr G and Portafina accepted the investigators findings so our of file was closed on the 
basis that Portafina would settle the matter in line with the investigators findings.
However, Portafina has now requested that the complaint is considered by an ombudsman, 
as it has changed its position and doesnt agree the recommendation was unsuitable. Mr G 
has since requested the matter is reopened as Portafina has failed to settle the complaint. As both parties have requested that the complaint is reopened, we have agreed to do so on
this occasion. The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I think its firstly important to explain that under the Dispute Resolution rules, set out in the
regulators handbook, Portafina has an obligation to settle matters promptly and it has a duty
to comply with any settlement it has agreed to. I refer Portafina to the following rule:
Complying with awards and settlements
DISP 3 3.7.3.7.12R
A respondent must comply promptly with:
any award or direction made by the Ombudsman; and
any settlement which it agrees at an earlier stage of the procedures {my emphasis}
As can be seen from the above rule, once a firm has agreed to a settlement, it must comply
promptly. So its extremely disappointing that Portafina failed to settle the complaint in line
with our investigators findings. This has not only delayed the resolution of this matter for
Mr G but its also not in line with the regulators rules.
Our service would not usually reopen matters where an agreement has been reached by
both parties. But in this case both parties have requested the complaint is reopened, so we
have agreed to do so on this occasion.
Portafina has argued the recommendation to switch to the SIPP was suitable as it met 
Mr Gs objectives of consolidating his two plans, gave him the flexibility to take tax free cash 
before age 65, save on charges, get a greater fund choice and nominate a death beneficiary 
on any residual funds. It provided information which wasnt included with the original file 
which it said demonstrated the ongoing total charges within the SIPP of 0.778% were lower 
than the 1% charge Mr G was paying for his ceding schemes.
Portafina said that Mr G wasnt invested in UCIS funds, as the relevant investments were 
minibonds. Portafina highlighted the fact the proportion of the SIPP allocated to these funds 
was only 30%, not 50% as the investigator had stated. It also said the current value of these 
funds only accounted for 12.6% of Mr Gs pension.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, even 
after taking the change to the make-up of Mr Gs SIPP portfolio into consideration. So Im 
upholding this complaint on the basis that the investments Portafina recommended for Mr G 
were unsuitable. The investigator provided a full explanation of her findings, which I agree 
with so I see little benefit to repeating the reasoning here for any area which Portfaina hasnt 
raised a specific objection to. Ive only summarised the main reasons for reaching this 
decision, those being:
Mr G was 47 and there was no explanation why he needed flexibility to access his 
benefits at 55, when there was nothing to indicate he would be in any position to 
retire at that age.Mr G didnt have the capacity for loss or appetite for risk that came with a balanced 
attitude to risk; it wouldve been more appropriate for him to have been assessed as 
having a low/cautious attitude to risk.
A substantial share of the investments Portafina recommended as part of the SIPP 
portfolio were unsuitable. Mr G had no other pension provision, no savings or 
investments and was in an IVA set to run for many years, so shouldnt have been 
advised to invest in high risk, illiquid funds to any degree, as he wasnt able to 
replace any losses.
Mr Gs existing pensions were invested in low risk funds and he had no experience of 
investing at a higher level of risk. There was no obvious justification for increasing the 
level of risk for his pension planning.
Dealing with what I think are the main points of Portafinas arguments, Im satisfied that there 
was no obvious reason to switch his pensions into a SIPP and the recommended portfolio 
was unsuitable.
The annual management charge (AMC) of 1% Portafina quoted only applied to Mr Gs 
pension with C. The plan with A had a capped AMC of 0.6%. His pensions totalled 
£9,927.38, 64.5% was held with A (£6,403.66) and 35.5% (£3,523.72) with C. This means 
his average AMC across both pensions was 0.74%. Given the significant differences in the 
values of the A and C plans, this average charge was unlikely to change by any noticeable 
amount. In other words, there was no cost benefit in switching, as Mr G was paying slightly 
less under his existing arrangements. This was before Portafinas own fee of 1% was 
deducted from the SIPP, meaning he was worse off after moving to a SIPP.
Portafina says that Mr G wasnt obliged to pay this fee if he didnt want ongoing 
management of his SIPP, but I dont believe this was likely when Mr G had no investment 
experience and wasnt in a position to make his own decisions about complex funds which 
the business had invested him in. This wouldnt have been an issue if hed stayed with his 
existing schemes, or moved to a stakeholder plan with managed funds which didnt require 
any investor oversight.
Mr G had no recorded investment experience outside of his with profits and cash fund 
pensions, so I cant see how a wider range of fund choices would be of a tangible benefit to 
him when he lacked the experience to make investment decisions. In any event, his low ATR 
meant most funds wouldnt be suitable for him.
Portafina has argued the Lakeview, Real Estate Investments and Strategic Residential funds 
arent UCIS investments, but are minibonds, so the regulators guidance from 2010 wasnt 
relevant. It also said the level of investment in these funds only totalled 30% and was 
currently 12.6%.
Whether the funds are classed as UCIS, or minibonds, it isnt disputed that they are high-
risk, illiquid funds and arent appropriate for inexperienced investors with no capacity for 
capital loss. They shouldnt have been recommended to Mr G to any degree and placing 
30% of a low risk, or even a balanced, investors entire pension portfolio in these funds is 
unsuitable. Because of this, Mr G was exposed to a higher level of overall risk than was 
suitable.
The fact that the share of his pension held in these funds is now 12.6% isnt surprising, as 
its only a reflection of the poor performance and high level of risk associated with the funds 
compared to the rest of Mr Gs portfolio. It isnt from any adjustment or re-allocation of funds 
and even if it were, actions taken many years after the event cant retrospectively make 
unsuitable advice suitable. For the avoidance of doubt, I also believe that investing 12.6% of 
Mr Gs portfolio in these types of funds would be unsuitable for him.In summary, despite the changes to the allocation of funds in Mr Gs SIPP, I am satisfied the 
investigators original view was correct and the recommendation to switch to a SIPP wasnt 
appropriate. If Mr G wanted to consolidate his pensions, this could have been done by 
moving his policies to a stakeholder pension with a low AMC and a fund choice in line with 
his low ATR. For instance, by switching to the same Aviva stakeholder plan the adviser 
recommended Mr G commence paying £20 monthly contributions to.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr G's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment. The losses should 
be combined and the total is the amount of compensation payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Novia SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may require that Mr G provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr G would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr G in a clear, 
simple format.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman