DRN-4314176
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Chase Integral Limited gave him unsuitable advice to invest in the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund No. 8 through his SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension). He has also 
said he hasnt received ongoing advice about it. And he is concerned about the cost of the 
SIPP and fees paid to Chase Integral Limited.
What happened
I issued a decision dated 15 June 2023 setting out the reasons that I only had jurisdiction to 
consider the parts of Mr As complaint about him not receiving ongoing advice, the cost of 
the SIPP and the fees paid to Chase Integral Limited. I explained the part of his complaint 
about the suitability of the advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer Fund No. 8 through his SIPP 
hadnt been referred to us within the relevant time limits.
Mr As case was then passed to one of our investigators to consider the issues referred to us 
within time. He sent both parties his assessment of those issues on 20 July 2023. In 
summary, he said there was no regulatory limit on the amount either an adviser or a pension 
provider could charge. He said consumers were free to seek alternative advice or transfer to 
a different provider if they were unhappy with the amount of fees.
The investigator said in the 9 September 2009 suitability report the adviser had explained he 
was recommending a SIPP instead of the generally more economical personal or 
stakeholder pension alternatives as Mr A wished to have access to a wide range of 
investments, including unregulated investments and to be able to self-invest his funds. The 
adviser had explained the particular SIPP provider had been recommended because of its 
record of service and performance, which had been recognised through numerous industry
awards; the range of investments available; the ability to manage the SIPP online and review 
its performance; and its transparent and competitive charges.
The investigator said the adviser had provided an illustration from the SIPP provider showing 
the charges associated with the SIPP. The investigator said the SIPP was required to hold 
the unregulated Stirling Mortimer Fund, and cost wasnt the only consideration when 
selecting the provider. He said whilst other products and providers may have been cheaper, 
they didnt offer the functionality of the SIPP recommended or the ability to hold the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund. The investigator said that he didnt think the SIPP providers charges 
appeared excessive in any event, and the costs were clearly set out to Mr A. So the 
investigator didnt think this part of Mr As complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator went onto explain that although advisers could no longer be paid by 
commission after the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) of 31 December 2012, payment 
though commission was common prior to it. And commission arranged pre-RDR could, 
generally, continue post-RDR. The investigator went onto explain how commission 
arrangements and agreements worked between the consumer, the adviser and the product 
provider. 
The investigator said whether or not there was an obligation on Chase to provide an ongoing 
service depended on what was agreed between the consumer and the adviser. He said Mr 
As client agreement signed on 17 July 2009 said with regards to investments which we 
have arranged for you, these will not be kept under review but we will advise you upon your 
request. However he noted the suitability report dated 9 September 2009 said An annual 
review will of course be offered following the placing of the business.
The investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that Chase had offered Mr A any formal 
annual reviews. But that he also hadnt seen any signed agreement confirming Chase would 
provide these; Mr As client agreement which set out the service Chase would provide Mr A 
confirmed it wouldnt review his investments. 
The investigator noted Chase had said it hadnt provided annual reviews of the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund as it was a closed-end fund where changes couldnt be made until the end of 
the fixed term. The investigator thought that appeared to be a reasonable position to take. 
And although Chase hadnt offered Mr A an annual review of the fund, it had clearly provided 
him with an ongoing service. The investigator noted numerous e-mails had been exchanged 
between Mr A and Chase including Chase regularly sending him updates and reports on the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund. Chase also spoke to Mr A over the phone; met with him in person; 
and provided advice on other investments, protection, wills, trusts, mortgages and his 
businesses.
So overall, the investigator said although the suitability report referred to annual reviews
there was never any formal agreement in place for Chase to provide ongoing
advice. But it was clear that Chase had provided Mr A with an ongoing service in any event.
Therefore, the investigator didnt think this part of Mr As complaint should be upheld either.
Mr A said, through his representative, that he didnt agree with the investigators findings.  
The representative said, in summary, that it wasnt disputed that Chase provided Mr A with 
advice relating to his investments, protection, wills, trusts mortgages and business. It said it 
would be unreasonable for the ordinary man to dispute the advice he continued to receive  
particularly given how much he was paying for Chases services. However it said it would be 
unreasonable to suggest that Mr A would continue to pay for advice that was negligent, 
which is what transpired with the advice he received relating to the Stirling Mortimer Fund.
The representative said Mr A had confirmed he had no cause for concern given the constant 
re-assurances he received from Chase  notably through e-mail and telephone. Although he 
understood the value of the investment could fluctuate, he continued to place his complete 
trust in the adviser who specialised in that area  he continued to receive re-assurances that 
the investment would provide better returns and that he ought to wait it out. 
The representative said Mr A confirmed he didnt receive any annual statements or reviews 
and so was unclear about the status of his investment. It said Mr A didnt possess any 
investment experience prior to investing in Stirling Mortimer, and wasnt sophisticated 
enough to make the unregulated, high-risk investment himself. The representative said 
Chase owed Mr A a duty to ensure he understood the risks involved with the investment and 
provide continued advice in line with his best interests  but it failed to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
In responding to the investigators assessment Mr A and his representative raised a number of points which are largely related to the suitability of the advice surrounding the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund. I explained the reasons why I wasnt able to consider the parts of Mr As 
complaint about the suitability of the advice to invest in that fund in my decision dated 15 
June 2023. Ive considered jurisdiction again in light of what Mr A and his representative 
have said. But having done so, Im still not persuaded the complaint about suitability was 
referred to us in time. 
For the reasons I explained in that decision, I think irrespective of any re-assurances from 
Chase, Mr A ought reasonably to have become aware of the risks presented by the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund by 2014 at the latest. Clearly the value of investments can go up and down. 
Different professionals may have different reasonable opinions about the future value of any 
particular asset class or investment. Even if Chase was giving Mr A assurances about its 
likely future value, this was still in the context that the Stirling Mortimer Fund had fallen by 
around 25% by 2014. So it clearly involved appreciable risk to the capital invested. Although 
its value could have subsequently recovered, that doesnt gloss over the fact that it had, in 
reality, fallen in value significantly illustrating its exposure to risk.
For the reasons I explained, I think Mr A was aware of its fall in value and I think it follows 
ought reasonably to have become aware that it was exposed to significant risks  
irrespective of its future performance/any re-assurances from Chase.  So if Mr A didnt want 
an investment that was exposed to risk he ought reasonably to have become aware that 
there was a problem in 2014 at the latest. Therefore his complaint about the suitability of the 
Stirling Mortimer Fund was referred to us too late, and I cant consider it.
Chase provided information and reports about the Stirling Mortimer Fund to Mr A. And there 
were ongoing discussions about it over time; albeit I accept these may have been prompted 
by Mr As queries. Chase had also requested information about the fund from Stirling 
Mortimer itself over the years, and some of the responses were copied to Mr A. I dont think 
Chase was trying to mislead Mr A about the funds prospects. And although a formal annual 
review may not have been offered, its clear from the correspondence between Mr A and 
Chase that Mr A took an active interest in its position and it was discussed on several 
occasions in any event. I dont think the lack of an offer of a formal review was detrimental 
to Mr A in the particular circumstances.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman