DRN-2951741
The complaint
Ms R complains that she was mis-sold a finance agreement by Arnold Clark Automobiles 
Limited (ACA).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I have to consider if ACA did anything wrong in arranging the finance agreement. Ms Rs 
complaint against the finance provider has already been considered by this service and it 
wasnt upheld. I gather Ms R wished to use a different finance provider as she had made use 
of it before, but ACA offered her an agreement with a different provider.
Ms R says she wanted to be able to overpay and reduce the term, but the finance 
agreement she accepted didnt provide this opportunity. She says she was told by ACA that 
it did offer this, but that claim was wrong. In turn ACA deny Ms R was misled.
I cannot say what was said during the discussions so I must turn to the documentary 
material. I would add that given the importance of the early repayment element of any 
agreement I think it reasonable to presume Ms R would have satisfied herself that the new 
agreement did offer her that facility. As such I would have expected her to read the relevant 
portion of the agreement, even if she didnt read it in full.
I note that the agreement explains that part repayments will reduce the amount payable and 
a rebate of interest will be applied. It goes on to say that the monthly payment will be 
recalculated over the remaining term of the agreement. 
I think that is reasonably clear and while I understand Ms R says she relied on what she was 
told the detail of what the agreement offered was readily available. As the agreement does 
allow for overpayment it may well have been some misunderstanding as to what Ms R 
wanted and what the agreement allowed. It does allow for overpayment and reduced 
interest, but that does not lead to a reduction in the term.
In short, I do not have sufficient evidence to show that the agreement was misrepresented or 
that Miss R was misled by ACA. In conclusion, having reviewed all the evidence and 
testimony I cannot safely conclude that ACA did anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman