DRN-3661432
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice given by The Insurance Partnership Financial Services 
Limited (TIPFS) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Mrs S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S representatives have said she was cold called to discuss her pension.
TIPFS says Mrs S was introduced to it by another business. It says Mrs S was in touch with 
this other business from late 2016 and she had indicated she was interested in accessing 
benefits from her DB scheme pension when she turned 55. But while the other business 
could advise on annuities, it didnt have the required permissions from the regulator to 
provide advice in relation to the potentially transferring a DB scheme. So, it put Mrs S in 
touch with TIPFS.
I havent seen anything confirming how contact with the other business first began. But Ive 
seen a copy of a fact find completed by the other business in January 2017, confirming 
discussions between it and Mrs S seem to have taken place before the matter was referred 
to TIPFS. 
The fact find recorded that Mrs S was 54, married and that both she and her husband were 
employed (with Mr S also receiving an additional income from a pension already in 
payment). It recorded that they owned their own home with a small mortgage remaining of 
approximately £4,000 and had another loan for about £9,000. It also said that they had 
approximately £35,000 as joint savings. This fact find recorded that Mrs S didnt feel the 
pension shed receive from her DB scheme was particularly high and she was interested in 
taking a full 25% of the transfer value as tax-free cash (TFC), so was considering a transfer. 
It did note though that, in respect of retirement income, Mrs S indicated she wanted 
guarantees.
TIPFS says Mrs S was then referred to it, and a copy of the fact find was also shared with it. 
Ive seen copies of several TIPFS headed documents which were then completed, all dated 
2 February 2017 and signed by Mrs S, expanding on the fact finding.
A Retirement Options Fact Find was filled out. This reiterated Mrs S circumstances. And an 
option was ticked to say that Mrs S had not yet retired but was considering drawing some 
benefits from her pension fund. It was again noted that she had savings (described as an 
emergency cash fund), but the value was this time said to be only £10,000. It said, in Mrs S 
own words, that she was interested in taking TFC To repay a car loan, clear an outstanding 
mortgage and to extend our house to have a kitchen, breakfast room. And Mrs S said a 
mortgage had been ruled out as an alternative source of funds because of the increase in 
costs this would bring and because her and Mr S age would impact their ability to obtain 
one. Options were also ticked and selected from a list indicating she had no immediate need 
for income, wanted to be able to vary her income in retirement and wanted her dependents 
to receive as much money as possible if she died.
A Pension Transfer Attitude Questionnaire was also completed, which expanded on Mrs S 
preferences. This noted, again on occasion in her own words, she was hoping to access 
TFC at 55 but keep working until age 60. And she was interested in maximising TFC and 
drawing an income when she wanted to, at a level she chose.
Finally, a Risk Discussion Document was also completed, which said it was to determine if 
Mrs S had the necessary level of experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved. This said that Mrs S was aware the value of her pension could fluctuate and go 
down as well as up.
On 7 February 2017, TIPFS wrote to Mrs S, outlining its understanding of her circumstances 
and objectives  noting in addition to being married she had a son who was not financially 
dependent. It said that, if she transferred, shed be accepting a level of investment risk that 
was currently borne by her DB scheme. It said shed indicated she felt the benefits she could 
take at age 55 under the scheme didnt meet her needs. But said, as her adviser, it urged 
her to be aware of the potential risks. Mrs S indicated she understood these risks.
On 24 February 2017, TIPFS advised Mrs S to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension. It said that transferring would achieve Mrs S main objective of being able to access 
the maximum possible TFC at age 55, as the amount she could take (approximately 
£70,000) significantly exceeded what she could take under the DB scheme (approximately 
£35,600) by taking early retirement. She could also take TFC without having to begin taking 
a pension income and itd provide her the flexibility shed expressed an interest in - in terms 
of both how her pension income could eventually be drawn down and how any death 
benefits could be paid to her family. 
The suitability report noted that it was unlikely that the critical yield required to purchase 
equivalent retirement benefits at age 60 (6.42% if TFC and a reduced pension was taken or 
10.14% if a full pension was taken with no TFC) could be achieved in that time without taking 
more risk that Mrs S would be comfortable with. But this was based on her then purchasing 
an annuity giving her a set income and the funds no longer being invested. So, as Mrs S 
expected to draw her pension flexibly, rather than take a guaranteed income, and keep the 
funds invested beyond age 60, there was additional time for growth to be achieved. And 
TIPFS thought the growth she needed to achieve up to and beyond age 60, to allow her to 
draw an equivalent income to the DB scheme until well beyond her life expectancy was 
achievable. TIPFS recommended a specific pension with the new provider which it said was 
in line with Mrs S attitude to risk, which had been established as being cautious to 
moderate.
I understand the transfer went ahead in March 2017 and Mrs S took the maximum available 
TFC (just over £70,000).Mrs S complained in 2020 to TIPFS about the suitability of the transfer advice. She says she 
was persuaded to transfer because TIPFS said the pension fund would grow at a rate in 
excess of any growth that would occur in her DB scheme. But she felt TIPFS hadnt correctly 
understood her circumstances, including her attitude to risk, capacity for loss and investment 
experience. And she also thought TIPFS had recommended investments that were not 
suitable for her, and that should not have been promoted to her. 
TIPFS didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. It said Mrs S was referred to it after speaking to 
another company about taking benefits from her DB scheme pension at age 55. So, she had 
been looking at taking benefits before any discussion took place. It said shed explained she 
was a member of, and still contributing to another DB scheme, her husband was also still 
contributing to another pension as well as receiving a pension income already and they were 
both entitled to a full state pension. So, her retirement income needs would be met by her 
other provisions, and she had capacity to accept some loss. TIPFS said her objective had 
been to release the maximum possible TFC. And it said it had been clear in its 
communication with her she may receive a lower pension as a result of the transfer and that 
Mrs S had acknowledged these risks. So overall, it felt the advice to transfer was suitable. 
On the subject of the investments, it said the recommended personal pension was a 
standard pension plan, so it felt it had been correct to recommend this and disagreed that 
there were restrictions in relation to its promotion. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required TIPFS to pay compensation. In summary, she felt Mrs S was always likely to 
receive a lower pension income in retirement as a result of transferring. She didnt think 
Mrs S had a genuine need for TFC. She also didnt think flexibility was a genuine 
requirement. Nor did she think it was in Mrs S interests to transfer just to achieve alternative 
death benefits.
TIPFS indicated it disagreed. As TIPFS didnt accept the investigators view, the complaint 
has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of TIPFS' actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, TIPFS 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs S best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Mrs S representative says she was advised to transfer because she was told that shed be 
better off as a result. But the information Ive seen doesnt support this. 
The suitability report included a section detailing the existing benefits Mrs S was entitled to 
under the DB scheme. This said it was estimated that, at the normal scheme retirement age 
of 60, Mrs S could either take a full annual pension starting at £10,786 or TFC of £48,035 
and a reduced annual pension starting at £8,117. The annual pensions would continue to 
escalate in retirement but would also incur a reduction of approximately £912 when Mrs S 
reached state retirement age as a bridging pension portion of her benefits would cease.
If Mrs S chose to retire and take her DB scheme benefits at age 55, it was estimated shed 
be entitled to a full starting pension of £7,121 per year or TFC of £35,608 and a reduced 
starting pension of £5,480. These would again escalate in retirement but be reduced 
somewhat when the bridging pension ceased.
TIPFS also referred to the critical yield - the rate at which a new pension arrangement would 
need to grow by each year to allow Mrs S to purchase equivalent benefits to those provided 
by her DB scheme at retirement. It said if Mrs S took a full pension at age 60, the critical 
yield was 10.14%. And if she took TFC and a reduced pension at 60, the critical yield was 
6.42%. And TIPFS said it felt even the lower of these was not likely to be achievable without 
requiring you to take a higher degree of investment risk than you are comfortable with.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The discount rate published at the time of the advice was 
3.1% per year for 5 full years to retirement, as in this case. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs S 
cautions to moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think TIPFS was 
correct that the critical yield appears unlikely to have been achievable investing in line with 
Mrs S attitude to risk. And as a result, she was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower 
overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement.
The DB scheme benefits were guaranteed. So, if Mrs S retired when she turned 55 a couple 
of months after the advice, shed receive a guaranteed income. I can see that TIPFS 
obtained quotations to see what level of annuity, which would replicate the guaranteed 
income, Mrs S could purchase by transferring and using the cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) of her DB scheme to buy an annuity on the open market. The quotations noted that 
if she took the same level of TFC as she was estimated to be entitled to under the DB 
scheme at age 55, an annuity with escalating income and spouses pension  matching the 
scheme benefits  would provide a starting income of £3,995.88. Which was obviously 
significantly less than the DB scheme was estimated to provide. Which TIPFS again 
acknowledged in the suitability report as it said the annuity represents a significant 
reduction in benefits.
TIPFS has provided our service with some income modeller calculations, projecting what 
level of income Mrs S may be able to take on a flexible drawdown basis. One of these 
suggested that if a consistent return of 3% was achieved each year, Mrs S would be able to 
draw benefits equivalent to that which she wouldve been due under the DB scheme at age 
55 (TFC and a reduced but escalating pension) until after her average life expectancy. And it 
said in the suitability report it believed this was achievable. But achieving that rate of return 
was not guaranteed. And there would be little point in Mrs S giving up the guarantees 
available to her through a DB scheme only to achieve the same level of benefits while 
exposing her fund to additional risk.
Other retirement modellers have also been provided to us indicating that, if Mrs S took 25% 
of the fund as TFC at age 55, differing levels of fixed annual income could also be achieved 
until after her life expectancy. And those fixed incomes modelled were in excess of the 
reduced pension shed be entitled to under the DB scheme at age 60 if she took TFC (and 
again the TFC under the DB scheme was less than she could take through transferring). But 
those income levels were fixed, so would fall in real terms when taking into account inflation. 
Whereas the income payable under the DB scheme would continue to escalate. Those 
models were also based on achieving consistent returns of 5% or above. And I dont think, 
based on Mrs S attitude to risk and the rates Ive mentioned above that was likely.
Overall, Im satisfied that transferring was always likely to result in Mrs S achieving lower 
overall retirement benefits than shed have been due under the DB scheme. And from a 
financial viability perspective therefore, transferring doesnt seem to have been in her best 
interests.
But, given the statements it made in the suitability report that Ive referenced above, I dont 
think TIPFS suggested otherwise when providing advice. Rather it appears to have 
acknowledged this was likely, but it thought there were other considerations which meant a 
transfer was suitable, despite it providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
TIPFS says that Mrs S wanted to maximise the level of TFC she could take and also wanted 
flexibility in how her pension benefits could subsequently be drawn. And these were some of 
the key drivers behind its advice. I would start by saying though, TIPFS role wasnt just to 
recommend a course of action that achieved what Mrs S mightve believed she wanted. Its 
role was to understand her needs and advise her on what was in her best interests.Im satisfied that Mrs S had thought about accessing TFC from her DB scheme, before 
speaking to TIPFS. She and her representatives have maintained she was cold called and 
offered advice. But Ive seen evidence that she was in contact with another business before 
TIPFS. That other business couldnt provide advice on DB transfers. And the matter was 
referred to TIPFS. So, Im satisfied the contact with TIPFS was not unprompted.
In the fact find Mrs S completed with that other business, before speaking to TIPFS, it was 
recorded that she was thinking about accessing 25% of the fund as TFC. And, as I 
mentioned above, she seems to have restated this during fact finding when taking advice 
from TIPFS. So, Im satisfied that this was something Mrs S was thinking about.
That being said, I dont think TIPFS did enough to establish whether this was a genuine 
need. I can see it was recorded that the purpose of taking TFC was to repay the small 
outstanding balance that remained on Mrs S mortgage, around £4,000, as well as another 
loan of £9,000. Mrs S has disputed that there was an outstanding mortgage balance. But 
given the information that was recorded at the time, which she declared was correct, I think it 
was reasonable for TIPFS to believe there was a mortgage balance that was to be repaid. 
I havent though seen anything to suggest that clearing these debts was required or that 
Mrs S was behind with payments towards them. The information recorded indicated her 
household income comfortably exceeded outgoings. So, she seems to have been in a 
position to meet the required repayments. It was also recorded that Mrs S had savings in 
place. The amount recorded differs  with the initial fact find with the other business 
indicating these stood at £35,000 but the TIPFS fact find saying £10,000. But either way, this 
wouldve been enough to clear the majority of the outstanding balances had there been a 
genuine need to do so. So, it seems that clearing the debt wasnt a necessity at the time and 
that this was either a rather generic reason for wanting access to TFC or at best a nice to 
have.
Upgrading a car and completing some home renovations were also noted as purposes for 
requiring access to TFC. But there is nothing recorded in any of the documents to show how 
much money was required to address those other purposes. And Mrs S has said that no 
home renovations were completed. On balance, I think those purposes were mentioned 
during the advice process  not least as they were recorded as being things TFC was going 
to be used for, in Mrs S own words. But they again are fairly generic reasons. And without 
there being evidence that TIPFS had made further enquiries about these purposes, in 
particular why they were urgent or how much was needed, again I dont think that I can say 
these were a genuine need at the time.
And I dont think I can say therefore that transferring to release a larger amount of TFC was 
necessary. The suitability report said that Mrs S had told TIPFS taking benefits early under 
the DB scheme would not have met all of her objectives. But the reasons listed for this didnt 
include that the level of TFC was not enough. Rather it was just stated that shed receive 
less TFC under the DB scheme. While Mrs S may have indicated a preference to take the 
higher amount of TFC available by transferring, I dont think I can say she had a genuine 
need to do so. And, given that the primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders 
income needs in retirement, and transferring was likely to mean Mrs S would receive lower 
pension benefits, I dont think recommending a transfer for this purpose was in her interests. 
On the subject of flexibility, there is a little bit of contradiction in the documents Ive seen. 
The initial fact find with the other business said Mrs S wanted guarantees about her pension 
income. But the documents later completed with TIPFS said she wanted flexibility. On 
balance, I think Mrs S probably, by the time of speaking to TIPFS did express an interest in 
flexibility. But again, I dont think TIPFS did enough to establish that this was a genuine 
need.I cant see that TIPFS asked any questions about how much income Mrs S expected to need 
in retirement. It was noted she was considering taking TFC at age 55 and continue working 
to age 60. But it wasnt recorded what her income needs would be at that point. It was noted 
that Mrs S had some savings, was a member of another DB scheme and would be receiving 
state pension. But there wasnt anything recorded about the benefits shed be entitled to 
under the other DB scheme. And the information about the available savings was 
inconsistent. It was noted that Mr S also had other pension provisions. But there was nothing 
recorded about how much combined income they were going to need in retirement and 
whether their existing provisions, as they were before the transfer, would meet or fall short of 
that need. Or anything that shows flexibility in order to access varying amounts from the DB 
scheme that it was advising on, was needed in order to meet those income needs. 
TIPFS says Mrs S indicated she felt her other provisions would provide what she needed 
and this meant she was able to take a risk with this DB scheme. But without it having 
undertaken analysis to support this, I dont think it was reasonable for TIPFS to say that 
doing so was in her interests. And one of the statements Mrs S agreed to during the fact 
finding was that this DB scheme made up the majority of her retirement provisions. And, as 
Ive already established, Mrs S was likely to receive lower pension benefits as a result of 
transferring. So, as a genuine need to achieve flexibility wasnt established, I dont think a 
transfer to achieve this was in Mrs S best interests.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs S. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs S might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs S about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think TIPFS adequately explored to 
what extent Mrs S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs S 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to her spouse if Mrs S predeceased him. This benefit was guaranteed and it escalated  it 
was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was.
The lump sum the personal pension would provide wouldve also been reduced by any 
income Mrs S drew in her lifetime. The CETV may have appealed to her as a lump sum, but 
this was unlikely to be the legacy left through a personal pension. I havent seen anything 
suggesting Mrs S wasnt in good health, so there wasnt anything to suggest she was 
unlikely to reach at least her average life expectancy. The income modellers provided by 
TIPFS indicated that the remaining pension balance was likely to have been reduced by that 
point  in some of the scenarios significantly so. And that is before even accounting for the 
fact that most of those models appear largely to have relied on projected growth that I dont 
think was entirely realistic. Therefore, it is more likely than not that the value of Mrs S 
pension wouldve been significantly reduced by the time it was passed on. So, it was unlikely 
to provide the legacy Mrs S might have thought it would. In any event, TIPFS should not 
have encouraged Mrs S to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over her security in retirement.And if Mrs S genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, then life 
insurance couldve been explored as an alternative. But I cant see that it was.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs S. 
Suitability of investments
Mrs S representatives have said that the recommended investments were unsuitable for 
her. This seems to be on the basis of her circumstances at the time meaning she shouldnt 
have been considered suitable for a non-standard investment. 
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mrs S, it follows that to a large extent I dont need to consider the suitability of 
the investment recommendation. This is because Mrs S should have been advised to remain 
in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
But I would just say that TIPFS didnt recommend a non-standard investment. It 
recommended a standard personal pension product  a managed fund with a major pension 
provider. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs S. But again, 
TIPFS wasnt there to just transact what Mrs S might have thought she wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mrs S needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs S was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. While Im satisfied Mrs S likely expressed an interest in 
accessing more TFC, I dont think she had a genuine need to do so. And so, I dont think 
this, the added flexibility, which I dont think TIPFS did enough to determine was necessary 
either, or the alternative death benefits was worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
her DB scheme for.
So, I think TIPFS shouldve advised Mrs S to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs S would've gone ahead anyway, against TIPFS's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully. As Ive said, Im satisfied that Mrs S was referred to TIPFS 
having already had correspondence with another business about accessing her pension 
benefits. And I dont doubt that at the point of talking to TIPFS she was considering doing so, 
not least because she was about to turn 55 and Mr S, who was a couple of years older than 
her, was already drawing an income from one of his pensions. So, Mrs S was likely to have 
been aware that accessing her benefits was potentially an option.Im also satisfied that Mrs S had expressed an interested in potentially accessing the greater 
levels of TFC available through transferring. The difference in the amount of TFC available 
to Mrs S at age 55 depending on the different options was significant. Under the DB scheme 
she could access an estimated £35,608. But based on the CETV of her pension and taking 
25% of this, by transferring she could take almost £70,000  nearly double the amount. And, 
based on the fact finds from both TIPFS and the independent separate business Mrs S had 
spoken to first, it seems that this amount appealed to her  as I think it would to most 
consumers.
But while those headline figures wouldve no doubt been something Mrs S thought about, Im 
not persuaded that she wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
TIPFS advice. 
I accept that TIPFS set out the risks of transferring to Mrs S and she indicated she 
understood these. But ultimately it advised Mrs S to transfer her benefits, and I think she 
relied on that advice. While shed indicated a broad understanding of risk principles during 
fact finding  that the value of the pension could fluctuate, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Mrs S was an experienced investor. She had a cautious to moderate attitude to risk, was 
near to retirement and needing to rely on her pension benefits and this DB scheme made up 
the majority of her pension provisions. Im not persuaded that the appeal of a larger TFC 
sum wouldve meant she insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise she had sought, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. I think 
TIPFS recommendation wouldve carried significant weight. So, if TIPFS had provided her 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her 
best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice. And, I dont think she would have 
insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think TIPFS should compensate Mrs S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for TIPFS unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.Weve previously asked Mrs S whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
Mrs S would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before her complaint is settled. I 
consider its fair that TIPFS waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this complaint.
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mrs S.
I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance / rules to come 
into effect to determine this complaint. 
TIPFS must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon 
as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Mrs S retired at age 58. So, compensation should be based on her taking 
benefits at that age.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this calculation should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance / rules come into 
effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and TIPFS has 
received notification of Mrs S acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes TIPFS to pay Mrs S.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TIPFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off. TIPFS should give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs S asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Insurance 
Partnership Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
The Insurance Partnership Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs S any interest on that 
amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require The 
Insurance Partnership Financial Services Limited to pay Mrs S any interest as set out above 
on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
The Insurance Partnership Financial Services Limited pays Mrs S the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Insurance 
Partnership Financial Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman