DRN-3567824
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Chequers Wealth Management 
Limited (CWM) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with 
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He says he might have lost out as a result.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22
December 2017.
Mr P was referred to CWM by his wifes financial adviser in late September 2017. He met 
with CWM for advice on his pension in late October 2017. A fact find and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed. They showed:
Mr P was 46, married with one dependent child, and in good health.
He earned £52,000 per year. He owned his own house, had savings of £9,000 and 
had recently inherited a property worth around £125,000. His liabilities were £41,000 
which included his outstanding mortgage and car finance.
Other than the BSPS pension, Mr P had recently joined the new company defined 
contribution (DC) pension scheme with combined 28% employer and employee 
contributions being paid into it.
His wife had her own pension provisions. She had previously transferred her own DB 
pension.
Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as balanced.
His objectives were recorded in the recommendation report as:
Mr P didnt want to work full time after age 55. He wanted to either reduce working 
hours or find alternative part-time work. He didnt envisage needing a lump sum in 
retirement due to his inheritance, so could use flexible income in a tax-efficient way.
He was concerned steel workers had a lower life expectancy and so thought flexible 
death benefits would better provide for his family if he died early.
He intended to fully retire at 60
A recommendation report dated 7 November 2017 shows CWM recommended Mr P to
transfer his BSPS benefits worth around £535,000 to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP).
Mr P complained to CWM in 2020 about the advice he received. He said he complained after
he received a letter from the regulator telling him they believed many customers had
received unsuitable advice with regards to their BSPS pensions. He said he felt rushed 
during the advice process and signed all the paperwork in the only meeting he had with 
CWM.
CWM rejected his complaint and Mr P referred it to this service. One of our investigators
upheld his complaint. He agreed CWM had given unsuitable advice.
As CWM disagreed with this outcome, Mr Ps complaint was referred to me for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CWMs actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. CWM
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Mr Ps best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
was the advice suitable?financial viability
CWM ran a transfer analysis which showed that the investment return required to match the 
DB pension at retirement at age 60 (critical yield) was 8.61% per year if benefits were taken 
in full or 7.33% if taken at age 65. And CWM acknowledged in their suitability report that it 
would be unrealistic to expect the SIPP to provide a secure income which was equal or 
better than Mr Ps existing scheme.
So based on the above alone, Mr P would likely receive lower benefits overall by transferring 
which wasnt in Mr Ps best interest. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration 
when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. I considered below whether such other 
reasons applied here.
flexibility 
The main reason why CWM recommended a transfer was that Mr Ps DB scheme did not 
provide the flexibility Mr P required. I think its clear that Mr P was attracted to a flexible 
arrangement. He wanted to reduce working hours at 55 and was planning to retire at 60. So 
he wanted to use a small pension to supplement part-time income from 55, increase this 
when he retired at 60 and reduce it again when he reached state retirement age. However, 
Mr P was 46 at the time and so nine years away from being able to take any pension 
benefits and at least 14 years away from his planned full retirement. Whilst I dont doubt this 
what Mr P ideally would have like to do, plans can change over such a long period of time. 
And I cant see that alternatives were discussed with Mr P in a meaningful way. 
He was paying significant contributions into a DC scheme which by age 55 could have likely 
been used to supplement some part-time work income. Mr P also said he likely didnt need 
any lump sums prior or at retirement because he had received an inheritance, so he also 
possibly would have had some of these funds to use instead of accessing his pension early. 
I cant see that CWM discussed what income Mr P likely would require in retirement or how 
much he was looking to reduce his hours by at 55. So I dont think his income requirements, 
whether these were achievable and any alternatives how to meet his objectives differently 
without giving up guarantees prematurely were properly explored.
CWM mentioned his Mr Ps wife considerable pension provisions. However, these were also 
exposed to investment risk, so giving up Mr Ps DB pension meant none of their joint 
pension provisions were guaranteed anymore.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. Mr P had also mentioned that his father 
had died at age 79 and many other steel workers seemed to have a lower life expectancy. 
However, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally shouldnt 
be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. And the 
existing death benefits with BSPS were not to be underestimated. Mr Ps wife would have 
received a guaranteed spouses pension for life which would have been valuable if Mr P 
predeceased her. She had given up her own DB benefits, so this would have provided a 
guarantee income stream. Mr P was young and in good health and so more focus should 
have been on ensuring Mr P would receive the best possible retirement benefits over a long 
period of time. Summary
I dont think the advice given was suitable for Mr P. I cant see persuasive reasons why Mr P 
needed to give up his guaranteed benefits so long before retirement and likely end up with 
lower benefits overall. 
By choosing BSPS2, he could have retained guaranteed benefits which were expected to be 
similar to his existing benefits. And once he reached age 55 or 60 and had a better idea of 
what his exact retirement plans would be he could make a more informed decision at that 
point. 
CWM said the best option if Mr P had not transferred would have been the PPF. They 
referred to better early retirement and tax-free cash commutation factors which meant if Mr P 
retired at 60 the PPF would provider better benefits than BSPS. And their arguments are 
valid. For customers who wanted to retire early and wanted to take a higher lump sum, the 
PPF could have worked out as more beneficial than Mr Ps original BSPS scheme. However, 
as I said above I think given Mr Ps age his retirement plans were likely subject to change. 
And he might have decided later on to continue working for longer or to use different means 
to bridge the time until state retirement age. The PPF would have reduced his initial 
entitlement by 10% and it wouldnt have allowed him to transfer his benefits later on. So 
overall, I think BSPS2 would have provided him the flexibility he needed whilst not having to 
prematurely give up his guaranteed benefits.
If advised this way I think on balance Mr P would have proceeded in this manner.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have chosen BSPS2. So calculations should be made on this assumption.
CWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
CWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income taxrate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition CWM should pay Mr P £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date
CWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CWM
to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above,
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Chequers Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Chequers 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Chequers Wealth Management Limited pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr
P can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman