DRN-4478851
The complaint
The estate of Miss S has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
handled a claim. 
What happened
Miss S had a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. 
Due to serious ill health in 2022, Miss S was admitted and transferred to a private hospital. 
Aviva confirmed the hospital she was transferred to wasnt included in her hospital list and 
she would need to be moved to an alternative hospital. Sadly, Miss S passed away.
The estate made a complaint to Aviva. Aviva said the full hospital costs werent covered but 
it would pay costs in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Unhappy, the estate referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Aviva hadnt acted unreasonably or 
unfairly as it had told Miss S that she needed to be transferred to a hospital on her list for full 
cover. 
The estate disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments: 
Aviva should have done more to alert its members about the effects Covid-19 had on 
private hospital lists. Had it done so, Miss S would have chosen a more extensive 
hospital list to ensure she received treatment quickly.
Aviva failed to assist Miss S during a difficult time. It should have facilitated a transfer 
to another hospital and made an exception to avoid Miss S being exposed to 
overcrowded hospitals.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst Im very sorry to hear of Miss S passing, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered all submissions made by the estate. But my decision will 
focus on what I consider to be key. The background is well known to both parties and 
has been set out clearly by the investigator, so I wont rehearse the full facts here.
Miss S had a policy with a Trust hospital list. She was admitted into hospital in 2022.
The estate has asked Aviva to pay the full costs of the hospital Miss S was admitted 
to, even though it wasnt on her chosen hospital list.
The policy says: If you receive treatment as an in-patient or day-patient in a hospital 
or facility that is not: Included on your hospital list, or included on one of our 
networks, or An NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital but is recognised by us, we will 
calculate the average cost of hospital charges for equivalent treatment across all 
hospitals on your list and that average cost is the maximum we will pay.
Miss S consultant requested a transfer to a different hospital as the hospital she was 
in, wasnt accepting new patients into the private wing. Aviva said the hospital the 
consultant had requested the transfer to wasnt in Miss S hospital list and it provided 
details of other hospitals which were within her list. It also said it would consider 
information from her consultant about why the hospital he had requested was the 
only suitable location for treatment. Aviva said the letter provided by the consultant 
didnt explain why Miss S couldnt be transferred to any of the other hospitals on her 
approved list, and so it declined to pay the full cost of care. 
Sadly, Miss S passed away shortly after her admission. The estate has said that 
Aviva should have done more to assist Miss S in transferring her to a hospital within 
her list and should have told all policyholders about the effects of the Covid-19 
pandemic on the availability of beds within private hospitals. 
Ive considered whether Aviva was obliged to do anything more about the availability 
of private hospitals during the Covid-19 pandemic. I cant hold Aviva responsible for 
the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on private hospitals and it cant be held 
responsible for any non-availability. As there were other hospitals on Miss S list that 
may have been available, I cant say Aviva should have done anything differently. 
I note the estate says Aviva could have done more to facilitate a hospital transfer or 
make an exception to the hospital which was used but Aviva is under no obligation to 
do this. Instead, Aviva is expected to provide benefits in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and I am satisfied that it provided clear information about the 
hospitals which were included on Miss S list.
Aviva responded to the complaint and asked for an itemised bill to show the 
treatment Miss S received so that it could calculate the contribution it would make to 
costs. I think this is reasonable, but I havent seen any evidence that this has been 
provided to Aviva yet. Without a bill and the information it has asked for, Aviva cannot 
assess the amount of benefit payable. 
Overall, Aviva has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant ask it to pay costs in full.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Shamaila HussainOmbudsman