DRN-1615775
The complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank Plc treated him unfairly when he asked it to return a payment.
What happened
Mr S received £6,200 into his account. He went into his branch to request that it be returned. 
He explained that a friend had sent it to him in error. Mr S said that a different member of 
staff inappropriately intervened in the conversation he was having with the cashier about this 
and was rude. TSB said it needed more information about the payment before it would agree 
to send it back. It also requested additional ID. Mr S felt the member of staff was making 
things unnecessarily complicated. The branch declined to return the payment and placed a 
hold on it.  
Mr S raised a complaint. He didnt understand why the money couldnt be returned. He was 
dissatisfied with the way that hed been treated. He felt TSB had been deliberately difficult 
and unprofessional in discussing his business in the banking hall.  And that he wished hed 
never said the payment was a mistake. 
Mr S visited the branch again. This time with the friend that had sent him the funds. He also 
brought identification. Staff spoke to Mr Ss friend about the circumstances surrounding the 
transfer (it looked at her account statements) and sent the money back. Mr S felt the 
manager was both abrupt and unprofessional towards him during this visit. 
TSB investigated the complaint, but it didnt think its staff had done anything wrong. It said 
the information Mr S had given about the transfer hadnt matched the information on his 
account. Its position was that it wanted to fully understand the situation before debiting the 
account. It said it had a duty to carry out checks and balances. And Mr S had become 
frustrated and upset about what he was being asked to do. It felt it had been reasonable 
given the situation. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us - he said TSB should discipline the staff involved and make 
a donation to a charity. He said what happened would be on camera and staff would have 
noticed he has a health condition, which causes him difficulty. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. He didnt think TSB had treated Mr S unfairly.  The case is now with me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First off, Id like to manage Mr Ss expectations. Its not appropriate for us to instruct a 
business to discipline members of staff  thats really an internal matter for it to deal with. 
However, where theres been a mistake, well usually direct the business to resolve matters 
by way of a compensation payment and/or an apology.
Ive also noted Mr S has referred to a camera. I think hes referring to CCTV footage within 
the branch. As part of my review, we asked TSB to check whether there was any footage 
available of Mr Ss visits.  Im afraid TSB has said there isnt. So, this means I cant 
reasonably draw a conclusion based on what that footage might or might not have shown. 
Therefore, Ive looked to see what else is available to help decide the complaint. 
Its clear Mr S had no part in the deposit into his account. The payment was made in error 
and he simply wanted to make sure the money went back. I can appreciate why he would 
have been keen to get things sorted with minimum fuss. But I can also understand why the 
circumstances would have prompted TSB to make further enquiries. Mr S told it that the 
money had been intended to go to his friends mother but the information on his account 
described the payment as relating to a deposit for a car. There wasnt any other useful 
information next to the payment and it was for a significant sum. Mr S might have 
misunderstood the purpose of the funds but I dont think TSB was unreasonable in wanting 
to clarify the situation with additional information.
Unfortunately, it is the case that customers can sometimes fall victim to scams. There are 
also obligations on banks to carry out other types of checks too. While this was only a 
payment error, I can fully understand why TSB were cautious and wanted more information. 
Fortunately, Mr Ss second visit with his friend helped to clear things up and the money was 
returned straight away. This was all that was needed. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr S has described happened, the level of experience 
of the staff involved (including their testimony), as well as the wider circumstances at play. I 
can see why Mr S would have been frustrated, particularly given his health and even 
embarrassed at having to provide more information. It wouldnt have been easy for him go in 
again and deal with something that he thought was relatively straightforward. But overall and 
having weighed everything up, Ive not seen anything compelling which leads me to think 
TSB has treated him unfairly. Im really sorry to disappoint Mr S but it follows that I wont be 
asking TSB to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman