DRN-4260495
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was treated unfairly by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
when she tried to apply for a mortgage with her (now ex) husband. She says as a result her 
ex-husband is the sole owner of their house and is threatening to sell it, leaving her 
homeless.
Miss S asks that shes added to the property title or if this isnt possible Halifax pays enough 
compensation for her to buy an equivalent property.
What happened
Miss S was a council tenant and had a right to buy discount. Her husband moved into the 
property with her and they decided to buy the property. They contacted Halifax about a 
mortgage in 2018. 
Miss S says she was told by Halifax she couldnt be named on the mortgage as she wasnt 
working due to illness. She says shes now been told this is wrong. Miss S says she wasnt 
told that she wouldnt be on the property title. Miss S says if shed known this she would 
have looked for a different lender that would have offered a joint mortgage.
Miss S says shes been told that the property title and mortgage should be in the same 
names as the right to buy offer. Miss S says shes lost ownership of the property, the benefit 
of the right to buy discount and now risks losing the home shes lived in for about 20 years. 
Our investigator said there was no evidence Halifax told Miss S she couldnt be on the 
mortgage account. He said Halifax processed the application in her ex-husbands sole 
name, as requested by Miss S and her ex-husband.
Miss S didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service, to resolve complaints about financial 
businesses such as banks. Miss S has told us about her difficult situation. Much of this 
relates to matters that I cant look into, such as her financial arrangements with her ex-
husband. I cant look into any advice given by a solicitor about her being (or not being) on 
the property title, or whether the council followed the terms of the right to buy scheme. 
What I can look into is whether Halifax treated Miss S fairly when she applied  or tried to 
apply  for a mortgage.
The mortgage Miss S refers to was taken out by her ex-husband. Miss S isnt named on the 
mortgage. Halifax cant give information about the mortgage to Miss S. Halifax provided 
information and evidence to us, in confidence. Im satisfied that I have enough evidence to 
reach a fair decision.
Miss S says when they met with Halifax it refused to put her on the mortgage or the 
application as she was not working and was receiving disability benefits. The available 
evidence doesnt support this. 
Miss S and her (now ex) husband met with Halifaxs mortgage adviser. Miss S was present 
and contributed throughout the meeting, which was recorded. It was agreed during this 
meeting that the mortgage application would be made in Miss Ss (now ex) husbands sole 
name. I think Miss S was aware of this and agreed to it. There were the following exchanges 
during the meeting.
The mortgage adviser offered to look at an application in sole and joint names and said 
the application could proceed on a joint basis if this was important to them. 
Miss S said they should proceed in her ex-husbands sole name if this meant they could 
borrow more. Theyd previously obtained agreements in principle on-line which 
suggested this was the case.
The mortgage adviser asked if the council was happy for it to be in his sole name. They 
confirmed it was. Miss S said the council didnt care where the money came from.
I havent seen any evidence to support what Miss S has said about Halifax saying she 
couldnt be named on the mortgage account. Halifax didnt tell Miss S during the meeting 
that she couldnt be a joint applicant or that it had any objection to her being on the property 
title. In fact, the adviser said the application could proceed on a joint basis if this was 
important to them. 
Im not persuaded Halifax acted outside its own lending policy when it offered a right to buy 
mortgage in a sole name when the right to buy offer was in joint names. But even if it did, I 
dont think that means it treated Miss S unfairly.
The available evidence suggests Miss S was aware that the mortgage application was in her 
(now ex) husbands sole name and agreed to this. If she had concerns about this, I dont 
think Halifax could have known.  
I dont think Halifax treated Miss S unfairly. It follows that dont think its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to require Halifax to pay compensation to Miss S or take any other 
steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman