DRN-3366301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly refused 
them a further advance on their mortgage, leading to them having to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they moved to another lender.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage with Virgin Money. They wanted to borrow an additional 
£30,000 to carry out some home improvements. They therefore spoke to a mortgage adviser 
at Virgin Money.
On an initial assessment, based on what Mr and Mrs G said, Virgin Money gave them a 
decision in principle and moved their application to the next stage. 
Mr and Mrs G provided evidence of their income. Mr G is self employed and provided his tax 
returns. Mrs G gave Virgin Money her payslips and explained shed just been told shed be 
getting a pay rise.
Virgin Money wouldnt agree to lend them the amount they wanted. It said it wasnt 
affordable, though it offered to extend the term of the mortgage to see if that made a 
difference. 
Virgin Money said it wouldnt take into account Mrs Gs increased salary until it came into 
effect and appeared on a payslip. And it said that the income showing on Mr Gs tax returns 
was much less than he had declared.
Mr and Mrs G didnt want to extend their mortgage term. They didnt think Virgin Money had 
treated them fairly. Mrs Gs employer had given her a letter confirming the pay rise. And they 
said Mr Gs actual income was more than was shown on his tax return, since he took 
drawings from his trading income in a different way to how his taxable profit was calculated. 
So they complained that their application hadnt been treated fairly. They said theyd incurred 
an architects fees in the expectation their application would be granted. And they had to pay 
an ERC to move to another lender. They also said that a Virgin Money adviser had been 
rude to Mr G on the phone.
Virgin Money didnt agree it had considered their application unfairly. It said it had to take 
Mr Gs tax returns as the amount of his income. It said that their expenditure was higher than 
the estimates given in the initial advice call. It said it had correctly assessed the amount of 
money it could lend. But it accepted that calls with Mr G in particular had been badly 
handled, and it had delayed in progressing a subject access request. It paid Mr and Mrs G 
£275 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. So Mr and Mrs G asked for an 
ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Gs frustration; they were initially told that the lending would be 
affordable, and then that it wouldnt, and when they tried to understand why, they werent 
given a clear answer about why that was.
Ive reviewed what happened in this case, and Im satisfied that Virgin Money made a fair 
decision  but failed to explain it fairly.
Mr and Mrs G wanted to borrow more money from Virgin Money. No lender ever has to lend 
 even to an existing customer. But lenders are required to give fair consideration to 
applications  which includes following the regulatory requirement to give careful 
consideration to both income and expenditure.
Mr and Mrs G were first given a decision in principle. This is not an offer, or a guarantee that 
they will be offered lending. Its a preliminary step, whereby Virgin Money gives an indication 
of whether the lending might be affordable based purely on reported income without further 
checks.
Their application then went on to a formal discussion with an adviser, who went through their 
income and expenditure with them in more detail  and again, the lending appeared 
affordable, though this was based purely on what Mr and Mrs G said in the appointment.
The next stage was for the application to be formally considered by an underwriter, including 
an assessment of evidence of income and expenditure. And it was at this stage that their 
application was rejected.
The evidence provided, and Virgin Moneys checks, showed that the position was actually 
somewhat different to what Mr and Mrs G had said in the earlier appointments.
Virgin Money said that, when theyd estimated their outgoings, they had underestimated 
them. Their credit card balances and loan repayments were actually larger than they had 
said in the appointment with the adviser. 
And Mr Gs income appeared to be significantly lower than he had said in the appointment 
with the adviser. 
It seems that what had happened is that Mr G receives income from his self-employment, 
pays himself a salary out of that income, and then declares whats left as his profit for tax 
purposes. He wanted Virgin Money to take into account the amount he was drawing down 
and paying himself, but Virgin Money would only take into account the declared profit on his 
tax return.
I dont know if this is what Mr G is actually doing or not. But if that is how Mr G is treating his 
income, he might want to consult an accountant or tax adviser before completing his next tax 
return. Virgin Money is right that the whole of a sole traders turnover, less expenses, should 
be the declared profit  that is, before taking into account money paid out as earnings. 
Earnings are taken out of profit; taxable profit isnt what is left after taking a salary. 
In any case, however Mr G is treating his turnover and income from his self-employment, its 
reasonable that Virgin Money would only consider the profit declared on his tax return on 
which he paid tax. That is the income that hes told HMRC he is receiving and on which he has paid tax. If Mr G has received more income than that, its not unreasonable that Virgin 
Money wouldnt consider it.
Based therefore on the income Virgin Money was able to consider and on the true position of 
Mr and Mrs Gs expenditure, their application for further borrowing  or at least the full 
amount over their existing mortgage term  wasnt affordable. This was a reasonable 
decision that was open to Virgin Money to make.
The problem in this case, in my view, arose in how Virgin Money communicated all this to Mr 
and Mrs G. They spoke to several different people, none of whom were able to give them a 
clear explanation of why their application had been turned down. The final call, in particular, 
didnt go well. By then, Mr G was clearly frustrated, and to some extent let his frustration get 
the better of him  but that was not helped by the reaction of the person who he spoke to, 
which Virgin Money accepts was wholly unprofessional.
Virgin Money has paid Mr and Mrs G £275 compensation for this, and for a delay in their 
subject access request. I think thats fair. And since the lending decision was also a fair one, 
it follows that I dont think Virgin Money is obliged to waive or refund its ERC to allow Mr and 
Mrs G to go elsewhere. The ERC applies until the end of their fixed rate and covers Virgin 
Moneys costs if they end the rate early. Mr and Mrs G are not entitled to further borrowing  
they are entitled to have an application fairly considered. This one was, and if Mr and Mrs G 
are unhappy with Virgin Moneys reasonable decision that doesnt mean its no longer fair for 
the ERC to apply.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint and I dont require it to 
take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman