DRN-2475297
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt provide an online method 
for him to make a request to transfer funds from his credit card to a current account with 
another bank.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Halifax. He received a refund to his credit card account 
in March 2020. He wanted to transfer the amount of the refund from his credit card account 
to a current account he held with another bank. He says he tried to contact Halifax by 
telephone to ask for this payment to be made but there were long delays which meant he 
wasnt able to do this. 
He says Halifax doesnt provide an online method to request a payment of this nature. He 
had to use the postal service to make his request. He says it isnt acceptable for Halifax not 
to provide online methods to make this payment. He says Halifax sends electronic 
messages to its customers but doesnt afford its customers the same facility. He complained 
to Halifax about this.
Halifax looked into his complaint. It said it agreed it had provided poor service to him when 
he tried to telephone it. It paid him £100 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced. It said it had experienced issues with answering phones 
due to the coronavirus pandemic which meant its staff had to work from home. Halifax 
confirmed that the payment request had been processed at the start of April 2020.
Mr B says that Halifaxs response didnt deal with the point hed raised which was about its 
failure to provide an online method to make the payment request. He complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that our service looked at each complaint 
individually. It wasnt our role to ask a business to change its processes. We could consider 
whether it had acted fairly and reasonably. Our investigator said Halifaxs credit card 
statements did list ways to contact it including by phone, online and in writing. But he said 
Halifax didnt accept online requests for credit balances to be refunded. He said the reason 
for this was because Halifax needed to review each such request individually. 
Our investigator thought he couldnt reasonably say that Halifax should offer this facility 
online. He considered the compensation which Halifax had paid Mr B. He said Halifax had 
acknowledged delays answering phones at the time when Mr B tried to contact it. And, he 
thought £100 was fair and reasonable compensation for what happened. He didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. He said our service should be representing and protecting consumers. He 
said he wanted fair and accessible customer service that works, and which provides 
customers with a written record of what has been said.
Our investigator considered what Mr B had said but he didnt change his view. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B had received a refund into his credit card account. He wanted to transfer this to his 
current account. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Bs credit card account to see 
what they say about making a payment of this nature.
The terms and conditions dont deal specifically with how refunds can be transferred from 
the credit card account. But they do set out a list of the types of transactions that can be 
made and how they can be requested. 
I note that purchases can be made using the card or the card details. Transfers can also be 
made but only balance transfers and money transfers. Mr Bs request was not a balance 
transfer. Ive considered whether Mr Bs requests was a money transfer request. 
The terms state that a money transfer request can be made when the customer is applying 
for the card or if Halifax offers this to the customer. A money transfer request can be 
processed by phone, online or, in certain circumstances, by alternative means.
Having considered what Mr B wanted to do I dont think his request fell within the definition 
of what the terms and conditions describe as a money transfer. It was some time since the 
account had been opened and Halifax hadnt offered to provide a money transfer to Mr B.
So, I think what Mr B was requesting fell outside of the terms and conditions. But I dont think 
it was unreasonable for him to request that the refund payment should be transferred from 
his card account to his current account. 
As mentioned above the terms and conditions are silent on what should happen when a 
customer wants to transfer a refund payment to a current account. And, they dont provide 
for online payments to be made except in the case of money transfer requests. In all other 
cases the terms and conditions require payments to be made using the card or by making a 
telephone request. 
Mr B thinks Halifax should offer online payments from the card account or it should offer a 
facility to make payment requests online. Halifax doesnt offer these services. Ive also 
looked at the terms and conditions for its online banking. These state that customers can 
use online banking to access most accounts. It doesnt offer a facility to send electronic 
messages. The terms state that if the customer wants to contact Halifax, he/she can do so 
by telephone or by visiting a branch.
Having thought about what Mr B has said, Im satisfied Halifax didnt offer the service he 
wanted it to provide. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it didnt provide that service. 
Its not for our service to require Halifax to provide a service to Mr B which it didnt offer to 
him when he accepted its terms and conditions.
Mr B says our service should represent and protect consumers. Our service was set up as a 
scheme to resolve certain disputes quickly and with minimum formality. We determine 
complaints based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each case. So, our 
role is to resolve disputes fairly and impartially. We have the power to require a business to puts things right where we decide that its done something wrong. But I dont think Halifax 
did anything wrong when it told Mr B it didnt permit online payment requests to be made.
Ive also thought about what happened when Mr B tried to phone Halifax to request the 
payment transfer. Halifax has accepted that due to issues it was experiencing at the time, Mr 
Bs call wasnt answered within the timescale he could reasonably have expected. Its paid 
him £100 by way of compensation for the poor service he received. Its also confirmed that 
his transfer request was processed at the start of April 2020, after it received the request he 
sent it in writing. 
Having considered everything here, I think the actions Halifax took, as soon as the matter 
was brought to its attention, were fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman