DRN-4258774
The complaint
Mr M complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the settlement 
amount theyve paid him following the total loss of his car.
What happened
Mr M held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, in April 2023, Mr 
Ms car suffered significant damage following an accident. So, he contacted AIC to make a 
claim on his policy.
AIC accepted Mr Ms claim, and they instructed an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as 
H, to inspect Mr Ms car and inspect the damage. H compiled a report deeming Mr Ms car 
a Category B total loss, due to the structural damage it had sustained.
As the car has been deemed a total loss, AIC settled the claim on this basis. Initially, they 
offered Mr M a total settlement of £22,787.50, which was an average of two motor trade 
guide valuations they obtained. But Mr M was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M didnt think the settlement offer AIC put forward was a fair one, as he didnt think it 
allowed him to purchase a replacement car of a similar make and model. Mr M explained his 
belief the car was worth around £26,000 at the time of loss and so, this is what he wanted 
AIC to pay.
AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their original offer of 
£22,787.50 was a fair one, calculated in line with the policy terms and standard industry 
approach. But, as a gesture of good will, AIC advised they would pay Mr M an additional 
amount, taking the total settlement payment to £23,265 which was the highest trade guide 
valuation they had obtained. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought AICs settlement 
offer was a fair one, that fell in line with the policy terms and conditions. And so, they didnt 
think AIC needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his belief that the market value of his car was around 
£26,000 and he felt the online advertisements hed sent to our service supported this view. 
So, he maintained that the settlement he received should be increased. Our investigator 
considered this but explained AIC had used the retail prices obtained from the motor trade 
guides, in line with standard industry approach. And they explained advertised sales prices 
may be higher than this, to allow room for negotiations. Our investigator also explained the 
advertisements Mr M provided showed cars with significantly less mileage and so, they 
didnt think the prices advertised impacted the view they reached. Mr M remained unhappy 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I recognise Mr M took 
out his insurance policy to assist him both practically and financially in situations such as the 
one he found himself in. So, when Mr M received a settlement amount he felt failed to allow 
him to purchase a replacement car, I can understand why Mr M would feel as though the 
payment was unfair and that AIC had calculated this unreasonably. And because of this, I 
can understand why Mr M would want this payment to be increased.
But for me to say AIC should do something more than they have already, such as increase 
the settlement further towards Mr Ms expected payment of £26,000, I first need to be 
satisfied AIC have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied AIC failed to act in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, and standard industry approach, when calculating the 
settlement amount thats been paid to Mr M so far. Or, if I think AIC did work within these, 
then Id need to be satisfied that AIC acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr M held. They explain that, where a car 
has been damaged and deemed a total loss, AIC will pay the Market Value of your Car 
immediately before the loss. And the policy defines a cars market value as The cost of 
replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one 
of the same make, model, age and conditionYour insurer may use publications such as 
Glasss Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary allowances for the 
mileage and condition of your car and the circumstances in which you bought it.
So, I think the terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that any settlement Mr M 
received would be based on the market value of his car, immediately before the loss. And, 
that this value would be calculated using trade guide publications. And this is what Id 
expect, as it is standard industry approach, based on guidelines set by the industry 
regulator, for a cars pre-accident value to be calculated using motor trade guides.
In this situation, I can see AIC obtained two valuations from two different trade guides. 
These guides gave valuations of £22,310.00 and £23,265.00. So, AIC initially offered to 
settle Mr Ms claim using the average of these two valuations combined. But I note as part of 
AICs complaint response, they increased the settlement to £23,265, the higher of the two 
valuations AIC obtained.
To ensure this settlement was fair, our service obtained valuations from two further trade 
guides in line with our usual approach. And having done so, Im satisfied the settlement of 
£23,625 falls within the ranges the four trade guide valuations provided. So, considering the 
above, Im satisfied AIC acted within the policy terms and conditions when settling Mr Ms 
claim. And, that they acted fairly, in line with standard industry approach when doing so. 
Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr M Ive 
considered all the evidence and comments hes provided, including the screenshots of 
advertisements he found online. But I note for many of these advertisements, they showed 
cars either of different models or different mileages. So, I dont think these are reflective of 
the actual market value of Mr Ms car at the time of loss. And even if I thought they were, the 
market value of Mr Ms car is different to the retail price cars will be advertised for online. Retail advertisement prices are often inflated to allow the seller, whether they be a 
dealership or private, to negotiate on the actual sale price. And this is why it is standard 
industry approach for insurers to use motor trade guides to calculate a value, so insurers can 
ensure each customer is treated similarly in situations where they are due a settlement 
following the total loss of their car.
So, while I recognise Mr M will likely remain of the view that the settlement doesnt allow him 
to purchase a replacement car of a similar make or model based on advertised retail prices, I 
dont think this is the fault of AIC, or because of anything theyve done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman