DRN-2838843
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a 
subsidence claim under its Property Owners Insurance Policy.
E also complains that Aviva subsequently didnt offer renewal terms for the policy.
E is being represented by Mr L in this complaint.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents.
What happened
The events being complained about happened some time ago. As such there is limited 
evidence for me to consider. So where this is the case Ive relied on Es recollections to set 
out some of the key points for the background of this complaint.
E owns a property containing 7 flats, which was covered by a Property Owners Insurance 
Policy underwritten by Aviva. E says that when it bought the property it was assigned both 
the policy, and an ongoing claim for subsidence which had been started by the previous 
owner around 2002.
Both parties acknowledge that Aviva made an offer to cash settle the claim around 2006. 
E says that this offer was rejected, as the policy beneficiaries couldnt agree on the scope of 
works required. E says it then wrote to Aviva and instructed it to carry out the repair works 
instead.
In January 2019, a routine property inspection raised concerns about external cracks and 
movement in the structure. So E logged a claim with Aviva. Aviva turned down the claim. It 
said that any concerns relating to the original claim were out of time to be considered. And it 
said that it was most likely that the damage now being claimed for had deteriorated over 
time. 
In January 2020, Aviva then took the decision to not offer renewal terms for Es policy.
E didnt agree with Avivas position and referred the matter to our service. It said that Aviva 
had never paid the original cash settlement which had been agreed towards the repair costs. 
It added that Avivas actions in not renewing the policy had left it exposed to the full repair 
costs of the property. To put things right, E wanted its policy reinstated and for Aviva to fully 
investigate the cause of the current movement to rectify the problem.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded Aviva should pay the original amount offered to cash settle the claim, as long as it 
was satisfied it remained unpaid. And the investigator concluded Aviva should reconsider the 
claim to ascertain whether it was related to the previous cause of damage or not. 
Our investigator also said that the outcome of Avivas review would inform whether it was 
therefore reasonable for Aviva to withdraw cover for subsidence.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators findings. It said that given the age of the claim, there 
were limited records to show whether the claim was cash settled. It said that either way, E 
had either failed to get the original repair works done, or it had failed to pursue the claim and 
maintain the property. And in any event, Aviva maintained the position that any issues 
relating to the original claim were out of time to consider, so it didnt think it should do 
anything further.
E provided further information for our investigator to consider. It said the broker of the policy 
had full details of the original claim and provided an expert report from a structural engineer 
which it said validated the claim.
Our investigator reviewed the matter again and recommended the complaint not be upheld. 
They concluded the original claim and settlement offer from 2006 was out of time for our 
service to consider. And they concluded that Es report wasnt conclusive in showing 
subsidence was the cause of the current damage being claimed for. 
Our investigator also concluded that Avivas decision to not offer renewal terms was 
reasonable in the circumstances, given the increased risk the property now posed. And they 
said it would be Avivas decision as to whether it chose to review either the claim or its risk 
position.
E disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary, it said:
That the limitation argument doesnt apply as Aviva never concluded the original 
claim.
That it instructed Avivas loss adjuster to carry out repairs in 2006 after the 
leaseholders rejected the cash settlement offer, but this was never responded to or 
followed up by Aviva. 
That the original claim is ongoing because Aviva accepted liability but didnt repair 
the property. 
That it has provided sufficient evidence that the current damage should be treated by 
Aviva as a new and separate claim and be accepted.
That it is unreasonable to assume the current damage is linked to the original claim 
due to its location in the property.
That Aviva only gave it short notice about its decision to not offer renewal terms.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original claim and settlement
The rules applying to this service say that, unless the business agrees, I cant consider a 
complaint which isnt made within six years of the event being complained of, or if later, 
within three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) of cause for complaint. This is set out in Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R (2), which can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook. Or we can provide a copy on request.Part of Es complaint is about a claim which was initially logged around 2002, and it appears 
Aviva offered to cash settle the claim around 2006. So I am satisfied the events E is talking 
about took place more than six years ago. So, whats left for me to consider is whether the 
complaint was also made more than three years after E became aware, or ought reasonably 
to have become aware, of cause for complaint.
E says that as the original claim is still ongoing the clock has not started for limitation. Aviva 
has provided information to show it chased up the cash settlement in 2008, which supports 
Es comments about it rejecting the cash settlement in 2006. E has also confirmed the 
original repairs were never done to the property. But given the passage of time, theres 
nothing definitive to show me why the cash settlement wasnt paid as claimed by E.
Whilst I appreciate Es position here, I think the circumstances in either 2006 or 2008 should 
reasonably have made it aware it had a cause for complaint at the time. Even if E didnt 
specifically know it could complain about the cash settlement offer, I think its actions and 
subsequent testimony lend weight to the fact it was aware the claim hadnt been concluded 
to its satisfaction, and I think this reasonably ought to have given it cause to complain. This 
means that E had until 2011 (at the latest) to bring a complaint, but it didnt complain until 
2019.
Ive not seen anything to explain why E didnt follow up its concerns at the time, nor why 
there was a gap of so many years before it raised its concerns with Aviva. So I think that our 
rules do apply here, and because of this, I think that Es complaint points regarding the 
original claim have been made too late and I cant look at any of the events linked to this 
claim, including whether Aviva is liable for the damage or not.
I am, however, allowed to investigate late complaints if the failure to comply with the time 
limits was due to exceptional circumstances. Ive not seen anything to persuade me there 
were any exceptional circumstance in E bringing its complaint to us late. So Im satisfied 
these rules apply to Es complaint, and I cant consider the original claim and settlement.
Ill next go on to consider Es concerns about the current damage and whether Aviva has 
acted fairly and reasonably in turning down the claim. Finally Ill consider if Avivas decision 
to not offer renewal terms to E was fair and reasonable.
Es 2019 claim
In order for a claim to be accepted, it is for the insured party to show that an insurable event 
has taken place. And its not in dispute here that there is movement occurring at the 
property. But not all property movement is as a result of subsidence. So our service would 
only require an insurer to cover the cost of repairs if it can be shown an insurable event 
happened when the policy was still in force.
So what I need to determine is if there is any evidence the cause of movement reported in 
2019 can be linked to any insured events under the policy. And the matter has been 
complicated by the uncertainty of the events surrounding the original claim. 
Avivas loss adjuster states our file indicates some monitoring was carried outno active 
subsidence movement was recorded and we were satisfied that the porch was made stable 
in 2005/6. Any new damage is unlikely to be due to the same cause albeit we have no 
details about this new damage, when it occurred, or where it isIt may be difficult to prove 
either way, as we no longer have details of the site investigations undertaken originally.Es expert report from October 2020 states that the cracking (and alleged movement) was 
first reported in c2005 / more than 10 years ago and that no remedial works have taken 
place since. 
Based on this comment, I think E therefore needs to go further to show the claim should be 
accepted, in that it needs to show that the new damage is linked to an insured event, and 
that the damage isnt linked to a lack of repairs or remedial works from the original claim. 
I say this on a fair and reasonable basis, as Ive not seen anything to explain why E waited a 
number of years before following up the claim, or why it didnt ensure the repairs were 
completed whilst knowing that in any event they were required. 
Therefore I dont think it is reasonable to expect Aviva as the insurer to re-engage with the 
claim when it now has little or no evidence of what actually happened, unless there is clear 
and persuasive evidence which meets the criteria set out above. Unfortunately for E, given 
the passage of time I think it will be very difficult for it to now show this.
Ive considered Es expert report, and I can see it states there is evidence of extensive 
movement (separation) between the porch structure and side elevation of the property. 
However, at low level, from ground level to a height of approx. 500mm, there is no evidence 
of cracking / separation between the two structures. This indicates that the side wall and 
foundationshave not subsided and that the movement has been caused by lateral 
movement of the porch structure.
And the report continues, On the basis that there is no evidence of significant movement / 
cracking at low level to the side elevation, in my professional opinion the cracking that 
affects the elevations is related to lateral movement of the upper level parts of the structure.
So based on these comments, I think its clear the expert is suggesting the main cause of 
the damage is due to lateral movement and hasnt suggested subsidence as a cause. So 
Ive not seen anything which links this to an insured event under the policy. And whilst E 
says the report shows the new damage isnt linked to the lack of repairs, Im not persuaded 
the report is that specific in showing the consequences (or lack of consequences) of not 
mitigating the previous damage. So I cant fairly conclude E has shown there is a valid claim 
here, and as such Avivas decision to turn down the claim is fair and reasonable. 
Avivas decision to not offer renewal terms
Ive considered Es point about Aviva choosing not to renew the policy and giving it a weeks 
notice. And I appreciate it says that Avivas actions here have caused it a great deal of 
inconvenience in obtaining a new policy. But it is not for me to say what risks Aviva chooses 
to underwrite and accept. Ultimately, I can only look at whether its actions were fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having considered the events leading up to Avivas decision, its clear it was aware the 
required repairs from around 2006 hadnt been completed once E raised its concerns during 
its attempt to bring a claim in 2019. So this information, which was disclosed to Aviva during 
the term of the policy, most likely increased the level of risk for Aviva as there was an 
increased probability that the lack of repairs would lead to future problems.
So based on everything Ive seen, I cant say that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in choosing not to renew the policy if it felt the risks were no longer acceptable to it. Whilst a 
weeks notice could be seen as short, I think it still allowed time for an alternative policy to be 
sourced by E. And once Aviva had taken the decision to not renew the policy, this was 
always likely to cause E some inconvenience, so I dont think any compensation is 
warranted in the circumstances.For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L, on behalf of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman