DRN-2026958
The complaint
Miss K complains about what happened when she asked Lloyds Bank PLC to help her to get 
back money shed paid for a service which wasnt delivering what it promised.
What happened
Miss K paid for a service online in May 2018. By October 2018, she said that the company 
wasnt providing what shed paid for, and she felt it was fraudulent. So she asked Lloyds to 
help her get back the £249 shed paid. 
Lloyds said Miss K hadnt sent it the information it needed to process a chargeback request. 
It said that at first she sent emails from a different address, and needed to update her details 
with Lloyds. Then she said she was having problems opening secure emails, so in 
November 2018 Lloyds told her how to reset her passphrase. Lloyds said miss k emailed it 
in November 2018, then again in April 2019, but still didnt provide the information it needed. 
And it didnt hear from her again after that until she complained in February 2020. 
Lloyds said it was too late now to register a chargeback request for Miss K. Lloyds knew 
Miss K said shed repeatedly called to discuss the chargeback in the meantime. But it said it 
had no evidence of that. And it thought if she had called, her details wouldve been easy to 
locate using her account number. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that there are strict 
deadlines for raising chargeback requests. And Miss K hadnt sent Lloyds the requested 
evidence within those timescales. Our investigator understood that Miss K had experienced 
technical problems, but our investigator thought that Lloyds had sent clear instructions on 
how to resolve those issues. It was now too late for Lloyds to raise a chargeback request. 
Miss K didnt agree. She said she was really disappointed, and thought Lloyds should at 
least pay something as goodwill, given the time and effort spent. She said it wasnt true that 
she hadnt spoken to Lloyds between February 2020 and April 2019. She said shed 
repeatedly tried to contact Lloyds on the phone, but had just been left on hold. She said she 
kept asking Lloyds to send the email without the password, but it wouldnt. And the links to 
change the password didnt work. 
Because Miss K and our investigator didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Miss K rang Lloyds to say she wanted to make a chargeback request. She then emailed 
Lloyds with examples of the service shed received from the company she wanted to get her 
money back from. I understand why Miss K send those, as the call handler told her they 
would be good evidence when she first lodged the chargeback. But Lloyds then asked for 
further documentation. I dont think it ever got this, and I think it needed this to make the 
chargeback request for Miss K. Ill explain why I think that.
I can see that Miss K got an email from Lloyds on 5 November, which asked for a detailed 
description of the service purchases and received, including duration, type, what is included, 
any differences and faults. That email also asked for service date and cancellation date. 
Miss K replied to that email on the same day, and then again on 11 November, but she didnt 
include those details. 
Miss K then said that she couldnt read the secure messages Lloyds was sending. But the 
above email appears to have been sent by secure message to her, and she replied to it. 
I can also see that Lloyds emailed offering help to open the secure messages, and I can 
hear on a call she had that it was also able to simply read these messages out to her. 
There are long breaks between the emails I can see from Miss K. I know Miss K says she 
called Lloyds repeatedly in between these times, and she couldnt get through. But Lloyds 
says if she did ring, she shouldve been able to talk to its disputes team. I think its likely that 
if Miss K had called, then Lloyds wouldve been able to tell her what further information it 
wanted. And I also think that Miss K had opened, and replied to, emails which did explain 
what Lloyds wanted. I dont think Miss K was entirely unable to communicate with Lloyds.
For those reasons, I think Miss K was aware of what Lloyds wanted. Having looked carefully 
at the emails she sent, I dont think she sent the information it had asked for. 
And I do think Lloyds needed this extra information to make a chargeback request for 
Miss K. She had told Lloyds what the company had agreed to provide. But it wouldve helped 
her case a great deal to send details from the company, setting out what shed signed up to, 
as well as emails where shed told the company she wanted to cancel because it wasnt 
doing what it promised. Lloyds didnt have those extra pieces of information. 
I dont think that Lloyds had enough information to make a successful chargeback request. 
And its now too late for Lloyds to make this request. I know that Miss K thinks that Lloyds 
has let her down, but I dont agree. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask Miss K 
for more information, and not to proceed without this. I know Miss K will be disappointed, but 
I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman