DRN-3661857
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr N and Miss P have; the loan is administered by 
Acenden (which is a trading name of Kensington Mortgage Company) on behalf of the 
lender. Mr N and Miss P are unhappy that theyve already paid back more than was set out 
in the original loan agreement and they still have an outstanding balance.
What happened
Mr N and Miss P took out this secured loan in 2007. They borrowed £5,000 over a 20-year 
term on a repayment basis.
In March 2021 Mr N and Miss P raised a complaint about the amount of interest that had 
accrued on the account. They also said they wanted the fees and charges to be reviewed.
Acenden didnt uphold the complaint, albeit it offered to reverse £525 of fees that had been 
charged on the account. It said there were long periods where the contractual monthly 
payment hadnt been made and, due to that, extra interest had accrued as well as fees and 
charges being added.
Mr N and Miss P referred the complaint to us and it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She explained there were various time limits set out in our rules and that we 
couldnt consider the fees, charges and balance before March 2015 (that is, six years before 
the complaint was made to the business).
Mr N and Miss P accepted that, and our investigator then looked at what had happened 
since March 2015. Having done so, she didnt uphold the complaint as she felt the business 
had done enough in reversing the fees that it had.
Mr N and Miss P didnt agree, saying they didnt understand why they will be paying back a 
lot more than they thought they should be.
As that encompasses the entire complaint, I issued a decision in July 2022 setting out which 
parts of this complaint we can and cant consider. I said that we could only consider the fees, 
charges and balance of the loan account that has accrued since March 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, I can only consider the period since March 2015. I 
also can only consider up until May 2021 as that was when Mr N and Miss P referred this 
complaint to us. Anything that may have happened since then cant be included as part of 
this complaint. 
Ive looked at the fees and charges on the account since March 2015. Having done so Im 
satisfied all the fees and charges that remain on the account are fair and in line with the 
published tariff. Arrears fees have only been charged when payments havent been made in 
full, and alternative payment method fees have only been charged when Mr N and Miss P 
didnt pay by one of the means stated (which were direct debit, standing order, telegraphic 
transfer, CHAPS and online via debit card). The legal costs have been incurred by the lender 
due to the level of arrears building up each time again because of the broken promises to 
pay. Ive seen the invoices for those, and its only fair those costs are passed onto Mr N and 
Miss P, and that is part of the terms of the loan agreement.
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. That didnt 
happen here as Mr N and Miss P were in arrears for many years.
 As interest is constantly being charged this means its not as simple as making up the 
missed payment, theres also the extra interest incurred for every day that payment is 
overdue. This interest roll-up can add up significantly as Mr N and Miss P have found; for 
each delayed payment extra interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is 
late. Then there are the charges for the missed payments and legal costs added onto the 
debt.
From my review I cant see any errors in how the lender has calculated Mr N and Miss Ps 
mortgage and mortgage balance. Im satisfied the lender has taken all Mr N and Miss Ps 
payments into account when it has calculated the interest due. Its not possible for us to 
carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open to Mr N and Miss P to 
instruct a suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for them. That would have to 
be at their expense, though if an error were found to their financial detriment they could 
include any reasonable costs of finding it in any fresh complaint that followed. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman