DRN-3049232
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) had an incorrect start and end 
date on his appliance insurance policy. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr A feels very strongly about what has happened and the inconvenience he has 
been caused. I need to make it clear that I can only consider the actions of D&G in this 
complaint. I understand Mr A spent many hours of the phone with the company he bought 
the appliance and insurance policy from, however I cant take that into account in this 
decision.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the 
following reasons:
D&G relied on the information provided by the retailer when setting up the policy. 
D&G wouldnt have been aware of the date Mr A actually received the appliance as 
this was arranged by the retailer. It updated the policy to reflect this date on the day 
Mr A called. 
When Mr A raised the fact the end date of the policy was wrong, D&G registered this 
as a complaint as it needed to investigate the matter. It had up to eight weeks to 
complete its investigations and provide its findings to Mr A. It did this within four 
weeks, confirming to Mr A that the end date had been changed on his policy and 
offering to email to confirm this. It also offered Mr A £15 for his inconvenience. 
Mr A chose to make many calls to D&G while its investigations were ongoing, and he 
did so in the knowledge of how long the call wait times were. I appreciate the matter 
was important to Mr A however D&G wouldnt have been in a position to give any 
further update to him until it had completed his investigations. I realise this would 
have caused Mr A frustration however I dont think D&G can be held responsible for 
the fact Mr A chose to keep calling when it had no update to give him.
D&G has apologised for the errors on his policy, it took action to put them right and 
offered Mr A compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and therefore I wont be asking D&G to do anything more here.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint against Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman