DRN-4013940
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund three transactions from his account which 
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 29 November 2022 three payments were made using the details of the debit card 
associated with Mr Rs Monzo account. The three payments totalled around £150 and all 
went to the same merchant B. 
Later the same day Mr R disputed the transactions with Monzo saying he hadnt made them. 
Mr R explained that hed been asleep at a friends house and when he woke up the phone 
wasnt next to him. He also said that his phone and Monzo app werent protected by any 
passwords or biometrics. 
Ultimately Monzo declined to offer a refund. Mr R complained and when Monzo maintained 
their position the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary he thought Monzo had acted 
fairly. Mr R still disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
The evidence from Monzo shows that the three payments which Mr R denies making were 
authenticated using the card details. And that this took place without any further additional 
steps being taken. In essence, this means all that was needed for someone to make these 
payments would have been the details either printed on the card or obtained from within the 
Monzo app. 
Mr Rs testimony is that he fell asleep at a friends house and that someone else made these 
payments without his knowledge or authority. He says his phone was in a different part of 
the house when he woke up. The technical evidence shows that the PIN number was 
entered into the app to enable Mr Rs card details to be displayed five times between 2.51am 
and 3.01am on the day in question. The three payments were authenticated at 2.55am, 
2.58am and 3.04am. Part of our Investigators reasoning for rejecting the complaint was that 
Mr R said he hadnt written down or shared his PIN with anyone. 
However, on a call to our service, Mr R said that his card was with his phone at the relevant 
time. And the card likely displays all the information required for authentication of the 
disputed payments. So, I believe there is at least a potential point of compromise for the card 
details, without a third party needing to have knowledge of Mr Rs PIN. 
But as Ive mentioned above, this doesnt change my mind as to the overall outcome of this 
complaint. Broadly speaking there are only two possible ways in which Mr Rs card details 
could have been known by a third party. Either his physical card was compromised and that 
is where they obtained the details, or the PIN was entered, and the details were displayed in 
the app on his phone. If the card was the point of compromise, then the activity on the app 
(entering of the PIN and display of the card details) doesnt make any sense. The third party 
would have already had all they needed to make the payments and Mr Rs testimony is that 
it wasnt him who did this as he was asleep at the time. Based on this, I think its most likely 
that the point of compromise for Mr Rs card details was from within the app, rather than the 
physical card. And there isnt a plausible explanation for how someone other than Mr R knew 
the PIN that was required to display the card details.
Monzo also pointed out that shortly before the disputed payments, Mr Rs account had a low 
balance. And in the minutes prior to the disputed payments, there were three incoming 
payments of broadly equivalent amounts. Monzo say these came from another account in 
Mr Rs name and the statements Ive seen support this being the case. This is a common 
pattern of non-disputed usage of Mr Rs account. It would frequently be credited with an 
equivalent amount shortly before an outgoing payment was made. 
Monzo asked Mr R whether there was any activity (other than the three payments hed 
disputed) that he didnt recognise. Mr R didnt report not recognising the incoming payments. 
Although I acknowledge that when our Investigator pointed this out, he said the other bank 
accounts app wasnt protected and so a third party must have made those transfers too. Im 
more persuaded by the answers Mr R gave to Monzo at the time. I think its most likely that 
had he not recognised the incoming payments he would have reported this at the time, 
particularly when being specifically asked about other account activity. 
The chat evidence between Mr R and Monzo shows that hed previously alleged an 
unauthorised payment from his account in 2021. As part of the advice Monzo gave whilst 
investigating this, they suggested he secure his phone. In November 2021 Mr R advised 
Monzo that hed fully secured his phone. But when reporting the disputed transactions 
more recently, Mr R again said that he had no security on his phone. The removal of this 
seems to be an unusual step to take, given his previous experience and the advice hed 
received from Monzo. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think Monzo concluding that Mr R more than 
likely authorised the payments he disputes is reasonable. There isnt a plausible point of 
compromise for the PIN number that enabled the card details to be displayed in the app. 
There also isnt a convincing explanation as to why the incoming payments werent also 
reported as unrecognised at the time.
It follows that I dont think there is a reasonable basis upon which I could direct Monzo to 
provide a refund. I dont think there is more they ought to have done or that they provided 
poor service in their handling of this matter such that a compensation award would be 
appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman