DRN-4288145
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly declined 
her claim.
What happened
Ms L had a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes.
She booked a short stay in the UK but her employer cancelled her leave and so she had to 
cancel her stay. She received a part refund from the tour operator and made a claim for the 
remaining costs.
Great Lakes reviewed the letter provided by Ms Ls employer but declined the claim.
Ms L complained to Great Lakes. It offered £100 compensation and an apology for the 
delays in dealing with the claim. Unhappy, Ms L referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found the offer was reasonable for the claim 
assessment delays. But didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly declined the claim.
Ms L disagreed and said that she is a member of the nursing profession and therefore 
should be covered. She considers the reason for cancelling her leave is covered under the 
policy and her claim should be paid.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. Although I 
havent commented on everything Ms L has said, Ive carefully considered it and will instead, 
focus on what is key to my decision. 
The relevant policy terms are under the cancellation section which say:
This section of the policy sets out the cover we provide to each insured booking in 
total per insured journey, up to the sum insured shown in the table of benefits, 
following necessary and unavoidable cancellation of a trip as a result of:You or 
your travelling companion being a member of the armed forces, police, ambulance, 
fire, or nursing service and your or their authorised leave being cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of your trip
Under the what is not covered section, the policy says:
Any claim caused by work commitment or amendment of your holiday entitlement by 
your employer (other than as set out under this section). 
Ms L has told us that she works for the nursing service. So she would have cover under the 
cancellation section if her leave was cancelled due to an unexpected emergency but not due 
to work commitments or an amendment of her holiday entitlement. 
Ive looked at Ms Ls claim form and the letter Ms L has provided from her employer. Under 
reason for cancellation, Ms L has written work commitments.
The letter from her employer asks for annual leave that has been requested to be withdrawn 
due to the following:
after a lot of consideration with the demands of the winter pressures our aim is to 
minimise the number of staff taking annual leave at any one time.
Ms Ls claim would be covered if this letter suggested that the leave was being cancelled 
due to an emergency. Emergency isnt defined in the policy so I have considered its 
ordinary every day meaning and dictionary definition.
The Oxford English Dictionary definition of emergency is:
A juncture that arises or turns up; esp. a state of things unexpectedly arising. And 
urgently demanding
The Cambridge dictionary definition of emergency is:
Something dangerous or serious, such as an accident, that happens suddenly or 
unexpectedly and needs fast action in order to avoid harmful results.
The Collins dictionary definition says:
An emergency is an unexpected and difficult or dangerous situation, especially an 
accident, which happens suddenly and which requires quick action to deal with it.
Having considered the above definitions, I dont think the reason the leave was cancelled 
was due to an emergency as the demands of the winter pressures happen each year. And 
the employer says it had given the cancellation a lot of consideration. This suggests this 
request wasnt in response to an emergency but a generic situation which occurs and so it 
isnt unexpected. 
For that reason, Im sorry to disappoint Ms L but I dont think Great Lakes unfairly declined 
her claim.
In relation to the delays in the claim assessment, Great Lakes offered Ms L £100 
compensation for not dealing with her claim promptly. As the delay didnt have any lasting 
effect, I consider £100 is reasonable. If this hasnt already been paid, Ms L should contact 
Great Lakes to arrange payment if she would now like to accept that payment.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman