DRN-2642022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland, (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the policy during a meeting in 1996, at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The policy only covered Mrs M.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M said 
that, as this view was based on assumptions rather than evidence, they required the matter 
to be referred for a final decision. So it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Because the sale was so long ago, BoS no longer has any of the paperwork signed by Mr 
and Mrs M. And it is not required to keep papers for this length of time. So, Ive had to make 
my decision on the basis of the information that I do have and what we know generally about 
the sale of MPPI policies and, in particular, those sold by BoS. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. Im satisfied that these approaches 
are a fair and reasonable way of reaching my decision.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below:
Mr and Mrs M say that they dont remember MPPI being discussed. And they were not 
aware that it had been added to their account. But they are trying to recall matters that took 
place about 25 years ago. And I dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on what 
they remember. In the absence of any more persuasive evidence, I dont consider that Ive 
anything on which to base a finding that BoS didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the 
policy was optional or that they didnt choose to take it.
Mr and Mrs M say that BoS didnt give them any advice about taking out the insurance. But, 
as the sale was face-to-face, BoS thinks that it did. So, to be fair to Mr and Mrs M, Ive made 
my decision on this latter basis. This means that BoS needed to have taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for them. Because of the time that has passed, I 
dont know what steps BoS actually took. But, in any event, I find that the MPPI was suitable. 
I say this taking into account what I know about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and by 
reference to the terms and conditions of the policy, because:
Mrs M was eligible for the policy;
Mrs M wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition; 
Mrs M has told us that she was entitled to six months full sick pay and six months half. 
She also may have been entitled to a redundancy package. But, following a successful 
claim for accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment, the MPPI would have paid 
£200 a month. These payments would have been made for up to 12 months. And would 
have been paid in addition to any sick or redundancy payments from Mrs Ms work, 
leaving those available to help with meeting her and Mr Ms other expenses while she 
wasnt earning. So I find that the MPPI could have been of use to Mr and Mrs M;
The cost of the policy was initially about £10 a month and was competitively priced by 
reference to other similar policies available in the market at the time. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M. In any 
event, had they later felt that they couldnt afford the policy, they could have cancelled it 
at any time without further cost, as it was paid for monthly;
Im not sure why the policy was in Mrs Ms sole name. Where only one of the borrowers 
on a joint mortgage has this type of insurance, it is most usual for it to be the party first 
named as the borrower on the mortgage. But Mr M was the first named party on the 
mortgage in this case. So In think its reasonable to assume that BoS had a discussion 
with Mr and Mrs M and that, for whatever reason, they decided not to include Mr M on 
the policy at all. This conclusion also reinforces my view that Mr and Mrs M were aware 
that they had choices over taking out the MPPI.
BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs M clear, fair, and not-misleading information about the 
main features of the MPPI, so that they could decide whether they wanted it or not. Its 
possible that the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs M wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But Ive found nothing on which to conclude that they didnt choose to take the policy and it 
seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious consequences that 
could have arisen had Mr and Mrs M not been able to make their monthly payments on their 
mortgage which was secured on their home.
So I conclude that Mr and Mrs M havent lost out because of anything that BoS may have 
done wrong during the sale. So theres nothing I require it to put right.
As Ive said, Ive considered all the information that the parties have given us. Mr and Mrs M 
told us that they had a car and may have had some savings. But the savings may not have 
still been available at a time Mrs M was unable to work. And it may not have been 
convenient or timely to sell their car in order to keep up their mortgage payments. So these 
and Mr and Mrs Ms other points dont affect my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Ros BarnettOmbudsman