DRN-4058090
The complaint
Mr K says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance
(who Ill refer to as BPF) unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold in July 2007.
Mr K has been represented by a professional representative and hes submitted his claim on
behalf of himself and his wife, but as Mr K is named on the credit agreement I will refer only
to him in this decision. I mean no disrespect to Mr Ks wife or his representative when doing
so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr K purchased a timeshare in July 2007 using a credit card provided by BPF. BPF have
explained that the last payment towards the debt was made no later than January 2009.
Mr K says the agreement was brokered by a company Ill call LD and BPF say it was
brokered by one Ill call PL, Ill come back to that later but in the meantime Ill refer simply
to the broker. Mr K complained to BPF in 2021. He said that the broker wasnt authorised to
arrange loans and was acting in breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (FSMA).
In June 2021 Mr K, unhappy with BPFs response to his claim, referred it to us. He said that
the timeshare had been misrepresented to him and that he had a like claim against the credit
provider (BPF) as he did against the supplier under section 75 of the CCA. He said there
had also been an unfair relationship and that he therefore also had a claim under section
140A of the CCA. He explained that the credit broker hadnt been authorised to broker the
credit and he also believed that BPF hadnt conducted reasonable and proportionate checks
to ensure that the credit was affordable for him.
Mr K cited a number of reasons why his claim should succeed - it isnt practical to list them
all here, but Mr Ks assertion is that he wouldnt have proceeded with the timeshare deal had
it not been for the unfair relationship and the misrepresentations.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. It was his view that the
business hadnt been unreasonable to suggest Mr K was out of time under the Limitation Act
1980 (LA) to raise his complaints under the CCA. He didnt think Mr K had been able to
provide any evidence that the credit wasnt affordable for him, and he noted that our systems
suggested the broker was authorised to broker the agreement.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that rules in the LA were not hard and
fast in so far as from when the clock starts ticking in respect of the cause of action accruing.
He said that section 32 of the LA allowed for a delay in the onset of the limitation period.
And, regardless, he said our service were able to decide what was fair and reasonable in the
circumstances and didnt have to follow the law. With regard to affordability Mr K said that
we couldnt ignore BPFs responsibility to conduct adequate creditworthiness checks.
As Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view the complaint has been referred to me, an
ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as I cant see weve responded to Mr Ks further
concerns.
I note that the only complaint Mr K made to BPF before referring an expanded complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman Service was about the credit agreement being unenforceable due
to the status of the credit broker. This service cant usually consider the merits of new
complaints if they havent been made to the business first. On this occasion, I can see that
our investigator shared the expanded complaint with BPF. Since then, BPF hasnt objected
to this service considering the complaint as a whole. And given its age, it seems to me to be
in everyones interest if I now deal with everything.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under FSMA. Given that, my role as an ombudsman is not to address every single
point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide what is fair and reasonable given the
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I am only going to refer to what I think
are the most salient points. But I have read all of the submissions from both sides in full and
I keep in mind all of the points that have been made when I set out my final decision.
The Limitation Act 1980 and the Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations
between Mr K and the broker are deemed to have been conducted by the broker as an
agent of BPF. This includes any representations made by the broker and any other dealings
between them.
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr K
also relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the broker will be deemed to be
the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding
whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr K and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr K may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take them into account when deciding whether BPF have been
reasonable rejecting Mr Ks claims.
BPF didnt consider the substantive merits of the claims Mr K made under section 75 and
section 140A. Thats because they say the claims were submitted out of time under the LA.The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that, when
considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit
agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. Here the
limitation period is six years. That is because the claim Mr K wishes to make is for
repayment of sums he has paid, which is an action for sums recoverable under statute, to
which s.9 LA applies.
However, the Court of Appeal more recently considered how the limitation period applies to
unfair relationship claims  this time in Smith and Burrell v Royal Bank of Scotland plc
[2021]. That case concerned the claim that there was an unfair debtor-creditor
relationship due to the levels of commission paid as a result of a Payment Protection
Insurance policy (PPI) taken on a credit card. The Court took the view that the relevant date
when assessing unfairness didnt always and necessarily have to be the date when the
debtor-creditor relationship ended. Birss LJ held that the relevant relationship up until the
date of the last PPI repayment was unfair. But once those sums had been repaid and no
liability remained, the fact that the defendant continued to leave claimants in ignorance of the
commission did not justify a finding that the unfairness continued, particularly when the credit
agreement alone was not unfair. And as the claimants had failed to allege or prove that any
economic effect or consequence of the PPI agreement persisted after the relevant sums had
been repaid, the Court held that the unfair relationship came to an end when those sums
had been repaid. It seems to me, therefore, that it can now be argued that the limitation
period may start at an earlier date than thought possible. In other words, the limitation period
can be said to start when the credit relating to a related agreement has been paid off, rather
than only when the relevant credit agreement is formally brought to an end.
Determining when the credit relating to the relevant purchase was repaid isnt
straightforward here because a credit card was utilised, and thats often used to make a
number of purchases over time and the outstanding balance each month isnt
always paid off in full.
BPF have told us that no payments have been received towards the credit card since 2008.
Im persuaded on that basis, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that its likely
the credit relating to the relevant purchase was repaid by that time and that means at the
latest Mr K would have needed to raise his claim under s140A was in 2014. As he did not do 
that, I think he brought his claim too late  which, in my view, is likely to give BPF a complete
defence to it.
A claim under section 75 for misrepresentation against BPF also had to be made within six
years of when Mr K had everything he needed to make such a claim. And in
this complaint, I think that was when he purchased the timeshare at the Time of Sale (July
2007). After all, he says that he entered into the agreement to purchase the timeshare
because of misrepresentations. And as the upshot of the claim was that he would not have
made the purchase but for the misrepresentations at the Time of Sale, it was at that time that
he suffered a loss because he ended up borrowing money from BPF.
As a result, I think Mr K had six years from the Time of Sale to make this claim. But as he
didnt do that, I think BPF is entitled to rely on the timing of this claim to turn it down given
the defence the LA is likely to give it.
Should the limitation period be postponed?
Mr K says that the time limits should be extended under section 32 of the LA - which states
that in cases of fraud, concealment, or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from
when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment, or mistake (or could have discovered it
using reasonable diligence).Mr K says that the broker were fraudulent but neither Mr K nor his representative have
pointed to anything in particular that they think constitutes any fraud. And, on that basis I
cant see that there was any.
Mr K also says that the broker concealed the fact they werent authorised by the regulator
(the Office of Fair Trading) at the Time of Sale. I dont agree that theres evidence the broker
werent authorised, so Im not persuaded there needs to be an extension of limitation for that
reason.
Was the broker authorised?
Mr K argues that LD wasnt authorised to arrange the credit agreement on BPFs behalf and
therefore breached the General Prohibition (section 19 of the FSMA). While I dont think its
fair to consider this under a section 140A claim (because it was made out of time under the
LA), I can consider this as a separate, free-standing complaint given the possible
implications of the credit brokers status on the credit agreement and the Financial
Ombudsman Services jurisdiction over such matters.
Our records indicate that LD were authorised in 2007, albeit not by the FCA. The FCA only
took over the regulation of consumer credit businesses on 1 April 2014. So, Mr K is correct
in saying LD wasnt authorised by the FCA at the time of sale, but they didnt need to be.
They needed to hold a license with the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and I think they did as
they fell under this Services consumer credit jurisdiction at the time and wouldnt have done
if they didnt hold the requisite OFT licence.
Theres some dispute about who the broker was as BPF suggest the broker was PL. They
are named as the retailer on the credit agreement but not as the credit intermediary, so I
dont think its likely they were the broker, but, even if Im wrong about that, our records show
that both LD and PL were OFT license holders at the time the agreement was entered into.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant see that there was any contravention of any relevant
regulatory provision. So, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr K says that BPF were in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says that BPF had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those  .
However, when BPF lent to Mr K, CONC didnt apply to lending of the kind in question. So, it
isnt relevant here. Whats more, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a
large consideration is whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and
whether the complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So
even if I was persuaded that BPF did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such
finding), for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that
the credit granted by BPF was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr K suffered a loss as a
result. As theres little evidence that he would have found, nor found, it difficult to repay what
he was lent by BPF, Im not persuaded it was unaffordable for him.
Conclusion
Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr K may have against
the supplier or BPF has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information
available, any claim that Mr K might have against the supplier and/or BPF has most likelyexceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in
these circumstances. And I dont think theres any reason why the limitation period should be
postponed. So, Im not currently inclined to ask BPF to do anything further in response to Mr
Ks claims under the CCA.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF didnt have anything to add, and Mr K didnt respond to my provisional decision. So, Ive 
not seen anything that would lead me to change my provisional decision and that now 
becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman