DRN-3956661
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked his account and asked him to provide 
information about activity on his account. Mr M also complains that Monzo returned a benefit 
payment back to source which caused him unnecessary inconvenience and worry for which 
he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with Monzo, which he opened in August 2021. Mr M has 
explained that he used his account to receive his Universal Credit (UC) payments each 
month from the Department of Work and Pensions. (DWP)
In October 2021, Monzo decided to review how Mr M was operating his account. Whilst it 
conducted its review the bank blocked Mr Ms account, this meant Mr M couldnt access the 
funds in his account and no payments could be credited to the account. 
On 17 October 2021, Monzo asked Mr M to provide information about five transactions on 
his account that had taken place between 20 and 25 September 2021. It did this by sending 
Mr M a message via its in-app banking chat asking him to explain the transactions. Mr M 
didnt respond. So, on 21 October 2021, Monzo sent a further message via its in-app 
banking chat asking him to provide the information. The message warned Mr M that if he 
didnt provide the information it could lead to restrictions being placed on his account.
Mr M didnt respond to Monzos second attempt to get in touch with him. So, it made two 
further attempts to get hold of Mr M on 26 October 2021 and 3 November 2021. These 
messages told Mr M that Monzo had temporarily frozen his account until he provided the 
information the bank had requested concerning the transactions.
Mr M says he never received any of the messages from Monzo as he was in hospital. Hes 
explained he took a taxi home and that when he tried to pay for his trip his bank card was 
declined. Following this he called Monzo to try and find out what was happening with his 
account. During the call he told Monzo that his phone was in for repair, so he hadnt received 
any of their requests for information as he didnt have access to his emails or in-app chat. 
Monzo explained to Mr M that it had blocked his account and wanted information about 
certain transactions. Mr M asked for his balance and whether his November 2021 benefit 
payment had been credited to his account. Monzo told him that due to the block on his 
account the UC payment had been rejected and returned to DWP on 16 November 2021. 
The advisor then went on to ask Mr M for the information about the transactions and how he 
used his account. Mr M said that the transactions were from his partner who had given him 
some money when his car had broken down. And that he had then paid her back. He 
explained that he didnt have any evidence to back up his explanation as it had all been 
arranged over the phone. Mr M told Monzo that he used the account to receive his benefit 
payments. The advisor apologised for any inconvenience the block was causing Mr M and 
told him that he would pass the information hed provided through to the department 
reviewing his account. 
On 22 November 2021, Mr M called Monzo for an update on what was happening with his 
account. During the call Monzo explained that it had emailed Mr M asking for evidence to 
support his explanation about the transactions. Mr M said he didnt have access to his 
emails, so hed not received anything from the bank. He explained that the money was from 
his partner and that the activity was all above board. He also said that he couldnt provide 
anything to support his explanation. The advisor gave Mr M details of how to contact UC to 
chase his November benefit payment. Monzo completed its review of Mr Ms account on 22 
November 2021 and allowed him to withdraw his balance. Following this Monzo decided to 
close Mr Ms account.
Mr M complained to Monzo about the block to his account. He said he didnt have another 
bank account and had to arrange for his benefit payment to be paid into a relatives account 
until he could organise an account with another bank. He explained that this had caused him 
inconvenience and stress. And that he hadnt managed to get his benefit payment until 26 
November 2021. 
In response, Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ms 
account. And it had done so in line with the account terms and its regulatory obligations.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said Monzo 
hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed Mr Ms account and retuned his UC payment 
to DWP.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view and said that the investigator had simply sided 
with the bank. He said that Monzo had treated him unfairly and knew what a terrible impact 
sending back his November UC payment would have on him  especially since he had a 
disability. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in response to the investigators view, Mr M has said he is concerned that the 
investigator is biased because she hasnt upheld his complaint   with the implication being 
that the bank is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his 
concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both parties say and 
then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in 
this complaint. If Mr M does not agree with our view, he does not have to accept it, and if he 
does not accept this final decision ,he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by 
other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about 
doing that.
The investigator was right to point out that Monzo has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access.In order to meet these requirements Monzo is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into and 
out of an account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Monzo to block Mr Ms account and ask him for information about the money which had 
been paid into it in September 2021. Having looked at the activity on Mr Ms account I can 
see that the payments were out of character, so I can understand why Monzo had concerns 
and wanted to find out more about the transactions. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr M 
inconvenience, I cant say Monzo treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. And 
asked him to provide information so that it could comply with its regulatory obligations. 
I can see that Monzo asked Mr M via its in-app chat to provide it with the information on four 
separate occasions between 17 October 2021 and 3 November 2021. Monzo has explained 
that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Its unfortunate that Mr M didnt 
receive Monzos requests due to not having access to his phone, which was in for repair and 
being in hospital. But I cant hold Monzo responsible for Mr M not receiving its messages. 
The bank had no way of knowing what was happening with Mr M and that he hadnt received 
its requests, until he contacted them on 19 November 2021. 
The timing of Monzos actions was unfortunate. Mr M had just come out of hospital to find his 
bank account blocked and his UC payment not in his account. So, I can understand why he 
found this whole experience with Monzo frustrating. But as Ive already explained financial 
businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. And Monzo 
were following an internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their 
obligations. 
Due to Mr Ms account being blocked it wasnt able to receive Mr Ms November 2021 UC 
payment. Ive already explained that Monzos review was a legitimate exercise. So, whilst I 
appreciate Mr M was inconvenienced when his account was blocked and reviewed, I cant 
say Monzo treated Mr M unfairly when it blocked Mr Ms account and returned his benefit 
payment. I note too that Monzo completed its review within three days. So, Im satisfied it 
completed its review in a timely manner
I know Mr M is seeking compensation to cover the trouble and upset he was caused by 
Monzo blocking his account and returning his benefit money. But it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to award any compensation since I dont find Monzo acted inappropriately. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ms account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Ms account with two months notice. So, it was entitled to close the 
account as it has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mr M when Monzo blocked and closed 
his account. And returned his funds to DWP. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I dont believe Monzo acted unreasonably or treated Mr M unfairly in taking the 
actions it did. So I wont be asking Monzo to do anything to resolve Mr Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman