DRN-3031459
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs G says The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Co-op made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Co-op has provided some of the key documents 
from the time of the sale. The first one is Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage application. 
Looking at this I can see there is a separate section of the form, which records that Mr 
and Mrs G wanted accident, sickness and unemployment cover. If they didnt want cover 
they were asked to sign this section of the form to indicate their decision.
Mr and Mrs G also completed a PPI application - a separate application from the 
mortgage application. By having to complete a separate application, Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs G would have been under the impression that they had to have PPI or that it 
was an integral part of the mortgage offering.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs G chose to take out PPI and did so 
without undue pressure. 
Co-op didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs G  Ive seen no evidence that it 
provided advice. So Co-op didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for Mr 
and Mrs G. But it did have to give them enough clear and timely information so they 
could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Co-op gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs G  for example 
Mr G as the sole policy holder was eligible for the cover and there was nothing about his 
employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim.
Although Mr G says he had a medical condition when the PPI was taken out, Im not 
persuaded that better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused Mr and Mrs G to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say 
this because based on what Mr G has told us about his condition together with whats 
recorded at the time of the sale, I dont think Mr Gs condition was of concern to him such 
that hed have thought the main reason hed need to claim on the policy would be for his 
condition. Mr G has told us that he was on medication and that he considered his 
condition to be controlled. He said hed not had any time off work because of his 
condition. And this is supported by the evidence from the time, which shows that when 
asked Mr G said he considered himself to be in good health  its also recorded that he 
said No to seeing a doctor within the 12 months prior to taking out the policy.
Im mindful too that Mr G didnt have any enhanced sick pay and jointly Mr and Mrs G 
didnt have any savings they could use to make the repayments on their mortgage if Mr 
G wasnt able to work. And it is these things that I think Mr and Mrs G would have 
weighed up at the time in making their decision to go ahead. From what I can see the 
cover also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. Taking everything into account I dont think Mr and Mrs G 
would have declined the cover had Co-op done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Co-op should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Gs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Gs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Co-op doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman