DRN-3929765
The complaint
Mr A complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his motor parts and 
labour insurance claim. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr A claimed against his Acromas parts and labour insurance policy. His car 
was recovered to a garage.  It was unable to undertake the type of repair required. So it 
referred him to a second garage (Ill call it X). Mr As car was taken to X. But Acromas said it 
was unable to deal with X. It told Mr A to find an alternative garage. He said other garages 
he spoke to were unable to do the repairs and referred him back to X. Mr A then instructed 
and paid X to do the repairs. But Acromas refused to pay his claim. It says X is on its list of 
banned garages. 
In August 2022 Acromas responded to Mr As complaint. It said its agent had told him it was 
unable to pay claims involving X and had offered to move the vehicle to another garage for 
no charge. So it still didnt settle his claim.  Mr A didnt accept that response, so came to this 
service. He says the policy terms allow him to use a garage of his choice. And he had no 
choice but to use X as he needed to have the vehicle repaired. So wants Acromas to settle 
his claim.
In January 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. He felt Acromas should have 
done more to arrange an alternative garage for Mr A, so he recommended it pay the claim in 
line with the remaining policy terms. Mr A accepted that outcome, but Acromas didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so. I require Acromas to pay Mr A £535 to settle his complaint.
First Ive considered if, ignoring the involvement of X, the claim would have been payable 
under the policy terms. This service asked Acromas to consider the available evidence, 
including repair invoice, job description and policy terms, to give an opinion on this. 
Disappointingly it didnt provide one. It simply said an independent engineer would have 
been appointed. Its unfortunate Acromas wasnt willing to provide a little more. However, it 
just means I need to consider the claim against the policy terms without its input.
The policy covers the cost of repair or replacement to insured parts, labour and VAT 
following a breakdown. The replaced parts include a gearbox control module - costing about 
£1,200. Gearbox is listed in the policy as in insured part. So Im satisfied that part and 
related labour are covered.  
Breakdown is defined by the policy. The definition has various strands. Im satisfied they 
are met. For example there seems to have been a sudden or unexpected electrical or 
mechanical failure and it was attended by the relevant roadside assistance firm. So Im 
satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that the claim would most likely have been paid. 
Unfortunately Acromas refuses to settle because of the involvement of X. Its explained this 
isnt a case of a policyholder being caught up in a dispute between it and X. But I disagree, I 
feel its exactly that. Mr As a policyholder who wished to make genuine use of the benefit 
provided by the cover he paid for. Everything Ive seen points to him acting reasonably 
during the claim.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr A (and Mrs A) and Acromas. Ive considered his 
testimony. Im satisfied, despite Acromas claims, that he made genuine and reasonable 
efforts to find an alternative repairer. Unfortunately, due to the nature of the repair, he 
couldnt find one within practical distance. He needed his car for day-to-day family use. So 
he made a practical choice to use the repairer available to him.   
Im not going to respond to each of Acromas points about Mr As search for an alternative 
garage. It feels he didnt do enough. But one point does need addressing. Acromas has 
suggested on a couple of occasions that Mrs A stated clearly they had found another 
garage. This is simply incorrect. She reported that Mr A had texted that he might have 
found someone.
The exact requirement of the policy terms may not have been met by Mr A, but I cant see 
that Acromas has been prejudiced in anyway by his. He wasnt given claim authorisation as 
per the policy terms. But Im satisfied, as set out above, if it wasnt for the X issue this would 
have been given. And theres nothing to make me think X, for this claim, was involved in the 
kind of activity Acromas suspects it of in a previous claim. So I cant see that Acromas has 
lost out by Mr As use of X.
Overall Acromas should have treated Mr A with more discretion and understanding of his 
position as a customer  and focused less on Xs involvement and its internal policy.
The total repair bill was for more than £2,000. The excess should be deducted from that 
amount. So to settle Mr As claim Acromas will need to pay him the maximum payable under 
the terms - the policy limit of £535. As hes been unfairly without these funds since paying 
the invoice it will need to add simple interest at 8% That should be applied from the date the 
invoice was paid until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to 
settle Mr As claim by paying him £535  plus simple interest at 8% from the date he paid the 
invoice until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman