DRN-2533459
The complaint
Mr I complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) have unfairly declined his 
car insurance claim and voided his policy.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr Is car was stolen, so he contacted Haven to make a claim. It said Mr I 
had told it the car would be kept in a locked garage overnight when he took it out. But it said 
instead he didnt have a garage at the property and had been parking elsewhere. 
Haven said the policy wouldnt cover claims where a car was stolen overnight if it wasnt in 
the location he had specified (the garage). So it declined Mr Is claim. Haven also said it felt 
thered been a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation on his part, so it voided the policy and 
kept the premiums hed paid. 
Mr I complained, saying he said he did have access to a garage but would park his vehicle in 
a different car park during the day. And he said the car was stolen around 10pm so the 
endorsement shouldnt apply as it wasnt overnight. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that Mr I 
had been asked clear questions about where the car would be kept, and based on what 
shed seen hed answered incorrectly and without reasonable care. Mr I provided a copy of a 
garage tenancy agreement from 2018, but the investigator said there was no evidence to 
show this was still in place at the time of the theft. 
Mr I disagreed with our investigator. He reiterated his concerns about the time of the theft, 
and said hed intended to go to work at midnight. This didnt change the investigators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to 
take into account the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards 
and codes of practice. The relevant Act that Ive considered is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out that when applying for 
insurance, consumers have a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
As Haven has relied on this when considering the claim, it needs to show that Mr I didnt 
take reasonable care when purchasing the insurance, and that he made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So Ive considered what he was asked and what information he provided.
Mr I took out his car insurance through a third party comparison website. He was asked the 
question Where do you keep the car at night? which followed with a selection of different 
options with pictures illustrating what these meant. He selected locked garage. Im satisfied 
the question asked of Mr I was straightforward and clear, and he wouldve been able to 
provide an accurate answer to this question.
Haven has provided a video interview with Mr I as part of its investigation. It asked him 
where hed parked the car the day it was stolen. Mr I said it was parked in an outside car 
park near the building he lives in. He also said that he would park the car in one of three 
open car parks where I can find space. At this point, he made no reference to a locked 
garage as Id expect if this was where he regularly parked. 
Ive considered the garage tenancy agreement Mr I has provided. But as our investigator 
said, hes provided nothing to show this agreement was still in place at the time of loss, nor 
does this align with the comments he made to Haven about where he parked the car. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr I wouldve most likely kept the car 
parked outside overnight on a regular basis, and hes failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation by saying otherwise within his insurance application.
Ive then considered whether this misrepresentation is a qualifying one. This means, if 
Haven knew Mr I parked his car elsewhere and not in a garage as he said, would it have 
acted differently. Haven has shown it wouldve still insured Mr I, but wouldve charged him a 
higher premium. So, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
CIDRA says that such a qualifying misrepresentation can be considered as either careless, 
deliberate or reckless. And it uses the following definition to show if a policyholder has acted 
deliberately or recklessly if they:
(a) Knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
(b) Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer
Haven has said Mr Is misrepresentation was deliberate because he wouldve known where 
he parked his car overnight. Ive carefully considered the evidence Ive been provided with 
and I agree that Mr I wouldve been the best suited person to provide an accurate answer to 
this question. And in light of the evidence Ive discussed above, Im persuaded Havens 
decision to class his untrue answer as deliberate is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As Haven demonstrated a deliberate qualifying misrepresentation took place, it was entitled 
to avoid this policy and not return his premiums in line with CIDRA  which is what its done. 
So Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
Haven initially declined Mr Is claim due to the endorsement on the policy. But as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Haven has fairly avoided the policy. So I see no reason to consider 
this matter any further as it wouldnt change the outcome of the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Jack BaldryOmbudsman