DRN-3015341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around February 2016, a representative of a company Ill call P contacted Mr and 
Mrs T to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After a visit from a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to buy the system and to 
finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system which had turned out not to be true. And it said it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was shown as £7,775.00 to mislead Mr and Mrs T, as 
when the interest was added the total cost was £15,104.80; and
the system would generate free electricity; and
the system would be self-funding; and
the financial benefits of having the system would be enough to cover the finance 
agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response, explaining that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T. But it did offer £200 for the time it took it to respond to the 
complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but didnt provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers where goods or services are bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr and Mrs T to claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way that they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail and have considered whether they support what Mr and Mrs T 
say about the representations which P made.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr and 
Mrs Ts recollection of the sale, when considering whether there were any untrue statements 
of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Mr and Mrs T say that the cost of the system was shown as £7,775.00. They say that this 
was done to mislead them, as this figure didnt include any interest on the loan. So they 
consider that it hid the true cost of the system, which was £15,104.80.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs T makes it clear that the cash cost of the 
system is £7,775.00. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £7,675.00. But it goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£15,104.80.The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £7,775.00, it would cost Mr and Mrs T more than this, as 
theyd decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Self-funding
Mr and Mrs T have alleged that they were told that their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded, by the benefits of the system. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P and whether this supports what Mr and Mrs T have said.
The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T 
could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £75.85.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs T could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity saving is shown as £133.98. Taking into account 
the optional extra which Mr and Mrs T chose, the combined income and savings figure for 
year one is shown as £382.63. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs T entered into with Shawbrook. This shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £82.01. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and, in the last column, subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £82.01, to give an average 
difference between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in 
each year.
I think the quote clearly sets out the return Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive from the 
system by way of FIT payments and savings, and the monthly loan repayments that would 
be due. I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the return to the monthly loan 
repayments. But it does clearly show that the overall income they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not immediately be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative would have taken Mr and 
Mrs T though the quote. And Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ive considered the table above, which sets out the estimated average monthly return from 
the system, and the effect on that return of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected return and 
the monthly loan repayments, and that the expected return wouldnt be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 30 years. This shows that it 
was estimated that by year 25 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive 
would exceed the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would pay for itself 
by year 25, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if 
I were satisfied that it induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract, and they subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs T. The MCS certificate indicates that the system is 
expected to produce 2,968.20 kWh a year.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, has 
generated 3,328.24 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, as 
detailed on the MCS certificate. So Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
The quote estimates that the system will produce 1,113.00 kWh a year and has calculated 
the financial returns of the system based on this lower generation figure. The system is 
performing slightly better than the figure stated on the MCS certificate, and not far short of 
three times the figure provided in the quote. So its likely that the system will be pay for itself 
in a shorter amount of time that shown in the quote.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im 
satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and can see that the increases have been lower than P predicted at the time of sale. 
I think this explains why Mr and Mrs T havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the return achieved through the energy generated by the panels has 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider that it was unreasonable 
of P to use them as the basis for calculating the potential financial return Mr and Mrs T could 
expect from the system. So, while I appreciate that the return may not have been as high as 
estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P when Mr and Mrs T entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statements of fact that induced Mr and Mrs T to enter 
into the contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman