DRN-2714547
The complaint
The directors of T, Mr S and Mrs E complain on behalf of T about the level of compensation 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have offered in regard to incorrect information theyd 
given. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs E were unable to access Ts account for a few hours one day. Whilst querying 
this with Barclays they were told that the transfer of £50,000 theyd made the previous day 
had been cancelled. Whilst trying to do the transfer again, Mr S and Mrs E discovered that 
the transfer had been successful. Upon raising the matter with Barclays, T was initially 
offered £250 compensation which was increased to £300. Mr S felt that £2000 better 
reflected the trouble caused by Barclays errors. Mr S and Mrs E werent happy with the way 
their complaint had been handled by Barclays. 
Barclays upheld this complaint, they apologised and acknowledged that Mr S and Mrs E 
were incorrectly told that their transfer had been cancelled. Barclays said that they were 
unable to offer £2000 compensation, instead they offered £300 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset that this matter caused. One of our investigators reviewed this complaint and 
didnt uphold it. The investigator said that the actions taken by Barclays seemed fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And the compensation of £300 was 
sufficient. The investigator also said that he was unable to look at the complaint handling 
issue as this isnt something our service can look at. 
Mr S didnt agree with the view and said that that Barclays failed to log their complaint on 
time or respond within eight weeks. Mr S also said that the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by the directors should be taken into consideration. So, this matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has admitted that that a member of their team incorrectly said that the transaction 
had been cancelled and has apologised for the difficulties Mr S and Mrs E incurred when 
trying to access Ts account. I think that was fair. And I think that the compensation of £300 
fairly reflects any initial disruption and inconvenience that T may have experienced as a 
result of Barclays mistake. 
Ive noted the reasons for why Mr S believes that the compensation offered is insufficient but 
having carefully considered the trouble that T faced, I dont think further payment is 
warranted. I say this because although I fully accept that T was caused inconvenience, I 
havent seen evidence of any other financial implications the incorrect advice caused. And 
Barclays didnt have to reverse any actions in order to put T back into a position before the 
error occurred. I understand there would have time, effort and stress experienced by the 
directors of the company. But the complaint is between T, which is a limited company and 
Barclays. A limited company cant experience distress, so I cant ask Barclays to 
compensate for this, but it can be inconvenienced.  Taking into account the timeframe, Im 
satisfied that the sum offered in compensation for the error is fair.
Mr S has raised concerns about the logging and handling of this complaint. The rules set out 
by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) explains that a 
complaint is the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service which may have 
resulted in financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience. As complaint handling 
doesnt form part of the definition, this isnt something we can look into. Barclays have 
acknowledged that the complaint wasnt logged on time. I was pleased to see that Barclays 
looked into this, but this is a far as I can go in terms of commenting on the matter. 
I recognise that Mr S and Mrs E are likely to be unhappy with my final decision. And I 
acknowledge that theyve invested a lot of time into this complaint. But for the reasons given 
Im satisfied the compensation offered fairly compensates for the inconvenience T was 
caused. This being so there is no basis for me to ask Barclays to do anything further in 
regard to T. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T and T to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman