DRN-2861022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined 
their claim under the Buildmark Policy.
What happened
The Buildmark cover for Mr and Mrs Ds property started in July 2011. 
In November 2020, Mr D contacted NHBC to say rodents had chewed through the 
plastic airbricks and toilet fittings causing damage to his property. 
He said the materials used in building his home were not fit for purpose and caused 
him to have a rodent problem. 
NHBC considered Mr and Mrs Ds claim under section 3 of the buildmark policy. 
It said the airbricks were suitable because they were performing their intended 
purpose  to support and load and provide ventilation to Mr and Mrs Ds home. 
It also said the soil pipes were carrying out their intended function.  
It concluded the claim wasnt valid because the damage wasnt caused by a build 
defect, but instead by rodents.
Our investigator said there hadnt been a breach of the NHBC technical requirements 
and she agreed the airbricks and soil pipes were performing as intended. So, she 
was satisfied NHBC had fairly declined the claim. 
Mr D disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Section 3 of the buildmark policy provides cover against damage caused by defects in 
specific parts of the property during the three to ten-year period after purchasing the 
property. 
Under the policy, damage is defined as physical damage to a home, and defect as the 
breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder []. 
I dont dispute theres been damage to Mr and Mrs Ds home, but for there to be valid claim, 
the damage must be in a specified part of the property and attributable to a defect. Ill 
address each issue in turn.
Airbricks
NHBCs technical requirement R3 states that where there isnt a NHBC standard  materials, 
products and buildings systems, will be deemed acceptable if they comply with the relevant 
British Standard (BS). Here, the relevant BS is 493, clause 4 - which sets out the 
specification for airbricks and grating for wall ventilation. It says: The following materials 
may be used for the manufacture of airbricks [] c) Thermoplastics. It goes on to say that 
Airbricks for external use shall be manufactured in any of the materials specified in clause 
4, except plaster. 
Considering this, I cant agree Mr and Mrs Ds airbricks are defective simply because theyre 
made from plastic - as its clear from the British standards that this is an acceptable material 
from which to construct airbricks. So, it follows that there isnt damage by a defect and 
NHBC has therefore, acted fairly in declining this part of Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Internal plumbing - fixtures and fittings
Page 14 of the Buildmark policy sets out the specific parts of the home covered by the policy 
in years 3-10. Because internal plumbing isnt one of these, Mr and Mrs D dont have 
recourse to NHBC for damage thats occurred in respect of the internal plumbing during this 
time. So, Im satisfied NHBC has acted fairly in declining this part of their claim.
Below-ground drainage
Below-ground drainage is a specified part under the Buildmark policy  but cover is only 
provided if theres damage as a result of a defect. 
Ive looked at the photographs provided by Mr and Mrs D which show damage to parts of 
their home. Mr and Mrs D have however, acknowledged they cant provide evidence of 
damage to the soil pipe below ground level due to not having access to it. Mr D has 
explained how the rodents were able to travel alongside the soil pipe (below-ground level) 
having chewed through the sealant where the soil pipe goes below ground. 
Ive thought about this, but Im not persuaded NHBC needs to take any action and Ill explain 
why. The policy requires the damage to be in the below ground drainage which I interpret to 
mean, for example, damage to the pipework itself, or a blockage within it. But I dont have 
evidence of this. Ive thought about whether the photographs showing the sealant having 
been chewed is enough, but Im not satisfied it is, for two reasons. 
1. the sealant isnt below ground level  so it doesnt fulfil the specified part 
criterion, and
2. the sealant is separate to the drainage  theres nothing to suggest the sealant is 
required for the drainage to function, so its not part of the underground drainage 
system. 
But even if I was satisfied damage had occurred in the soil pipe below ground, Im not 
persuaded there would have been a breach of the technical requirement. 
Technical requirement R3 states that all materials, products and building systems shall be 
suitable for their intended purpose. Ive looked at the relevant performance standards  
which outline how the technical requirement must be met for the relevant part of the building. 
I note plastic piping is cited as a material which can be used for the purpose of soil and 
waste drainage and British Standards refer to the accepted use of polypropylene for this. So, 
Im not persuaded the technical requirement hasnt been met because plastic piping has 
been used for soil and waste in Mr and Mrs Ds home. And from what Ive seen, the pipes 
are functioning as intended.I appreciate Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed by my decision but the Buildmark policy is not 
designed to apply to all parts of the property, nor all eventualities. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman