DRN-4041631
The complaint
Mrs B complains through a representative that Mutual Clothing Supply Company Limited 
trading as Mutual (Mutual) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks before it advanced 
loans to her. 
What happened
Mrs B took at least two loans from Mutual between April and October 2011. Ive outlined a 
summary of her borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)monthly 
repayment
1 £1,000.00 16/04/2011 24/08/2016 102 £15.19
2 £500.00 29/10/2011 10/08/2016 51 £13.72
Following Mrs Bs complaint, Mutual issued its final response letter in June 2022 to her 
representative. It explained the process that each of Mrs Bs application wouldve gone 
through. However, it didnt consider the complaint because it felt that Mrs B had complained 
too late  and more than six years after the loans were advanced. 
Mrs Bs representative didnt agree and instead referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The adjudicator then considered the jurisdiction objection raised by Mutual  that being 
Mrs B had complained too late. He issued an assessment, saying based on what he had 
seen he was satisfied the complaint had been referred here within the relevant time limits 
that must be applied. Mutual accepted this assessment and therefore the jurisdiction dispute 
had been resolved. 
The merits of the complaint were then considered by an adjudicator who in his assessment 
said that for before both loans which were approved, Mutual ought to have carried out further 
checks which couldve included verifying the information provided by Mrs B. However, the 
complaint couldnt be upheld because Mrs B hadnt provided copies of her bank statements 
so the adjudicator couldnt say what Mutual may have seen had it made better checks. The 
complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mutual didnt respond to, or acknowledge, the assessment. 
Mrs B, through her representative didnt agree with the outcome. She explained she couldnt 
provide any extra paperwork and she thought Mutual were not providing the full facts. She 
instead, asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mutual had to assess the lending to check if Mrs B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mutuals checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mutual should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include:
Mrs B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs B.
Mutual was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs B was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.
To begin with, Mutual says the two loans listed above are the only ones that it can locate 
within its systems  which given the amount of time since these loans were granted isnt that 
surprising. It is of course possible that further loans were granted to Mrs B prior to 2011, 
indeed her representative said in the complaint letter to Mutual that Mrs B had taken up to 15 
loans from 2007. But her representative made it clear this was only her recollection. 
However, as neither party has supplied any additional paperwork or evidence to suggest 
there were up to 15 loans, I can only assess Mrs Bs complaint on the basis that there were 
only two loans as I have nothing else to suggest otherwise. Mutual, based on the information provided, carried out the same sort of checks before each 
loan was granted. For the first loan, Mrs B gave details of her employment and that she 
earned £265 per week. 
On top of this, it asked for her outgoings including rent and her other commitments. Which 
came to £121. Mrs B told Mutual agent the purpose of the loan was for home improvements. 
Loan 2 was taken while loan 1 was being repaid which led to total weekly commitments of 
£28.91. For this loan Mrs B told the agent it was to be used Christmas shopping. She 
declared the same weekly income, from the same employer and her weekly outgoings had 
increased to £128 per week (before either of the loan repayments were considered).  
Even with this smaller disposable income figure there was still sufficient money for Mutual to 
believe Mrs B could afford her repayments. These loans looked affordable.
It doesnt appear that any other checks were carried out by Mutual before it advanced these 
loans. But given, the relatively modest income Mrs B had declared, and the fact, that she 
was committing to repaying Mutual for a period of two years ought to, in my view have 
prompted Mutual to have carried out further checks before these two loans were granted. 
So I do think Mutual needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Bs actual financial position 
to ensure these loans were affordable beyond relying on what Mrs B had declared about her 
income and outgoings. 
Mutual couldve carried out these additional checks, in a number of ways, it couldve asked 
for evidence of her outgoings such as copy bills or it couldve asked to see copies of 
Mrs Bs bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain in order to 
satisfy itself that it had carried out more robust checks. 
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loans, I have to be 
satisfied that had Mutual carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Mrs B couldnt afford her repayments or discovered it that the lending 
was likely unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Mrs B has said that she cant provide any more paperwork, which I have taken to mean she 
cant provide her bank statements from around the time these loans were approved. But this 
does mean, I cant say what Mutual may have seen had it carried out the types of checks 
which I consider to be proportionate. It therefore follows that I cant say that Mutual may 
have discovered these loans were unaffordable for Mrs B and I therefore cannot uphold her 
complaint about these two loans. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman