DRN-3247233
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as J, complains that Starling Bank Limited treated it unfairly by 
freezing its business current account and requesting repayment of its Bounce Back Loan. 
The complaint has been brought to the service by Js director, Mr A.
What happened
In 2020, J successfully applied for a £20,000 Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with Starling 
of which around £4,000 had been used.
In April 2021, a notice for a compulsory strike off for J was registered on Companies 
House. 
Js account was restricted by Starling, as the bank said J had breached the terms of 
the BBL agreement. 
Mr A told us:
He wasnt aware that Js accountant hadnt filed the businesss financial accounts 
which had caused the strike off action to be registered.
Hed asked Js accountant to submit the accounts, but they werent prepared to do 
this as J owed £700 in fees and they wanted this paid first. 
Hed explained to Starling shortly after the strike off action had been registered, that 
there had been a mistake with submitting Js financial accounts which he would 
resolve within two weeks - but the bank wouldnt remove the restriction on the current 
account so he could pay the fees. 
Hes been caused financial difficulty and inconvenience as J hasnt been able to 
trade without access to the business account, so hes had no income. 
To put things right, he wants Js account restored so he can use the remainder of the 
BBL funds to pay the accountant and trade again. 
Starling told us:
J caused an event of default under the terms of the BBL when the compulsory strike 
off action was registered at Companies House, so it had asked for the loan to be 
repaid in full, which was in line with the agreement
Mr A had explained what had happened with the accountant and asked the bank not 
to recall the BBL funds. However, it was over a year later and the strike-off action 
had still only been suspended, not removed.
It was happy to look at a repayment plan with J for the outstanding balance once the 
strike off action had been removed from Companies House.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said it was reasonable for 
Starling to say that an Event of Default had taken place and to lodge an objection with 
Companies House to prevent it striking J off the register, so it could protect its financial 
position. And although he thought it could be argued that Starling had chosen to restrict Js 
accounts and BBL funds too quickly, he didnt think this had prejudiced Js position as the 
company still hadnt resolved the strike off action with Companies House after eight months.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into Js complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says Starling acted unfairly when it froze Js account, thereby restricting the companys 
access to its BBL funds. And that this caused him financial difficulty as he needed access to 
Js account to continue the business and pay the outstanding accountancy bill. However, the 
terms and conditions of Js business current account say, in summary, that that the account 
can be restricted or closed if the company is wound up, removed from the Companies House 
register, or if any step is taken towards the winding up, dissolution, or insolvency of the 
company. I think it was reasonable for Starling to restrict Js account to limit its liability, as 
the first notification it received was from Companies House of the strike off action, and it 
wanted further information from J before taking further action. 
Mr A is also unhappy that Starling wouldnt allow him to access the remaining balance of the 
BBL, which was around £16,000. But the BBL agreement says that an Event of Default will 
occur if a borrower is subject to an Insolvency Event, or if an event occurs which is likely to 
materially and adversely affect a borrowers ability to comply with the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, Starling thought the Companies House strike off notification was 
sufficient to call an Event of Default. And under the agreement, when an Event of Default 
occurs, Starling can cancel the loan agreement and demand immediate repayment of the 
outstanding balance  meaning that any balance which hadnt been drawn would no longer 
be available. 
Mr A told us that when Starling became aware that J was due to be struck off Companies 
House in April 2021, the bank only gave him fourteen days to get the issue resolved before it 
took action to default the loan. I recognise Mr A says that he thought Js accountant had 
actioned this, and that the timescale the bank gave him to resolve the issue was unfair as 
hed explained he had taken steps to remove the strike off action, but this could take up to 
six weeks. However, the bank gave Mr A longer that it was required to under the terms of the 
agreement to resolve the issues before it defaulted the loan. And even if I thought Starling 
should have given Mr A the six weeks from mid-April 2021, that he said it would take, its 
now over fifteen months later and the strike off action hasnt been removed.
Mr A has told us that he wasnt able to remove the strike off action without the £700 to pay 
his accountant, which I understand due to his circumstances he couldnt afford. However, in 
January 2022, our investigator advised Mr A how he could take the actions needed on 
Companies House himself for a relatively small fee of £13. This meant he didnt need to 
involve his accountant or pay the £700 fee to take the necessary action to remove the strike 
off action  but at the time of writing the decision this has yet to take place. 
So in view of the above and the impasse between Mr A and the bank over releasing the 
£700, I think its likely the strike off action would have remained on Companies House after 
the six weeks, and Starling would have defaulted Js loan at that point anyway. So I dont 
think J was negatively impacted by the shorter timescale given by the bank to apply the 
default. 
So based on everything Ive seen, I cant reasonably say that Starling has treated J unfairly. I 
acknowledge that Mr A says hes been left in a difficult position as he needs access to Js 
account to move forward. But Starling has said it will remove the restriction on Js account as 
soon as the strike off action is cleared from Companies House. So whilst I acknowledge Mr A has found himself in a difficult situation, I think the banks actions have been 
reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman