DRN-1885180
The complaint
Mrs W complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc declined her home insurance claim for 
storm damage to her roof and that it wouldnt pay for damage to her chimney. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs W heard a bang outside and noticed her television channels no longer 
worked. On inspecting the roof, Mrs W discovered that the television aerial that had been 
fixed to the chimney stack had fallen over damaging some tiles. Mrs W called out an aerial 
repair man who told her that he couldnt repair the aerial until the chimney was repaired first. 
Mrs W then had a roofer out to look at the damage to the chimney but he couldnt get a 
proper look at the state of it without first erecting scaffolding. 
About three weeks later Mrs W made a claim under her home insurance policy for damage 
to her chimney, aerial and roof which was caused by high winds on the night in question. 
During the phone call to first log the loss, St Andrews told Mrs W that her claim was 
declined because there were no storm conditions on or around the night in question. 
Mrs W disagreed with St Andrews decision so she complained and said that something may 
have hit the roof. St Andrews noted that Mrs Ws policy included additional accidental 
damage cover so it agreed it would send someone out to have a look. The surveyor that 
attended noted that the aerial had been dislodged but was still partially anchored to the 
chimney stack. And he thought that several tiles had been dislodged when the aerial 
impacted the roof. But he thought the damage was the result of wear and tear rather than as 
a result of a storm. The surveyor declined the claim on site. 
Mrs W complained to St Andrews again and it reviewed its decision. It said that as thered 
been damage to the roof tiles when the aerial became dislodged it could consider that under 
the additional accidental damage section of Mrs Ws policy. Mrs W remained unhappy and 
said she wanted the damage to the chimney itself also considered. 
St Andrews looked into Mrs Ws complaint and upheld it. Whilst it said that her claim wasnt 
consistent with storm damage, she did have additional accidental damage cover under her 
policy under which the damage to her roof tiles could be considered. So, it said that it had 
been wrong to decline her claim in its entirety after the surveyors visit. St Andrews 
apologised for the inconvenience it had caused her, paid her compensation of £75 and 
referred her claim back to its claims department to consider. 
Unhappy that St Andrews wouldnt consider paying for the damage to her chimney, Mrs W 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked into her complaint but didnt think that 
St Andrews had treated Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably so she didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. Mrs W disagreed with out investigator. She said thered been high winds but for 
which the chimney and aerial wouldnt have been damaged. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the events listed in the policy  by fire, theft, storm, flood etc.  will be 
covered. If the policyholder can show the damage they are claiming for has been caused by 
one of the events listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the claim unless it can rely on 
one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. 
Mrs W has claimed under her policy for damage to her chimney, aerial and roof tiles which 
she says were damaged in a storm at the start of June 2019. The terms and conditions of 
Mrs Ws policy define what is meant by a storm namely, a period of violent weather defined 
as winds with gusts of at least 55mph sometimes accompanied by rain, hail or snow of such 
intensity that it can cause damage to hard surfaces or glass. 
Ive seen the weather report from a weather station close to Mrs Ws house for the day on 
which the damage occurred. It records there were gusts that reached a maximum speed of 
32mph. Whilst I accept that gusts of this speed would be windy they cant be said to amount 
to storm conditions. If there was no storm on the day the damage occurred then the damage 
reported by Mrs W cant have been caused by a storm. So, it follows that I dont think 
St Andrews has unreasonably declined to cover it under the storm event listed in the policy. 
But I can see that Mrs W also has additional accidental damage cover under her policy. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy terms as being an accident that causes physical 
damage which is caused suddenly by an outside force that is neither expected or deliberate. 
St Andrews (albeit not immediately) has considered whether the damage to the chimney, 
aerial and tiles can be considered under this section of the policy. And it has accepted that 
the damage to the tiles  caused by the aerial impacting the roof  is covered. That was 
sudden damage caused by an outside force (the aerial impacting the roof) that was 
unexpected. 
But St Andrews says the damage to the chimney and the aerial isnt covered by the 
accidental damage section. Thats because its surveyor, having inspected the roof, reported 
that the damage to the chimney was consistent with the failure of the mortar bedding and 
that the aerial had become detached due to there being wear and tear to its anchoring. Both 
occurred over time  not suddenly by an unexpected outside force. Such damage doesnt 
meet the policy definition of being accidental in nature. And damage thats the result of 
wear and tear is excluded from cover too. So, unfortunately for Mrs W it means her policy 
doesnt cover her for all the damage shes claimed for. 
I appreciate that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W but I cant fairly make 
St Andrews pay for damage to her chimney and aerial that isnt covered by the policy terms. 
I can see that St Andrews put Mrs W to some inconvenience by failing to consider sooner 
the damage shed reported under the accidental damage cover section. But I can also see 
that its apologised for doing so and has paid her compensation of £75 as a result. I think the 
compensation St Andrews has paid is fair in the circumstances of this complaint and is in 
line with this services approach to such awards generally. I cant fairly make it pay any 
more. 
Finally, I note that Mrs W paid to have the repairs to her tiles done herself and told 
St Andrews she didnt want to receive reimbursement because she was still hoping the 
chimney damage would be covered as well. St Andrews has told us that it has since contacted Mrs W to try to arrange settlement and Im satisfied from what it has told us that it 
is willing to arrange to indemnify Mrs W for the damage to her roof tiles. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman