DRN-1863565
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited wont meet his claim for his lost phone 
under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B upgraded his mobile phone, and the day after he took out insurance on 
the phone.
Ten days after upgrading his phone, he contacted Assurant to register a claim  explaining 
hed lost it 2-3 days earlier but wasnt able to say how. Assurant sent Mr B a claim form, and 
during their claims process he said hed used the phone once to understand what it could 
do. He said this included watching videos and carrying out some searches  but as hes not 
very good with technology his daughter set up the phone and showed him these things.
Assurant turned down the claim. They said it wasnt possible for Mr B to have accessed the 
websites he says he did because the phone had never been activated. So, they felt hed 
provided mis-leading information.
Mr B didnt accept this as he felt Assurant were calling him a liar. Assurant replied to the 
complaint and said hed told them hed checked various applications on the phone. But their 
investigations had shown the phone had never been activated. Assurant said there was a 
term in Mr Bs policy that says if false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is 
proven they may reject the claim. So, because of this term, they turned down Mr Bs claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr B asked our service to look into things. One of our investigators did 
so, and in summary felt Assurant had acted fairly in turning down the claim.
Mr B didnt agree with this, he said he felt hed been ripped off, and wanted to take things as 
far as he can. Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain my role isnt to reassess Mr Bs claim, but to look at whether I 
think Assurant have acted fairly in turning it down. I wish to make it clear Im not doubting 
what Mr B has said but having considered carefully all the information Assurant and Mr B 
have provided, I do think theyve turned down his claim fairly.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy say when submitting a claim reasonable care 
needs to be taken to answer the questions  and if false or inaccurate information is 
provided, and fraud is identified, then the claim may not be met.
So, Ive listened to the call where Assurant asked Mr B more questions. In this call Mr B says 
his phone had been used to play with the camera and access some websites  and his 
daughter helped him with this. Assurant said they felt Mr B was providing general 
information, asked for more specific information  and then when Mr B wasnt able to provide 
it asked to speak to his daughter as shed helped him with his phone. Mr B though wasnt 
prepared to allow this  explaining it was his policy.
In listening to the call Mr B does say his phone was used. But Ive also seen Assurants 
information that shows Mr Bs phone was never activated  this was provided to them by the 
manufacturer of the phone. In order to access the websites Mr B says he did, the phone 
would have needed to have been activated.
This means the information Mr B has given Assurant has been directly contradicted. 
Because of this, I think Assurant have acted fairly in turning down the claim based on the 
information they had.
Ive noted Mr Bs concern about Assurant calling him a liar  and that if thats the case then 
they should report him to the police. But, thats a decision for them to make, and not 
something I could compel them to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman