DRN-3585636
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs R bought solar panels for her home in April 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mrs R says the installer misled her into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent. The CMC added that the installer didnt 
make it clear that the panels would cost more than their cash price, because of the interest 
on the loan.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs R and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. In summary, 
that is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the 
estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the 
cost. And the loan agreement made it clear that it was an interest-bearing loan, and how 
much would have to be repaid in total.
Cost vs benefit
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, the contract says in bold capital letters 
Estimated total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right is the figure £214.65. I think 
this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To the left it says that the 
finance amount is £7,775, payable over ten years. This document was signed by Mrs R 
immediately below those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to 
bring this information to her attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs R could 
be forgiven for overlooking it when comparing the first year benefit with the annual cost. 
However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £777.50 each year. That 
is between three and four times the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this 
is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs R about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
True cost
Im satisfied that the loan agreement made it very clear that interest would be charged on the 
loan, and how much. It stated both the cash price and the total amount repayable. It was not 
misleading.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman