DRN-2751144
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr C payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage. The 
PPI started in 2003. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs and Mr C have said the PPI was added without them being given an option to choose. 
Although none of the original documents from the time are now available, from what we 
know of Bank of Scotlands practices at this time, the PPI would normally have been 
presented as a choice, and only added if the customer clearly agreed to it. And Im aware 
that this did happen very many years ago, and I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail 
everything that happened so long ago. So it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely 
fully on everything they remember. 
In view of this, I would need there to be stronger evidence that Bank of Scotland probably 
did something wrong in this way. In the absence of that, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on 
this point. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mrs and Mr Cs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mrs and Mr Cs situation at the 
time: 
Its likely Mrs and Mr C were eligible for the policy, and so would have been able to 
make a claim if necessary. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time that Mrs and Mr C received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it seems Mrs and Mr C didnt have 
substantial other means to fall back on to pay their mortgage and other living costs. 
And even if they had, the PPI benefits would have delayed the time theyd need to 
call on those other means. This all would have put Mrs and Mr C in a more secure 
position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr C would have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mrs and Mr C took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its 
unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman