DRN-1521756
The complaint
Mr L complains that Temple Finance Limited rejected his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a sofa which he says isnt of satisfactory quality. 
 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L was supplied with a sofa from a retailer. There were some issues 
with the sofa when it was delivered, and Mr L returned it for a different one.
The new sofa was delivered in January 2019. In May 2019 Mr L removed the cushion covers 
to wash them and the velcro was torn in the process. Mr L contacted the supplier, but it 
didnt agree that the sofa was faulty and advised Mr L to claim under an insurance policy he 
had taken out. Mr L did this and was provided with some new sofa covers which he fitted 
himself.
After a few weeks, Mr L noticed that the cushions had gone very soft and were causing his 
back to ache. On inspection, Mr L found that the cushion covers were loose, and the 
material was bobbled. He also found fading in some areas.
Mr L asked for the sofa to be inspected but this didnt happen. So, he brought his complaint 
to this service.
During the course of the investigation by this service the sofa was inspected. The inspection 
report said the seats showed normal settlement for a sofa of this age and found that the 
bobbling was normal for the fabric.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said the inspection had been carried out by a company which carried 
out repair for the supplier of the sofa and he didnt accept that the issues with the sofa were 
due to normal wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view. I know that this will disappoint Mr L, so Ill explain why.
The relevant law says, amongst other thigs, that the sofa must be of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account 
things such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, appearance and finish and durability.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in certain circumstances the finance 
company can be held equally liable with the supplier of goods if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the goods must be of 
satisfactory quality. If they arent, a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
I can see that Mr L reported faults with the sofa in May 2019 which related to the covers 
being removed. The covers were replaced and theres been no further issues with the velcro 
so Im treating this issue as resolved.
Mr L reported further faults in July 2019. He said the cushions had gone soft, and the fabric 
was bobbly and faded in places.
Ive looked at the photos supplied by Mr L. I can see some bobbling on the arms of the sofa 
and the cushions look a bit saggy. I couldnt see any fading.
Ive also looked at the inspection report and the photos. These show that the cushions are 
slightly sunken, and the covers are loose. There are also some photos showing the cushions 
after they have been plumped up and these look much better. The report concludes that the 
condition the sofa was satisfactory and that its normal for a cushion to be soft.
I appreciate that Mr L disagrees with the report and feels that the company who inspected 
the sofa werent independent. I havent seen anything to suggest that the inspector wasnt 
qualified to inspect the sofa and provide a report. Mr L was invited to obtain his own 
inspection report, but he hasnt done this.
Taking all of the available information into account, there isnt enough evidence to persuade 
me that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality. The inspection report says the condition of the 
sofa is as expected. Id expect a sofa to show some signs of wear and tear after several 
months, especially as its an item which tends to be in everyday use. 
On balance, Im persuaded that the issues with the sofa are fair wear and tear as opposed to 
faults.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman