DRN-3097769
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a subsidence claim he made on his 
home insurance policy.
  
What happened
The circumstances to this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
In February 2020 Mr F noticed damage to his garage and got in touch with Aviva.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster who carried out a desktop review of the damage 
and declined the claim. They said the damage was indicative of settlement, which 
usually happens within ten years of construction, and isnt covered by the policy.
Mr F didnt think this was fair because his garage was 20 years old. He complained 
and suggested he may take advice from a structural engineer.
The loss adjuster provided a response on behalf of Aviva, which said the complaint 
was resolved. But it also offered to visit Mr F when restrictions eased.
Later, the loss adjuster inspected the damage and carried out investigations. In 
summary, it maintained the damage was caused by settlement.
Mr F took advice from a structural engineer, M, who said the damage was caused by 
subsidence, and shared the report with Aviva in January 2021.
In July 2021 the loss adjuster got in touch with to Mr F to accept the claim and 
arrange the next steps.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas policy covers damage caused by subsidence  but not settlement. In the policy the 
word settlement is defined as the downward movement of the land as a result of 
compaction due to the weight of the building. I understand this is what the loss adjuster 
thought had happened.
M arranged for investigations into the ground and drainage conditions and carried out an 
inspection of the damage. It also considered the investigations the loss adjuster had carried 
out. In summary, M found the garage floor had subsided as a result of a leaking drain 
disturbing the subsoil. It said settlement typically occurred in the early life of a building and 
considered it unlikely the garage had settled.
Aviva has recently agreed the claim should be accepted. Based on the expert evidence 
provided by M, Im persuaded this is a conclusion Aviva should have reached much sooner. 
Given the age of the garage, it was unlikely to be suffering from settlement. M identified the 
garage was built on a sandy soil, which is susceptible to movement from water leaks, and 
found a drain was blocked near to the area of the damage. Aviva carried out ground and 
drainage surveys but didnt reach the same conclusion about the cause of damage. Its 
unclear why.
Its also unclear why Aviva didnt act promptly when it received Ms report in January. It 
seems to have taken the next steps in July, six months later.
As a result, Im satisfied Mr Fs claim has been unnecessarily delayed by over a year. During 
that time Mr F has had to live with the damage, the uncertainty of how it will be resolved  
and who will pay for it. Ive also seen evidence that hes spent time and effort chasing Aviva 
and the loss adjuster for progress, often without prompt replies. So I think Mr F has been 
caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by the way Aviva has dealt with his claim. I 
consider £1,000 is reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Mr F has also lost out financially. In order to have the claim accepted, hes paid £1,686.48 
for the structural engineers advice. He also paid £225 for the ground investigation and £175 
for the drainage investigation. These figures have been put to Aviva, who havent disputed 
them. Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr F these amounts, plus interest, 
as Mr F has been without the money unnecessarily. Interest is calculated from the date Mr F 
paid these amounts. I understand the two investigations were paid in cash and its likely an 
exact date of payment will be difficult to evidence. For simplicity I suggest taking the date he 
paid the structural engineer as the date for all three of these costs.
In my view, paying the compensation and financial loss Ive set out above will put right the 
problems caused by Aviva not accepting the claim earlier, as it should have done.
Mr F has also incurred other costs which hed like Aviva to pay for. In brief they are:
Party wall advice
Dismantling a cupboard and ductwork damaged by subsidence
Skip hire to dispose of the damaged items
Storage hire for the contents of the garage (which I understand includes an on-going 
monthly charge)
These are costs which would usually form part of the subsidence claim. Ordinarily Id ask 
Aviva to consider them as part of dealing with the claim. But I understand Mr F has raised 
these costs with the loss adjuster, but an agreement is yet to be reached. In the interest of 
resolving this dispute and allowing the focus to turn to progressing the claim itself, I suggest 
consideration of these costs is included in this complaint.
In response to this provisional decision, Id like Mr F to confirm the finalised costs for each 
item, with invoices where possible. And Id like Aviva to confirm whether it agrees or 
disagrees to pay each of these costs. If it considers it needs further information to make that 
decision, it should confirm what that evidence is. Ill then let both parties know what I 
consider fair before I make a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F seemed to accept my provisional findings and the remedy Id suggested  Aviva 
accepting the claim, paying for the engineers report and investigations, and compensation. 
He clarified the other costs he was asking Aviva to pay and provided information to support 
them. He said hed also spent money on legal advice to help him understand how to 
challenge Avivas decision and provided evidence of these costs. In total, the legal and other 
costs came to over £6,000.
Aviva agreed to reimburse all of these costs and has already made that payment to Mr F. Im 
satisfied Aviva has settled these costs fairly and promptly. Its also agreed to pay the on-
going storage hire costs, subject to Mr F providing evidence of them as he incurs them. 
Aviva didnt comment on my provisional decision, so I understand that means its accepted 
the remedy Id suggested was a fair way to resolve this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change it.
Mr F noted that whilst Aviva has paid the additional costs hed asked it to, it hadnt paid the 
costs Id set out in my remedy. I think its likely Aviva has waited for my final decision to 
confirm the remedy before making any payments.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Accept the claim and provide written confirmation of this to Mr F
Pay £1,000 compensation
Pay £2,086.48 for the structural engineer report and investigations
pay simple interest* at 8% a year on £2,086.48, from the date it was paid by Mr F 
until the date Aviva settles it.
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman