DRN-3038545
The complaint
Mr T complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) didnt assist him after he was 
furloughed. He says he contacted Drafty a number of different ways and didnt receive any 
help or support. 
What happened
Mr T had a Drafty credit facility and he entered a repayment plan with it in March 2019. Mr T 
stuck to this plan, until March 2020 when as a result of redundancies and being furloughed 
he needed further assistance from Drafty, because he wouldnt be in a position to pay what 
he previously agreed. 
What follows is a brief overview of the contact between Mr T and Drafty. Ive not included the 
times and dates of every email, as I dont think it is needed.
 
Mr T didnt get a response to his email about his potential repayment problems until April 
2020, at which point Mr T informed Drafty he had been placed on furlough. What followed, 
were a number of emails between Mr T and Drafty. Mr T also seems to have tried to contact 
Drafty over the phone, without success. 
In June 2020 Drafty emailed Mr T to say that hed missed payments and he needed to follow 
a link imbedded in the email to adjust the payment plan or he could use live chat to contact 
it. 
Following a complaint to Drafty, it issued a final response letter (sent by email) to Mr T on 11 
August 2020. It explained that since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic it had to close its 
phone lines and although it directed people to email or use live chat this had led to 
unprecedented demand, which resulted in delays. 
It also explained it had previously offered Mr T the chance to rearrange his repayment plan. 
But it went onto say that if he could do a current income and expenditure list it would look at 
it again because Drafty didnt want to place undue financial pressure on Mr T. 
 
Mr T then brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it should be partly upheld. She said, she 
could see there had been a number of emails that Mr T had sent to Drafty which went 
unanswered. So, for the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr T she 
recommended Drafty pay compensation of £150. She also asked Drafty to remove any 
negative information from Mr Ts credit file that had been recorded during the time that Mr T 
couldnt get hold of Drafty. 
She also explained, why in her view this service wouldnt be in a position to ask Drafty to 
write off the current outstanding balance, which as of December 2020 was £708.89.
Drafty responded and agreed with the adjudicators recommendation. It agreed to pay 
compensation into the bank account that it holds for Mr T (or if Mr T wanted he could use the 
compensation to reduce his outstanding balance). It also agreed to remove any adverse 
information in reference to Mr Ts account from his credit file from 26 March 2020  this was 
the day that Mr T first contacted Drafty. 
Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators findings. He said he understood the outcome but 
wasnt happy. He went on to say that the amount of stress he has suffered is ridiculous and 
he wanted the case looking into further.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with, Drafty has accepted something went wrong when Mr T tried to contact it, after 
all it has already agreed to settle the complaint in line with what the adjudicators 
recommendation. So, there is no dispute around whether Drafty did anything wrong, 
because based on what Ive seen it did. But the crux of this complaint is whether the amount 
of compensation recommended by the adjudicator is fair. 
Having looked at all the information and evidence Im satisfied, like the adjudicator that 
Drafty caused Mr T distress and inconvenience but the amount Drafty has already agreed to 
pay is fair and reasonable, in my view, and so it doesnt have to pay anymore. Ive outlined 
below why this is the case. 
When this service decides something has gone wrong, we try, as far as possible to put the 
consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had an error not been made. But that 
isnt always possible.
In this case, had Drafty reacted to Mr Ts emails, its likely something wouldve been agreed 
for example, reducing the amount that Mr T was paying Drafty each month. Which is why I 
think updating Mr Ts credit file in the manner Drafty has agreed is reasonable. But that 
doesnt deal with the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T.
 
In this case, the error was not dealing with Mr T when Drafty knew it was likely he was going 
to have ongoing financial problems caused by the pandemic. Mr T spent time dealing with 
this and didnt get a response for a number of weeks. So, its right, that Draft pays Mr T 
compensation. 
The level of compensation this service may award, isnt designed to fine or punish Drafty for 
the errors that it has caused. Any compensation awarded is to recognise Mr T was 
inconvenience by what happened. Clearly, this was a worrying time for Mr T given he was on 
a repayment plan and due to factors outside of his control he needed to reduce the amount 
he was repaying. 
But, given what Mr T has said, and the purpose of any compensation award this service may 
make, I consider the amount the adjudicator recommended and what Drafty has agreed to 
pay to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive thought about what Mr T says about writing the debt off, but like the adjudicator, I dont 
consider that to be reasonable. Mr T has borrowed and had use of the funds, and while 
Drafty has made errors in how it dealt with Mr T, that doesnt in my mind mean that is fair for 
the balance to be written off. So, Im not recommending that Drafty does this.
 Taking everything into account, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill be directing Drafty to 
do what it has already agreed to do in order to settle the complaint. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T. But I hope that hell understand why Ive 
reached the findings that I have. 
Putting things right
So, in line with what the adjudicator recommended and what Drafty has already agreed to, it 
should:
pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and
remove any negative information from Mr Ts credit file from when he first contacted 
Drafty on 26 March 2020.
 
If Mr T accepts the decision, then he should check with Drafty which bank account details it 
holds for him are correct to enable the payment of compensation to be paid.
 
If an outstanding balance does remain, then Id remind Drafty of its obligation to treat Mr T 
fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Ts complaint.
 
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mr T as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman