DRN-4263648
The complaint
Miss G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt give her appropriate advice when it agreed to 
breathing space.
What happened
Miss G says she was in financial difficulties and asked Monza for help. She says she was 
given breathing space but says it wasnt made clear that she still needed to make required 
payments and says the payment schedule said the amount needed to pay was zero. Miss 
G says Monza made her position worse and would like compensation as well as an apology. 
She would also like her credit file amended.
Monza says it froze interest on accounts in late 2022 and told Miss G it would not take a 
payment on a loan account. It says it advised Miss G in writing what it was doing to try and 
help her but says a payment was still required. It also says that Miss G could have made a 
manual payment and contacted it about payment amounts.
Miss G brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Monza had tried to help Miss G and made the position clear.
Miss G accepts that a payment was required but says her statements said zero for the 
amount on one account. She questions how much she was meant to pay in those 
circumstances.
Monza in answer to further questions I raised says Miss G could have called it but says she 
told it she was in financial difficulties and so it wasnt expecting any payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Lenders should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I can 
see that Monza agreed to a two-month breathing space and so I think did act in such a way.
The key part of the complaint is what Monza explained to Miss G when it agreed the 
breathing space. I have looked carefully at Monzas records and am satisfied it clearly 
explained the position to Miss G. I can see it explained what would happen to each account 
and that it would not take the required payment for the loan but that a manual payment could 
be made. I think that it clear Miss G was in financial difficulties and that Monza wasnt 
expecting payments to be made. There is no need for me to repeat exactly what Miss G was 
told by Monza, but Im satisfied that it explained the position and implications of the 
breathing space.
I appreciate Miss G says on one account the payment amount was shown as zero. I dont 
think that was a mistake as Monza had agreed that it would be shown in that way. I also 
think that Miss G, if she was able to afford a payment, could have contacted Monza about 
the amount. It follows that I dont think Monza has made a mistake or acted unfairly here. 
And I cant order it to pay compensation or amend Miss Gs credit file in these circumstances 
as Monza is obliged to accurately report the account position of its customers to the Credit 
Reference Agencies.
Overall, I find Monza did explain what a breathing space would mean for Miss G. I can also 
see Miss G told Monza she was speaking to a debt company about her situation and that it 
tried to help her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman