DRN-3250467
The complaint
Mr O says OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent to him irresponsibly. 
His representative said that Likely Loans didnt do proportionate checks. And if it had done it 
wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Likely Loans provided to Mr O. In July 2017 Mr O borrowed 
£1,500 to purchase a car. He was due to make 24 repayments of just under £100. Mr O 
repaid the loan in full. He made 18 scheduled repayments and then settled the loan early. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the checks the business had made 
didnt show the loan was irresponsibly lent. And the information the consumer had provided 
as part of the complaint also didnt show that Mr O couldnt afford the repayments. 
Mr Os representative didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. It didnt say why it didnt 
agree. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Os complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr O would be able to repay loans in a sustainable way and:
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable for Mr O. In practice this meant that business had to 
ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr O undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive outlined the payments and the term of the loan above. Ive seen a record of the 
information Mr O provided when he completed his loan application. Mr O said he had a 
yearly income of £30,000. 
Likely Loans didnt ask specific questions about Mr Os expenditure, but it recorded that he 
was living with his parents. It said that it used statistical analysis to determine that the loan 
was affordable. And this doesnt seem unreasonable here, given the modest loan 
repayments against Mr Os income. 
Likely Loans also looked at some information from Mr Os credit file and this didnt show that 
he was having problems repaying any existing debt. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its reasonable to say Likely Loans was 
made aware of any financial problems Mr O mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. The bank statement information Mr O 
has provided doesnt show that he was in financial difficulty. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Likely Loans to rely on the information it obtained.
Ive also thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.So overall, in these circumstances, I think Likely Loans decision to lend was reasonable and 
Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman