DRN-1687208
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Klarna Bank AB (publ) issued arrears correspondence and charged 
her a late payment fee, following her loan being repaid in full. 
What happened
Mrs C had a loan for her mobile phone, originally taken with Close Brothers, but is now with 
Klarna. On 29 March 2019, she requested a settlement figure for the loan and decided to 
settle the loan during that call. She was sent a letter the same day to confirm her account 
had been settled in full and no further payments were due. 
A few days later, on 3 April 2019, Mrs C was sent two letters, one explaining the payment 
due had failed because her direct debit had been cancelled and another to explain a late 
payment default charge of £12 had been made. 
Mrs C contacted Klarna who confirmed it was a mistake and that she would be sent a new 
letter about the loan being settled. But this didn't materialise and so she complained about 
what had happened. Klarna didn't uphold the complaint; it said the charge had been made in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan, but as a gesture of goodwill, the 
charge was removed. 
Mrs C asked us to look into her complaint. We asked for Klarna's file. It conducted a further 
investigation into the complaint and issued a new final response upholding it. It explained the 
direct debit collection due for the next payment had already been called for when the loan 
was repaid. And when it came back as unpaid she was sent the correspondence. It said this 
was unfortunate timing but confirmed Mrs C's credit file hadn't been affected and that her 
loan had been repaid in full. 
Our investigator was pleased to see that Klarna had provided a fuller explanation for what 
happened. But she upheld the complaint as she felt Mrs C had been caused distress and 
inconvenience not least because it took so long to respond to the complaint, and because it 
had told her the charge was correct when it wasn't, which had contradicted earlier messages 
from staff. She asked Klarna to pay Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C agreed with the outcome. But Klarna didn't. In summary, it felt the actions it took in 
relation to removing the late payment fee was sufficient; Mrs C hadn't suffered a financial 
loss and there was no effect on her credit file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Direct debit collections do start a couple of days in advance of payments being due - this is 
the same with direct debit collections everywhere. So it was unfortunate timing when Mrs C 
settled her loan, at the same time a payment was being called for. And like most businesses, it appears Klarna has an automated system for returned direct debits and notifying 
customers about that. 
Nevetheless, I can understand why Mrs C became upset about being sent arrears 
correspondence and incurring charges when she knew she had settled the loan. Whilst I 
accept front office staff might not be aware of direct debit collection procedures, this was a 
straightforward explanation that Mrs C didn't receive until after the matter was referred to 
us. 
Klarna did remove the charge, which is right as it was incorrectly incurred. And I accept she 
hasn't lost out financially as a result of this. But this office doesn't just make awards for 
financial loss but also for any distress and inconvenience a business's wrong actions have 
caused. Mrs C was told she would be sent a new letter to confirm the loan had been settled 
following her concerns about the late payment fee and arrears correspondence. But this 
never happened. And she was incorrectly told the fee had been applied in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the loan (removed as a gesture) leaving Mrs C with little choice 
than to take this further to get to the bottom of what happened. So she has spent additional 
time pursuing this, when she shouldn't have had to. 
Having considered the matter carefully, I find Mrs C should be fairly compensated for the 
inconvenience this matter has caused, and I find £100 to be fair reflection of that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Klarna Bank 
AB (publ) to pay Mrs C £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman