DRN-3018016
The complaint
Miss M is complaining about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declining 
her claim for her dogs treatment under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in 2016. The policy renewed annually.
From renewal in December 2019 it had an annual limit of £7,000, a condition limit of 
£2,000 and covered an individual condition for 12 months.
On 12 July 2019 Miss Ms dog was treated at her vets for an injury to his leg after 
chasing a cat. The vet noted that the dog was limping on his right leg, with a moderate 
swollen knee area, pain, and intermittent weight bearing. The diagnosis was a possible 
ligament or soft tissue injury and the vet recommended complete rest and painkillers, 
with a review in a couple of days and possibly X-rays.
Miss M says that her dog recovered that evening, so she didnt return him to the vet at 
that time. She says he continued to be well until August 2020, when she noticed that he 
was limping again on his right leg.
On 16 August 2020 Miss M took her dog back to the vets practice. The vet whod seen 
her dog in July 2019 had left the practice, so they were seen by a different vet. During 
this consultation the vet made the following notes:
general - history : 14 months ago jumped. He seems in a lot of pain. O has been giving 
him some extra pain relief. 2 years late with vacc. Holding RH in the air a lot. Some days 
very painful. Seems better when loxicom given
The vet recommended X-rays to diagnose a suspected right cranial cruciate ligament 
injury. On 21 August Miss Ms dog was seen again for the X-Rays, and at the time the vet 
made the following note:
findings : Ongoing lameness on RHL for 1 year now.
Following the X-rays, Miss Ms dog was diagnosed with a partial rupture of the cranial 
crucial ligament. In early September 2020 the dog underwent surgery to treat this. Miss M 
then made a claim for the cost of the operation on her pet insurance policy with Red 
Sands.
Red Sands declined Miss Ms claim. They said the vets notes showed that the onset of 
her dogs cranial cruciate ligament injury was on 12 July 2019. And because this was 
more than 12 months before Miss M claimed for the cost of treating this condition, Red 
Sands said the 12 months cover for this condition had expired.
Miss M didnt agree. She said her dog had injured his leg in July 2019 but he certainly 
wasnt suffering from a ligament rupture at that time. She spoke to an adviser at Red 
Sands, who told her they would look at the claim again if Miss Ms vets could send them 
notes to confirm her dogs visit to the vet on 12 July 2019 was not for the same condition 
Miss M had claimed for.
Miss M contacted her veterinary practice, and they provided a statement from the vet 
whod treated her dog in 2020. Ive set this out below:
I believe the clinical exam last year was not entirely consistent with cruciate ligament 
injury, and as no further investigations were performed at the time, we are not able to say 
with 100% certainty that it was crucial ligament injury vs soft tissue injury. Also I have no 
other clinical notes for time in-between next consult to asses. So I dont know whether 
[Miss Ms dog] had problems with gait/lameness and with the limb affected before the time 
I have seen him.
Red Sands reviewed the vets statement but they didnt change their mind about declining 
Miss Ms claim. They said, in summary, that the medical history confirmed that the clinical 
symptoms of the dogs injury were first noted on 12 July 2019. So they were satisfied that 
Miss Ms claim was correctly declined under the terms and conditions of her policy. They 
told Miss M she could refer her complaint to our service.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and an investigator looked into it. The investigator 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. He said, in summary, that there was enough evidence 
that her dogs symptoms started in July 2019, and that the treatment in August 2020 was 
for the same, ongoing condition. So, he thought Red Sands had acted fairly in declining 
Miss Ms claim.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said her dog was fine by the 
evening after the first incident on 12 July 2019. She said she contacted the vet 
immediately when her dog started to show signs of pain in August 2020, and she 
wouldnt have let her dog suffer with lameness for over a year without taking him back to 
the vet. She didnt think her dogs lameness in July 2019 was related to the cranial 
cruciate ligament injury that was diagnosed in August 2020.
Miss Ms complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 28 July 2021. I provisionally decided that I wasnt 
upholding Miss Ms complaint. This is what I said.
Ive looked at the cover provided by Miss Ms policy with Red Sands. And I can see that it 
sets out how the policy works, as follows:
Time Limited policies mean that your pet will be covered for 365 days after the condition 
is first noted by yourself or your vet. This could mean when symptoms first arose or 
when an accident happened.
The issue in dispute is when the cover period for the cranial cruciate ligament 
condition which resulted in Miss Ms dog needing surgery began.
When considering a complaint like Miss Ms, my starting point is the vets notes from the 
relevant time. Because they were made at the time, its more likely they will reflect what 
was said than an individuals recollections of the conversation some time after the event.
The vets notes from both consultations in August 2020 suggest that Miss Ms dogs 
condition had been ongoing since the consultation in July 2019. The note from 16 August 2020 links the dogs symptoms to the incident he was treated for then. And the note from 
21 August 2020 says there had been ongoing lameness on the same leg for a year.
Miss M says the vets notes are wrong. She says her dog didnt show any symptoms 
between July 2019 and August 2020 and she would have taken him to the vet at the 
first sign of any problem.
Ive considered what Miss Ms said very carefully. And I understand she doesnt think the 
vets notes accurately reflect what happened during the consultations. But I need to 
consider whether it was unfair for Red Sands to have based their decision to decline Miss 
Ms claim on the notes the vet made at the time of the consultations. And overall, I dont 
think it was unfair. The vets opinion at the time the notes were made was that Miss Ms 
dogs condition had been ongoing since 2019, and I dont think Red Sands were 
unreasonable to rely on the vets professional expertise on this point.
When Miss Ms claim was declined she asked her veterinary practice for a follow-up 
statement from the vet to support her claim. The practice emailed the vets statement to 
Red Sands with a covering email saying it was unlikely the lameness in June 2019 was 
due to ligament injury due to the time passed. But I dont think I can place any weight on 
this email, because it doesnt appear to be a direct quote from the vet.
The vets statement itself says that the vet didnt know whether the dog had ongoing 
problems with lameness, because there were no clinical notes from between the time of 
the first consultation and Miss M returning her dog to the vets over a year later. So the vet 
didnt confirm there were no symptoms during this time - just that there was no clinical 
record of any symptoms.
The vet also said that the symptoms in 2019 werent entirely consistent with cruciate 
ligament injury, but because no further investigations were carried out at the time they 
couldnt say with certainty whether it was a cruciate ligament or soft tissue injury. So 
while the vet accepts that they cant be sure what caused the symptoms in 2019, I dont 
think this necessarily contradicts what they wrote in the notes at the time of the 
consultation, which was that symptoms had been ongoing since 2019.
The vets notes from July 2019 say that there was the possibility of a ligament injury, and 
investigation into the problem was offered at that time. The same leg showed similar 
symptoms just over a year later and the ligament rupture was diagnosed at that time. The 
vet who treated Miss Ms dog has, in their notes, linked the ligament rupture to the injury 
the dog was treated for in July 2019. So overall, I dont think its unreasonable for Red 
Sands to have concluded that symptoms of the injury that was diagnosed in August 2020 
were present in July 2019.
Red Sands explain that they start the 12-month time limit to make a claim when the 
condition is first noted by the pet owner or their vet. However, our approach is slightly 
different. We think its fair for an insurer to start the 12 months from when a consumer can 
first reasonably make a claim on their policy. This is usually when a vet recommends 
some sort of investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet.
The notes made during the consultation in 2019 suggest that Miss Ms dog should be 
reviewed in a couple of days to see if there was an improvement, and then go on to refer 
to X-rays. So, from the notes made at the time, it does looks like the vet recommended 
further investigation into the dogs injury in July 2019. But Miss M didnt return the dog to 
the vet until over a year later.
Taking everything into account, I think its likely that if a follow up review had been carried out in July 2019 as suggested by the vet, the dogs ligament injury would have 
been diagnosed and treated earlier than it was. So, I think its reasonable to say that 
Miss M had an opportunity to have further investigation into the potential ligament injury 
in July 2019. And I think this is when she could first reasonably have made a claim on 
her policy for this condition.
Ive concluded that the condition Miss M claimed for in September 2020 is likely to be the 
same condition Miss Ms dog was treated for on 12 July 2019. And I think Miss M could 
reasonably have made a claim in July 2019 if shed followed the vets recommendation 
for a follow up review and possible X-Rays. I think its fair for Red Sands to start the 12-
month time limit for making a claim from 12 July 2019. So I dont think Red Sands were 
unreasonable to conclude Miss M brought her claim outside the policy time limits.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, because I can see she feels strongly about her 
complaint. But for the reasons Ive explained, from everything Ive seen so far I dont 
think Red Sands have acted unfairly in declining her claim for her dogs treatment.
I asked both parties to reply to my provisional decision by 28 August 2021. 
Red Sands replied to say they had nothing to add.
Miss M replied to say she didnt agree with the provisional decision, because the vet 
said there was reasonable doubt that the injury she claimed for was linked to the 
previous injury, and she didnt think her dog would have been able to walk and run 
comfortably over the year in between the visits to the vet if hed had this injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to change my provisional decision, so Im not upholding Miss 
Ms complaint.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision (which Ive set out above), I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Red Sands to rely on the notes made by the vet during the consultations, 
which linked Miss Ms dogs condition in 2020 to the symptoms seen in 2019.
Although the vet accepts they cant be sure what caused the symptoms in 2019, Ive also 
explained that I dont think the vets subsequent statement contradicts what they wrote in the 
notes at the time of the consultation.
After taking everything into account, I still dont think Red Sands were unreasonable to 
conclude Miss Ms claim was brought outside the policy time limits. So I dont think Red 
Sands have acted unfairly in declining Miss Ms claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint, for the reasons Ive set out 
above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman