DRN-2003182
The complaint
Miss D and Mr D complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Virgin One gave 
them notice of its intention to remove their account, forcing them to move their mortgage 
elsewhere.
What happened
Miss D and Mr D had a Virgin One account  which is a special type of mortgage account 
which is also used as a current account. It allows the borrower to pay in and draw out as 
much as they want at any time, up to an agreed facility limit.
RBS wrote to them to tell them that it had decided to close their account. It wouldnt require 
immediate repayment of the mortgage balance. But, once the 60 days notice it gave 
expired, they would only be able to make payments to reduce the mortgage balance. They 
would no longer be able to withdraw funds, or use the account for other transactions or as a 
current account.
Miss D and Mr D complained. They said it wasnt fair the account was to be closed. They 
didnt understand why, and werent happy that RBS didnt give them a reason other than that 
it was exercising its rights under the terms and conditions. They said they thought it might be 
because of a disagreement Mr D had had with the manager of their local branch  in which 
case it wasnt fair they were being punished for that.
Miss D and Mr D said they particularly wanted the Virgin One account because of its flexible 
features, which they made regular use of. No other accounts like it exist anymore, so if they 
moved elsewhere, they would only be able to get a standard mortgage. And if they stayed 
with Virgin One after the 60 days, they would lose all the flexible features of the mortgage  
but would still have to pay the higher interest rate which was the price for those features. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thinking on the case. I said:
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the Virgin One account, and they allow 
RBS to close the account or remove some or all of its features with 60 days notice  
and in some circumstances with no notice at all. Theres no obligation on RBS to give 
detailed reasons for closing an account, and having looked at what happened in this 
case and all the circumstances, I think RBS acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions in choosing to give notice. Ive not seen any evidence to support Mr Ds 
suspicion that it made this decision because of a dispute with his local branch 
manager.
If this were an ordinary current account, it would simply have closed at the end of the 
60 days and that would generally be enough time for Mr and Mrs D to move their 
banking elsewhere. But this isnt an ordinary current account; it also acted as Mr and 
Mrs Ds mortgage.
Although the terms and conditions do allow RBS to require immediate repayment of 
the outstanding balance as well, I dont think it would have been fair for RBS to 
simply close the account completely, as that would have required Miss D and Mr D to 
repay their mortgage with 60 days notice  which can be a very difficult thing to do  
or be treated as in default on their mortgage.
RBS had decided  as it was entitled to do  that it no longer wanted a banking 
relationship with Miss D and Mr D, but it didnt require them to repay their mortgage 
in full. I think that was fair. However, its unfortunate that the initial letters RBS sent 
gave Miss D and Mr D the impression that it would simply close their account (with 
the implication they would have to repay their borrowing). It was only when they 
complained that it made clear to them  close to the end of the 60-day period  that 
in fact it would continue to allow the account to operate as a mortgage, albeit without 
the banking or flexible features.
As Miss D and Mr D point out, the Virgin One account has a higher interest rate than 
most fixed and tracker rate mortgages  the higher rate is the trade-off for the 
additional features standard mortgages dont have.
Miss D and Mr D were able to move their mortgage to another bank around three 
months after the 60-day notice expired. But in that three-month period, they were 
paying the higher interest rate a Virgin One account charges, without any of the 
benefits associated with the account. If Miss D and Mr D hadnt been able to move 
their mortgage elsewhere, and had to keep their Virgin One account, its likely I 
wouldnt think it fair that they continue to be charged for features they couldnt use. 
And although they were in fact able to move, the same applies to the period before 
they did so. Once the additional features ceased to exist, I dont think it was fair to 
continue to charge the higher interest that came with them.
However, I dont think it would be fair simply to require RBS to refund the interest 
Miss D and Mr D paid after the 60 days expired. If theyd moved their mortgage 
elsewhere sooner, it wouldnt have been to an interest free mortgage. And if theyd 
had a standard RBS mortgage, theyd have paid interest on that too.
So I think its reasonable that Miss D and Mr D pay some interest on their borrowing 
over that period. This wasnt a standard mortgage, and couldnt easily have been 
converted to one of RBSs standard mortgage accounts. And RBS has a range of 
mortgage interest rates for different customers  depending on whether they choose 
a shorter or longer rate, a fixed or tracker rate, their loan to value, and so on. So its 
not straightforward to identify the difference in rate between a normal RBS 
mortgage Miss D and Mr D might have had and the Virgin One account.
Given that uncertainty, I think the fairest thing to do is simply use as a proxy the rate 
Miss D and Mr D were able to obtain on their new mortgage from their new lender  a 
fixed rate of 1.47%. RBS should refund the difference between the interest Miss D 
and Mr D actually paid on their borrowing from the 61st day to the date the mortgage 
was redeemed, and the interest chargeable on the same borrowing at 1.47%.
Finally, I note that RBS paid Miss D and Mr D £100 compensation for poor customer 
service because the department they were advised to contact on the notice letter 
couldnt help them understand why it had been issued. I think thats fair. But, as Ive 
explained, RBS was entitled to close the account but continued to allow it to operate 
as a mortgage. Other than in the interest rate, for which Ive said they should be 
compensated, I dont think Miss D and Mr D were treated unfairly. Miss D and Mr D 
could have continued to operate the account as a mortgage only, but chose to move 
to another lender. That was the right thing to do as it mitigated their financial loss in 
paying the higher interest on the Virgin One account. I dont think RBS needs to refund the costs they incurred in doing so, or compensate them for the inconvenience 
that caused, given that its original decision to give notice was a fair one.
Miss D and Mr D said they would reluctantly accept my provisional decision. But they didnt 
think it fair that the bank could just close their account without saying why. RBS asked for 
confirmation of when Mr and Mrs D first applied for their new mortgage. When we provided 
that, it didnt respond further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
since I issued my provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I said. But I see 
no reason to change my mind.
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I think RBS should refund the interest 
Miss D and Mr D paid over and above what they would have paid for a standard mortgage, 
once the special features were removed. And I think RBS offer of £100 compensation is a 
fair one. However, I dont think it acted unfairly in withdrawing banking facilities from the 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Virgin One to refund the difference in 
interest between 1.47% and the rate actually charged, running from the 61st day after closure 
notice was given to the date the mortgage was redeemed. It should add simple annual 
interest of 8% running from the date the mortgage was redeemed to the date of settlement. It 
should also pay the £100 compensation offered, if it hasnt done so already.
If RBS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss D and Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give them 
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if theyre entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman