DRN-2137671
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that he was approved for a loan by Shawbrook Bank Limited which he 
believes was unaffordable for him.
  
What happened
In July 2018, Mr F applied online to Shawbrook Bank for a loan of £5,000 over a 60-month 
term.  
 
In the loan application, Mr F stated that his annual income was just over £60,000.  
Shawbrook contacted Mr F by telephone to query this and asked for the most recent three 
months' payslips as proof of income. During this call, Shawbrook also received confirmation 
from Mr F that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation and that the monthly 
payment was affordable. Mr F also stated that he was happy with the terms and conditions 
of the loan.  
 
Mr F then sent three months' payslips to Shawbrook as requested. These payslips showed a 
lower level of annual income than Mr F had declared on the loan application. However, this 
lower level of income still met Shawbrook's affordability criteria for the loan. The loan was 
subsequently approved, and the agreed amount received by Mr F.
Mr F raised a complaint with Shawbrook in July 2019 saying that he was unhappy that he'd 
been offered the loan. Mr F had previously complained about another loan that he had with 
Shawbrook which he believed was unaffordable for him. Mr F believes Shawbrook should 
have taken this into account and declined his application for this later loan.
 
Shawbrook didn't uphold the complaint. They said that they had performed suitable checks 
and that the loan was affordable for Mr F. Shawbrook noted that the earlier complaint for 
unaffordable lending had not been upheld by either themselves or this service. They further 
noted that they had improved the level of checks for this later loan by asking for proof of 
income. Mr F wasn't happy with this response and referred the matter to our service.
 
One of our investigators looked at this case and didn't uphold the complaint either. She felt 
that Shawbrook had conducted appropriate checks, including the telephone call where Mr F 
confirmed that the monthly repayment was affordable for him. Mr F remained unhappy and 
asked that the matter be passed to an Ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a lender to decide who to lend to and, if its prepared to lend, how much and on what 
terms. What Id expect to see here is that Shawbrook performed appropriate and 
proportionate checks into the affordability of this loan. 
Ive reviewed the affordability checks that were undertaken by Shawbrook. These included 
looking at Mr F's credit file, verifying Mr F's income, and obtaining verbal confirmation that 
the loan was affordable for Mr F. I am satisfied that these checks were appropriate and 
proportionate for the loan being applied for, which is what Id expect of a business before it 
makes the decision to lend. 
 
Mr F believes that his complaint about his earlier loan being unaffordable should have been 
considered by Shawbrook, and that this should have demonstrated that the later loan was 
unaffordable to him. Thats despite the affordability checks undertaken by Shawbrook as 
described above. I see the point Mr F is making here, but at the time that the loan in 
question here was applied for, the payments on the earlier loan were up to date. So, despite 
this ongoing complaint, there was nothing in the repayment history of the earlier loan that 
would obviously indicate unaffordability, beyond what Mr F was saying in his complaint.
 
I realise that Mr F doesnt think these checks went far enough and says there were factors 
that Shawbrook should have picked up on before it lent here. But Ive also taken account of 
the fact that alongside the earlier loan being up to date, there were other checks undertaken 
by Shawbrook. It didnt just take what Mr F provided it on face value - it checked his credit 
file, asked for confirmation of income, and when it spoke to Mr F on the telephone obtained 
confirmed from him that the monthly loan repayments were affordable. That means I cannot 
fairly say that Shawbrook did anything wrong in this instance.
Had it been the case that Mr F declared on the telephone call that the loan repayments 
would be unaffordable for him, or if Mr F had said anything else that might be a cause for 
concern on that call, then I may have viewed the matter differently. But in confirming that the 
loan repayments would be affordable for him, I consider that Mr F was superseding any 
earlier statements about unaffordability and providing up to date information. When taken 
into account alongside the other information that Shawbrook had obtained  then Im 
satisfied that Shawbrook has acted fairly here in lending to Mr F.
 
It follows that, I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Shawbrook to take any action at 
this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman