DRN-2944447
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the adverse information that NewDay Limited has recorded on her 
credit file relating to the payments that she made under a credit agreement for a television.
What happened
Mrs A used a credit agreement with a third party to pay for a television. The third party 
stopped trading before the credit had been repaid and the credit agreement was transferred 
to NewDay. The amount outstanding in April 2016 was £117.98 and Mrs A made a payment 
of £118 from her bank account to clear that balance  but the payment was returned the 
following day.
There were communications between Mrs A and NewDay from May to November 2016 
about the account and NewDay sent a default notice to Mrs A in June 2016, it terminated her 
account and transferred her debt to a debt recovery unit in July 2016, and a default was 
recorded on her credit file in November 2016. Mrs A says that she didnt receive those 
communications and she made another payment to NewDay in October 2016 but it was also 
returned the following day. She complained to NewDay in December 2016 and it said that 
she still owed it £117.98 but, if she made the payment, it would remove charges from her 
account as a goodwill gesture. 
Mrs A says that she noticed in May 2020 that NewDay had recorded a default on her credit 
file so she complained to it. It said that the account balance of £221.39 had been charged off 
in November 2016, it was required to report accurate and true information to the credit 
reference agencies and it was unable to make any adjustments to her credit file. Mrs A 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that 
NewDay had told Mrs A about the negative impact the default would have on her ability to 
obtain credit in the future and she was given time to make the payment before the default 
was registered  but she didnt make a successful payment so the default was registered. 
She said that NewDay had acted in line with its terms and conditions and obligation to report 
accurate data to the credit reference agencies. She believed that NewDay had acted fairly 
and reasonably so she said that she wouldnt be asking it to take any further action.
Mrs A has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that she didnt receive any of the letters from NewDay, otherwise she would've 
paid and she says that she has a consistent record of paying on time via direct debit. She 
says that shed tried to clear the account in April and October 2016 but the payments were 
returned to her account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
its clear that Mrs A tried to clear the outstanding balance of her credit account in 
April and October 2016  but the payments were returned to her bank account;
NewDay has provided detailed evidence about the letters that it sent to Mrs A 
between May and November 2016, including account statements, missed payment 
notices, account overdue letters, notices of sums in arrears, a default notice and a 
notice of termination of her account;
I consider it to be more likely than not that those letters were sent by NewDay to 
Mrs A and I dont consider it to be likely that she wouldnt have received any of them;
she knew in April 2016 that there was an outstanding balance of £117.98 on her 
account and she made a payment of £118 to clear that balance  but the bank 
account statement that shes provided shows that the payment was returned  so I 
consider that she wouldve known, or ought reasonably to have known, that she 
continued to have an outstanding balance on her account;
I consider that NewDay acted correctly in sending those letters to Mrs A and that, 
when it hadnt received the required payment, it acted fairly and reasonably when it 
defaulted and terminated her account;
Mrs A complained to NewDay in December 2016 so I consider that she would have 
known at that time that there was an outstanding balance on her account;
NewDay responded to her complaint and said that she still owed it £117.98 but, if she 
made the payment, it would remove charges from her account as a goodwill gesture 
 I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable response to her complaint at that 
time;
Mrs A didnt make the required payment at that time and didnt make a payment to 
clear the balance of her account until March 2021;
NewDay is required to provide true and accurate information about a customers 
payment history to the credit reference agencies;
I consider that the default that its recorded on Mrs As credit file is a true and 
accurate record of her payment history - Im not persuaded that NewDay has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to remove the default from her credit file;
I sympathise with Mrs A for the difficulties that shes described and the issues that 
the adverse information has caused her, but the default will remain on her credit file 
for six years so I consider that its likely that it will be removed in November 2022; 
and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require NewDay to remove any of 
the adverse information that its recorded on Mrs As credit file, to pay her any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman