DRN-2485992
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service provided to him by The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) in 
respect of one or more accounts he holds, or held, with it.
What happened
Mr C complains that Co-op:
doesnt allow enough time for him to be able to make proper and appropriate use of 
its interactive voice response (IVR) system
wouldnt give him a branch appointment to open an account
sent him information despite him opting out of receiving marketing material
failed to give him sufficient or adequate financial support
doesnt compensate consumers immediately a complaint is raised
failed to send him one or more documents in large font, as he requested it do
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld in part. 
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs first five complaint points finding, in all the 
circumstances, that Co-op had done nothing wrong here. However, she came to the view 
that Co-op, (despite being aware since mid-June 2020) had failed to send Mr C documents 
in large font more than once and for this it should pay him £100 over and above anything it 
had already paid him.
Co-op agreed with the investigators view, but Mr C didnt. Therefore, Mr Cs complaint has 
been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr C has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr C will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also add, for the avoidance of doubt, that Im only considering here the six complaint 
points noted in the background section of this decision and not any other complaint points 
Mr C might have. 
For ease I will address the six complaint points raised by Mr C one by one.
Co-op doesnt allow enough time for Mr C to be able to make proper and appropriate use of 
its IVR system
I can understand the frustration Mr C may have experienced in being unable to make proper 
and appropriate use of Co-ops IVR system. But given that its my understanding that Mr C 
has now been provided with a work around (so he can get connected to a member of Co-op 
staff almost immediately) and that he may now be banking in the main elsewhere, with 
another bank, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make any award in this respect.
Co-op wouldnt give Mr C a branch appointment to open an account
I accept that Mr C would have liked the option of being able to an account in branch. But in 
all the circumstances I dont think Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably in not offering this 
service but offering Mr C, instead, the ability to open an account over the phone or online. I 
also think its worth noting that Mr C was ultimately successful in being able to open one or 
more accounts on line. Therefore, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make any 
award in this respect.
Co-op sent Mr C information despite him opting out of receiving marketing material
I can understand Mr C would have been frustrated in receiving the various information that 
he did. But having considered what Co-op sent Im satisfied, with the exception of an 
account statement insert, that this was information that it was important be sent, or even a 
requirement be sent, and this information didnt constitute marketing material.
Now as I say above, I accept that Mr C did receive one piece of marketing material by way of 
a statement insert. But given this appears to be the only incident of marketing material being 
sent and Mr C may now be banking in the main elsewhere, with another bank, I dont think it 
would be appropriate for me to make any award in this respect.
Co-op failed to give Mr C sufficient or adequate financial support
I accept that Mr C wanted an overdraft, but I dont think Co-op did anything wrong in not 
granting this. This is because granting an overdraft is ultimately a commercial lending 
decision for the Co-op to make. I also think that Co-op, by providing Mr C with the details 
that it did, did as much as I would expect it to do to try and assist Mr C in respect of any 
financial difficulties he might have been experiencing. Therefore, I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to make any award in this respect.
Co-op doesnt compensate consumers immediately a complaint is raised
I understand that Mr C believed, when he first raised his complaint with Co-op, that he 
should be compensated and compensated immediately. But Im satisfied that Co-op acted 
entirely appropriately in deciding to pay nothing until it had adequately and fully investigated 
his complaint. Therefore, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to make any award in 
this respect.
Co-op failed to send Mr C one or more documents in large font
Co-op accepts that despite being advised in mid-June 2020 that Mr C required all 
documents in large font it sent one or more documents after this date in standard font. So, all 
Im required to decide here is what, if anything, Co-op should have to pay Mr C by way of 
compensation.Now I appreciate that Mr C might disagree but taking everything into account  including the 
number of documents sent in standard font by Co-op, I find  like the investigator  that £100 
represents a fair and reasonable sum for Co-op to have to pay Mr C in addition to anything it 
has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and that The Co-operative Bank Plc 
must pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman