DRN-3423391
The complaint
Miss O complains that Creation Financial Services Limited irresponsibly provided her with a 
credit card that she couldnt afford the repayments on.
What happened
Miss O applied for and received a credit card from Creation in November 2017. There was 
an initial credit limit of £3,000, which hasnt been increased. She says she had a lot of debts 
at the time so the card should never have been issued. She had problems in even making 
the minimum repayments. She complained to Creation about irresponsible lending. She 
further complained that she wasnt allowed access to her online account so she couldnt 
manage the borrowing. She has sent to us copies of her bank statements around the time of 
her application.
Creation said it carried out all relevant checks which included a credit check. It said she had 
very low credit payments and would have been easily able to afford the card repayments.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator said that Creation hadnt carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks but had it done so these were likely to have 
demonstrated that Miss O would not have been able to make her repayments
sustainably. So he upheld Miss Os complaint.
Creation disagreed and sent in a summary of the checks it had carried out. Our investigator 
still said that it should have done further checks, given the level of borrowing.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss O 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss O would have been able to do so?
Providing an initial credit card limit of £3,000 means that Miss O had access to a high 
amount of credit immediately. Given that I think that Creation should have carried out a 
thorough assessment of Miss Os finances, before setting up the account.
Unfortunately Creation hasnt been able to send us detailed information about the credit 
search it carried out  just an overall summary. This does mean that Im not able to verify 
what information on individual accounts was available to Creation, at the time of the 
application. From its summary, this appears to show that Miss O had declared an income of 
£1,500 a month and its credit checks showed she was already paying £60 a month in credit 
payments. On the face of it she had a monthly disposable income of £508. 
However I would have expected Creation to verify her income which it doesnt appear to 
have done. Her salary was about £1,000 a month plus work plus child tax credits of around 
£400. Its clear from her bank statements around the time of the application that she was 
paying regular loan payments of at least £200 and several payments to an online payment 
service. Her rent was around £495, rather than the £425 it assessed. Its also clear that she 
was running an overdraft which wasnt decreasing. I think its likely that the bank overdraft 
would have shown up on the credit record and that should have led Creation to verify the 
information about that account. As Miss O clearly wasnt managing her finances well, and as 
the disposable income figure assessed by Creation was clearly much less, I dont think she 
would have been able to sustain the payments on £3,000 credit.
So I dont think Creation made a fair lending decision. It should rework the account as Ive 
set out below.
In respect of access to her online account, Creation hasnt explained to us why she cant 
have this, except to say to her the account has been suspended. I can understand that she 
might not be able to make payments from the account but I see no reason why she shouldnt 
be able to access it for viewing purposes, especially if she is to carry on making payments to 
the account.
Putting things right
As I dont think Creation ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss O should 
pay back the amounts they have borrowed. Therefore, Creation should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss O along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Creation should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Miss Os credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Creation should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss O for the remaining amount. Once Miss O has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
Creation should further allow Miss O access to her online account.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Creation Financial Services Limited to provide the remedy 
set out under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman