DRN-3711926
The complaint
Ms R and Mr Y complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has treated then unfairly in 
relation to their request for a premium refund of their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R and Mr Y had a private medical insurance Health Select policy with AXA from 2014 to 
2021. The policy ran annually from 1 September every year.
In March/April 2020 private medical facilities were requisitioned to the NHS to provide 
support due to the demands of the Covid-19 pandemic. In January 2021 Ms R and Mr Y 
contacted AXA saying as there was much less risk they would be able to make a claim AXA 
should refund their policy premiums in line with the reduced risk. In March 2020, at the start 
of the pandemic, Ms R and Mr Ys son-in-law had made the same request to AXA for his 
private medical policy and had received a refund of two months premiums immediately.
In January 2021 AXA responded to Ms R and Mr Ys request. It said:
While non-urgent private treatments had been delayed some private services were 
still available and it had added new policy services and benefits as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic situation (which it detailed).
Although in the short term it expected to pay lower claims it expected to pay higher 
claims once private hospitals were less busy helping the NHS as delayed private 
treatment could then happen.
It made a customer promise that if the value of its health insurance claims in 2020 
and 2021 combined fell compared with 2019 because of the pandemic situation it 
would refund the difference to customers. At that time it expected to pay any refund 
by March 2022. The refund calculation would be verified by an appropriate 
independent auditor.
AXA didnt offer Ms R and Mr Y an immediate refund of premium.
Ms R and Mr Y complained to us represented by their son-in-law. In summary their main 
points were:
AXA had treated them unfairly as it had treated their request differently to their son 
in-laws request for a premium refund.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) published guidance Product value and 
coronavirus: guidance for insurance firms said insurers must give premium refunds. 
Ms R and Mr Ys representative said his motor insurer had refunded his motor 
insurance premiums immediately and AXA should do so for this policy.
AXA should assess whether the risk of claims had fallen in a given policy year and 
issue a refund to those customers affected. Having a future rebate meant customers 
had to keep their policy with AXA, rather than being able to move to another insurer.
During our investigation of the complaint Ms R and Mr Y told us they hadnt renewed 
the policy with AXA in September 2021 and now had medical insurance with another 
insurer. They thought that meant they wouldnt benefit from any rebate AXA 
provided.
They hadnt asked for or used the new policy benefits AXA provided.
They wanted a refund of premiums based on the reduced risk within the relevant 
policy year.
Our investigator said AXA had acted reasonably to Ms R and Mr Y. And under the terms and 
conditions of AXAs rebate scheme even though they hadnt renewed the policy in 2021 if 
any rebate was due they would still get a rebate based on the proportion of premium theyd 
paid.
Ms R and Mr Y disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. They added:
AXA should treat customers consistently particularly when it had more than one 
customer in a family as family members were likely to share knowledge with each 
other.
They hadnt heard from AXA about a rebate as at January 2022 which they thought 
was due to the continuing impact of the pandemic but they also thought the delay 
was unfair.
They didnt think there was a distinction between medical and car insurers for 
premium refund purposes.
AXAs proposed rebate approach was anti-competitive and they detailed why they
thought so.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision so the parties could respond for two reasons. First, our 
investigator considered this complaint and a complaint made by Ms R and Mr Ys daughter 
about her private health insurance with AXA as one complaint. As Ms R and Mr Y have a 
different policy to their daughter I made a separate decision about her complaint. Separating 
the complaints didnt affect the outcome of this decision. Second, there had been 
developments in respect of AXAs customer promise.
I explained why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
This decision is about Ms R and Mr Ys complaint that AXA treated them unfairly. When 
making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms R 
and Mr Ys complaint Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of their contract with 
AXA as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance 
including the FCA guidance they referred to.
Im intending to find that AXA treated Ms R and Mr Y fairly. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Ms R and Mr Ys comments about why they think its relevant that their 
representatives motor insurer gave him an immediate refund of some premiums due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Im satisfied that a motor insurers actions isnt relevant to this complaint 
which is about a completely different insurance product.
The terms and conditions of Ms R and Mr Ys policy say their plan is for one year and that 
premiums must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. The relevant periods for 
this complaint when AXA provided private medical insurance cover to Ms R and Mr Y is from 
1 September 2019 to 31 August 2020 and 1 September 2020 to 31 August 2021. I dont have any evidence that Ms R and Mr Y made any claims during either period, but even if 
they didnt AXA is entitled to retain the premiums it charged to cover the risk of them making 
a claim during those policy periods.
Ms R and Mr Y say the risk of them making a claim on the policy was less due there being 
restricted access to private treatment due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But the policy doesnt 
guarantee access to private healthcare and AXA doesnt own or operate private hospitals. 
AXA will pay for eligible private medical treatment under Ms R and Mr Ys policy in certain 
circumstances, but AXA isnt responsible for the lack of availability of private hospitals to 
treat private patients during the pandemic. The terms and conditions of the policy dont 
entitle Ms R and Mr Y to a premium refund if they were unable to access private treatment. 
And I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to refund premiums if a policyholder cant access 
or has delays in accessing private treatment for reasons outside of the insurers control, as 
happened here.
Also, Ms R and Mr Y still had the benefit of cover under the policy. AXA could have 
preauthorised any necessary medical treatment for Ms R and/or Mr Y to be carried out at a 
later date (so long as a valid policy remained in force). And AXA provided enhanced benefits 
to members during the pandemic. Ms R and Mr Y said they had no need of those additional 
benefits, but for the reasons Ive given above that doesnt mean AXA had to refund any 
premiums.
As our investigator explained, the FCAs Product value and coronavirus: guidance for 
insurance firms doesnt say insurers had to provide a premium refund/rebate to their 
policyholders.
Its not clear why in April 2020 AXA chose to offer to refund two months premiums to Ms R 
and Mr Ys representative in relation to his own policy. AXA didnt need to do so and it told 
him it wasnt upholding his complaint. Its possible the timing of his complaint, at the start of 
the pandemic and before the FCA guidance was published, influenced AXAs response to 
give the refund as a goodwill gesture to him. But its decision to do so at that time doesnt 
mean AXAs treated Ms R and Mr Y unfairly for the reasons Ive explained above. I dont 
think AXA needed to make a goodwill refund to them just because their family member had 
received a goodwill gesture at a different time.
Im satisfied that AXA was entitled to receive and keep Ms R and Mr Ys premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the policy and on a fair and reasonable basis.
AXAs final response letter to Ms R and Mr Y detailed how its customer promise rebate 
would work and theres further information on AXAs website. The rebate isnt a premium 
refund, its to be paid if AXA made an exceptional profit during January 2020 to 
December 2021 due to the reduced claims its members made during the pandemic. AXAs 
website details how the refund/rebate will be calculated and independently reviewed and 
verified by a named independent auditor.
AXA initially told Ms R and Mr Y it expected to make any rebate that was due by March 2022 
so it wasnt unreasonable that Ms R and Mr Y hadnt heard from it in January 2022. AXAs 
website says why it waited until the end of 2021 to be able to assess the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic on claims and that it would begin issuing refunds/rebates from 
May 2022. I think that was a reasonable timescale in the circumstances.
Ms R and Mr Y say AXA should have calculated any refund on a policy year basis. Its a 
business decision for AXA as to how it wants to approach any refund/rebate it chooses to 
give. But I think AXAs approach was a reasonable approach to take once it was able to 
establish the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on claims.Ms R and Mr Y say AXAs stance is anti-competitive. Its not our statutory role to decide 
whether an insurers action is or isnt anti-competitive. In my experience insurers that are 
giving rebates on private medical insurance are using a similar approach to AXA. 
AXAs website says individual health insurance members whose plan was in force between 
1 January 2020 and 7 April 2020 are eligible for a refund/rebate. So Ms R and Mr Y are 
eligible. I dont accept Ms R and Mr Ys suggestion that AXAs approach to the refund/rebate 
stopped them from changing to another insurer for their health insurance, and they did 
change to another insurer.
AXA says it made the refund/rebate payments from May 2022. Ms R and Mr Y havent told 
us whether theyve now received any refund/rebate. If they are unhappy about the amount 
they received, taking into account AXAs information on how it calculated the refund/rebate, 
they should complain to AXA. If they cant agree ultimately they can make a separate 
complaint to us on that matter.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA said it had no further comments. Ms R and Mr Y didnt respond to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA had no further comments and Ms R and Mr Y didnt respond to my provisional 
decision Ive no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional 
findings and these findings Im satisfied that AXA treated Ms R and Mr Y fairly in relation to 
their request for a premium refund of their private medical insurance policy and I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms R and Mr Y to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman