DRN-2692817
The complaint
Mrs R brings a complaint on behalf of the estate of her late husband, Mr R. She says The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has unreasonably refused her claim for 
death benefit under their life assurance policy. Instead, it has voided the policy on the 
grounds of misrepresentation. Mrs R believes no misrepresentation has occurred and Royal 
London should pay out her claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for their policy in September 2019 by submitting an online application 
through a third party comparison site. The policy they sought offered them £350,000 of level 
cover for a 36 year term. The application was accepted and started the same day. 
On 13 September 2019, Mr and Mrs R returned a copy of their policy application to Royal 
London, having signed it to confirm it was correct and accurate.  
In November 2019, Mr R was diagnosed with an advanced type of cancer. Despite various 
types of treatment, he sadly passed away in June 2020. Mrs R made a claim to Royal 
London. 
Royal London sought further medical evidence in order to assess the claim. Having done so, 
it noted that three of the questions Mr R had been asked on the policy application had been 
answered incorrectly. It believed Mr R ought to have disclosed the August 2019 appointment 
he had concerning a mass on his right temple and a lipoma on his leg. It also noted that 
when Mr R was later attending hospital in November 2019, it was noted he had a three 
month history of unexplained weight loss of 7kg. 
It said that it believed there had been a careless misrepresentation. Had it known Mr Rs 
actual health circumstances, Royal London said it would not have been able to insure him at 
the time; instead it would have needed to postpone the application. However, after the 
postponement period Mr R had gone on to be diagnosed with his type of cancer. Since cover 
could not have been offered at that time, Royal London said it was entitled to void the policy 
and refund the premiums to Mrs R.    
Mrs R told Royal London she wished to appeal the decision. She explained that she and Mr 
R had completed their application in good faith and to the best of their knowledge and belief. 
Mr R had undergone GP visits during that period but they were reassuring and showed no 
health issues of concern aside from needing to see the dentist the following month. Further, 
Mr R had continued his work as a fitness coach at that time.  
Royal London treated Mrs Rs concerns as a complaint. It said it was not made aware of Mr 
Rs ongoing issues and tests. In instances where misrepresentation of facts occur and those 
facts are material to the underwriting of a policy, an insurer is required to reassess the case 
using the information which should have been made available to it at the time. 
In this case, its underwriters confirmed that upon learning the correct medical circumstances 
Royal London would have initially postponed cover. And following the results of Mr Rs 
investigations which ended with his cancer diagnosis, it would not have offered any terms for 
any cover because of the advanced nature of his condition. 
So, Mrs R brought the complaint to this service. She said neither she nor Mr R had 
misrepresented their medical circumstances during the policy application. She was of the 
view that minor medical conditions such as toothache do not need to be disclosed to Royal 
London. Further, the policy application available on Royal Londons website clearly set out 
that certain types of skin conditions (such as boils, bunions and lipomas) did not need to be 
disclosed. So Mr R hadnt misrepresented there either. 
She explained that Royal Londons actions had exacerbated the financial hardship she has 
suffered since Mr R passed away, leaving her in mortgage arrears with a very young child. 
Finally, Mrs R shared an extract from a blog where one of Royal Londons underwriters had 
written an article aimed at financial advisers. The article was setting out guidance to ensure 
that advisers and their clients do not suffer with rejected claims. The underwriter had said 
that when it comes to life cover claims that are rejected due to misrepresentation, the 
information not disclosed needs to be pretty severe. Were not talking a slight discrepancy in 
height or weight, or a typically minor condition like asthma or irritable bowel syndrome. The 
information usually needs to be so significant that, had it been disclosed, cover would not 
have been offered. 
Mrs R explained that as Mr R did not have any severe issues at the time, the approach 
ought to apply to his circumstances. Therefore the claim should not have been declined.   
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. He felt that it was fair and 
reasonable for Royal London to conclude Mr R had misrepresented when completing the 
application. In his view Mr R ought to have answered differently. He said if Royal London 
had been told about Mr Rs GP visits, recommended blood tests and other unexplained 
symptoms such as the lipoma, it would have postponed offering cover for six months after 
which it couldnt have insured him at all.  
Mrs R said she disagreed. She made two sets of further, detailed submissions. I have read 
them in their entirety but I will summarise them here. Mrs R said:
every resource she had checked described lipomas as harmless;
a reasonable person would therefore conclude that a health matter defined as 
harmless would not need to be disclosed on an insurance application form;
on its website now, Royal London sets out that minor conditions not requiring 
disclosure are boils, bunions, corns, verrucas, skin tags, ganglions, lipoma or fatty 
tissue;
Royal London now says the website guidance was not available in 2019 when Mr 
and Mrs R sought their cover, however, it has provided no proof of this;
when Mr R attended a GP appointment on 4 September 2019 the GP noted a small 
mobile mass was found on his thigh. He was told it was a lipoma, it was harmless 
and not to be concerned about it;
he therefore did not answer incorrectly by failing to disclose the lipoma;
following this through, hypothetically Royal London would reject a life assurance 
claim for a man in his thirties who takes out a policy just a few months earlier and 
dies in a car crash but his medical notes disclose he had a lipoma at the time of his 
application;
regardless of whether Royal London had listed those items that do not require 
disclosure, or when it posted it on its website is irrelevant. A lipoma is a harmless 
condition that usually disappears on its own and has no impact on mortality rates;in relation to the painless facial swelling, this was considered to be caused by dental 
problems;
by 13 September the swelling had subsided again and no further appointments were 
considered necessary;
his GP regarded the matter as a minor dental issue which might require the removal 
of the diseased tooth at some point in the future;
as it was, the tooth was eventually removed at a routine dental appointment on 4 
October 2019;
throughout this period until mid-October Mr R was in good general health and still 
working normally as a type of sports coach, an outdoor job requiring a good deal of 
physical effort - he displayed no other symptoms of ill health;
she believes the article written by Royal Londons Chief Underwriter has been 
conveniently ignored;
she does not believe that Royal London can be allowed to say one thing in a 
published policy article about non-disclosure criteria and then completely ignore it 
when considering her claim for the death of her husband;
that the GP in Mr Rs surgery made a mistake on receipt of Mr Rs first blood tests 
and sent them for visit to a GP in another part of the country (whilst they were on 
holiday) has been confirmed by a Serious Case Review to have been a mistake;
the GP felt Mr Rs blood results might have been indicative of a rare condition of 
temporal arteritis, but the second GP explained this doesnt occur in patients under 
50;
in her view the crucial GP appointment Mr R had (that of 13 September 2019) has 
been ignored yet this clearly shows Mr R was reassured that nothing was wrong;
at the conclusion of Mr Rs GP appointment on 13 September 2019, he considered 
that he had fully recovered from his toothache with no ongoing symptoms;
the prompt for Mr and Mrs R taking out life assurance was unrelated to Mr Rs health 
 they had their first child a few months before and had been advised to organise life 
assurance for their mortgage;
the GP has confirmed that Mr Rs type of melanoma was a rare presentation and 
there were no markers to indicate that he was suffering from anything other than a 
dental issue of a diseased molar in August or September 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, Id like to send my condolences to Mrs R. I realise she has been 
through an incredibly difficult time. 
Having reviewed all of the information carefully, I am of the view that Royal London has 
acted fairly in the circumstances. That means I wont be asking it to pay Mrs Rs claim. I 
know this wont be the answer Mrs R had hoped for, but Ill set out my reasons for reaching 
that conclusion below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what Royal London has done. When it received the medical information to 
process Mrs Rs claim, it noted that some of the information on Mr Rs medical reports such 
as a history of weight loss went back several months before diagnosis  which was proximate to the policy application.  
Mr Rs GP has explained that it is only with the benefit of hindsight that Mr Rs rare type of 
cancer has indeed been linked back to the mass on his temple. The GP submits that the 
earliest that possible cancer could have been suspected was 7 November 2019, after the 
cover was in place. I accept that. I agree with Mrs R where she has explained that the 
prospect of such a diagnosis was completely unknown to Mr R at the time they sought life 
assurance online. I also note Royal London has confirmed to Mrs R that this point is not in 
question. 
That notwithstanding, the circumstances of the claim did give rise to the need to review the 
policy application questions. Thats not because Mr R went on to suffer with cancer, but 
because it became apparent that some questions may not have been answered consistently 
with Mr Rs health at the time of completing the form. 
I realise Mrs R makes the hypothetical point that the family of a person who passed away in 
an unrelated car accident would also be subject to refusal of a claim because of 
misrepresentation, for example if a lipoma ought to have been disclosed. It is correct to say 
that a possible cause of death may be unrelated to any information withheld on a policy 
application, if that happens. The two events  an application and a claim- are distinct. An 
insurer should not use hindsight to determine what it thinks it should have been told on an 
application. Instead, it must assess what an applicant was asked against the medical 
evidence at that time.  
In reviewing what was set out on the application, Royal London acted in accordance with 
relevant law on consumer disclosures. The law says expressly that an insurer has a remedy 
against a consumer if a misrepresentation was made by the consumer before a consumer 
insurance contract was entered into. For that reason, Royal London was reasonable in trying 
to ascertain what should have happened in September 2019. 
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr B was asked and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation or not. When he completed the application, he was asked a number of 
questions. Royal London says the following three questions were answered wrongly:  
In the last 5 years have you had any of these?
Please select all that apply...
Raised blood pressure, cholesterol or chest pain
Diabetes or raised blood sugar
Depression, anxiety, stress, eating disorder or any other mental health issue
Anaemia, blood clot or anything else affecting your blood
A growth, lump or cyst
No
Have any of these applied to you in the last 3 years? You don't need to include 
things you've already told us about
Please select all that apply...
I've taken or been prescribed treatment for 4 weeks or more
I've been asked to attend a follow-up or regular reviews with a GP, hospital or 
clinic
I've been advised to see a specialist or to have any tests, scans, 
investigations or counselling
NoYou don't need to tell us about: Antibiotics for one-off chest infections, Infertility 
treatments
Have you had any of these in the last 3 months, even if you haven't seen a doctor? 
You don't need to include things you've already told us about
Please select all that apply...
Any lump, growth or hardening affecting either testicle
Bleeding from the bowel or a change in bowel habit
A cough lasting more than 3 weeks
A fit or seizure
A mole or skin blemish which has changed in appearance
No
Mr R selected no as his answer to all of the questions. 
Like Mrs R, I cannot see any clear evidence that Mr R misrepresented on the third question. 
None of the bullet points with listed symptoms were noted in any of his recent medical 
records prior to 3 September 2019. I therefore am not able to identify any qualifying 
misrepresentation made by Mr R in relation to that question. 
I also accept that, in relation to the first question, the discovery of the suspected lipoma on 
Mr Rs thigh was noted on 4 September 2019  one day after the policy went on risk. 
However, Mr and Mrs R were sent a copy of their answers to check. That letter went on to 
tell Mr and Mrs R it is vitally important you both check that the information we have is 
complete and accurate. The letter went on to explain how:
If any of the information in the application is incorrect or incomplete, and you don't 
tell us and give us the correct and complete information; or if there has been a 
change to any of the answers given to the questions in the application form or any 
other information provided between the date the answers or information were 
provided and the date we assume risk on your plan and you don't tell us, it could 
mean we won't pay a claim.
By this time, Mr R had been seen both by his GP on 4 September, the second GP whilst on 
holiday on 9 September and back at his own GP for follow up on 13 September.  
I can see that Mr R was reassured by the second GP that the swelling on his thigh was 
characteristic of a lipoma. Whilst I agree with Mrs R that lipomas are harmless, they are in 
my view, a lump. By the time they signed their declaration on 13 September 2019, the 
second GP had discovered the lipoma. I think Mr R should have told Royal London about it. 
I realise Mrs R has explained how Royal Londons website now says it does not need to 
know about lipomas, amongst other minor skin conditions such as boils and skin tags. I 
recognise thats because this discovery would not have had any bearing on the offering of 
life assurance to Mr R and also because Royal London has since reissued its guidance.
But, insurers can expect customers to answer clear questions carefully, accurately and to 
the best of their knowledge and belief. In those circumstances, I believe that the discovery of 
a lipoma four days before revisiting a policy application asking about a growth, lump or cyst 
ought reasonably to prompt an applicant to disclose it as a harmless lump.  
Even if I was to disregard that and accept Mrs Rs view about the lipoma, I consider Mr R 
should have answered the second question differently. That question requires a positive 
answer where the applicant has been asked to attend a follow-up or regular reviews with a GP, hospital or clinic. 
At the time of the application on 3 September 2019, Mr R had seen his GP less than two 
weeks earlier regarding the swelling on his temple  a recurrence of the earlier issue he had 
in February of the same year which had subsided without treatment. Full blood tests were 
required and these were undertaken on 30 August 2019. Mr R then went back to the GP on 
4 September 2019 to discuss those results as they had come back with some abnormalities.
In my view, having blood tests taken a few days before the application infers or should 
reasonably infer that the GP was going to follow matters up with Mr R  by informing him of 
the results. Further, in the appointment of 4 September more blood tests were scheduled for 
the following day. The GP then felt it necessary (although I realise this was a misdiagnosis) 
to ask Mr R to both call 111 and to see a GP whilst on holiday to rule out temporal arteritis, 
because of the raised inflammatory markers in Mr Rs blood tests.  
It is not known if Mr and Mrs R completed their declaration on 13 September 2019 before or 
after Mr R saw the GP the same day. But either way, I consider Mr R ought to have 
amended his answer to that second question above, if he hadnt already answered it 
correctly in the first place. 
Though Mrs R and the GP note Mr R to be well in himself at that time, the second set of 
bloods (whilst improved on the first set) still contained abnormal reference range results, 
specifically for two inflammation markers, C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation 
rate. It was for this reason that while the GP agreed a watch and wait approach for the 
temple swelling it was recorded that a recheck of full blood count was required including the 
two markers. 
In my view, Mr R knew he was under review and awaiting a follow up at the time of both the 
application and signing the declaration form. That question was clear and relevant to Royal 
London and so he ought to have answered yes to it, and given further details.  
I say that noting that Mr and Mrs R signed a declaration attached to a copy of their answers 
stating that their application was accurate and that they must tell Royal London if any of the 
answers to any of the questions within the application or any other information provided had 
changed.  
Though I recognise Mrs R has a credible and fair explanation for what has gone on, it is 
nonetheless clear that a misrepresentation took place as relevant information was withheld 
from Royal London about Mr Rs ongoing blood tests. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless. The types of categorisations allow for 
different types of outcomes. 
Careless misrepresentation includes anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mr Rs actions sit in the lowest end of that range of responses. I 
sympathise with Mrs R as I accept that Mr Rs temple swelling caused no pain at that time 
and had seemingly gone away and by October 2019 Mr R had his molar removed 
suspecting this was the cause.  
But I have to be reasonable to both parties in the complaint, and Royal London was not at 
fault for not being told about the abnormal blood results. It needed to know about them, so it 
could seek ascertain the risk and cost of offering Mr R insurance cover.    
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy and return 
the premiums paid by the customer from the outset.  
Since Royal London did not know there was a third set of blood tests required, it based its 
insurance underwriting on what Mr R had said on the application. However, he had told it 
about the follow up or review of bloods, Royal Londons underwriting shows that it would 
have postponed cover until the GP had identified the cause of the raised inflammation 
markers. 
At the results on 26 September 2019, the two markers CRP and ESR remained outside of 
normal ranges. Because of this, Royal London would have applied a six month 
postponement. Sadly, if Mr R had reapplied six months later, he could not have been insured 
at all. 
The ABI Code of Practice in respect of careless misrepresentation when deciding a 
proportionate remedy (the 2019 Code) says:
9.2. The outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have been 
had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time the customer took out the policy, 
as follows
9.2.5 The underwriting decision would have been deferred or where the 
decision to defer the cover would have been made  in this case, insurers 
should, as far as possible, try to determine what the ultimate underwriting 
decision would have been (that is, at the end of the deferred period or when 
the investigation was complete) and apply the appropriate remedy, as above. 
If it is not possible to work out whether the insurer would have offered any 
cover, or if the deferral decision would have required the customer to re-apply 
at a future date, then this should be treated as a decline in 9.2.4 above.
Royal London has worked out that the ultimate underwriting decision after the postponement 
would be a decline and its underwriters have provided guidance to demonstrate as such. It 
hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2019 as it would have if it had known 
about Mr Rs correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the relevant 
law, guidance, and the policy terms for it to decline the claim and void the policy now. 
Finally, I know Mrs R feels that the blog she has supplied shows that the underwriters would 
or should overlook misrepresentation of minor conditions. I accept that and can see why Mrs 
R relies on it in relation to the lipoma. However, the second part of the quote earlier in this 
decision explains that the misrepresented information needs to be significant such that had it 
been disclosed, cover would not have been offered. That applies to Mr Rs position, as this 
was the ultimate underwriting decision following on from the series of abnormal blood tests. 
I know my answer in this complaint wont be what Mrs R has hoped for, but as Ive set out 
above, I consider Royal London has acted reasonably. I cannot ask it to do anything more. 
My final decisionDespite my sympathy for Mrs Bs circumstances, I cannot uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman