DRN-3104626
The complaint
Miss C complains Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) unfairly cancelled her car 
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy shes being asked to pay the outstanding premiums for 
the cancelled policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point for a complaint about the cancellation of an insurance policy is the 
agreement between the policyholder and the insurer  the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Ive seen a copy of the terms and conditions applicable to Miss Cs policy. On page 
37, under general exclusions, they state:
 We will not cover any claim for loss, damage or liability, and Your policy may be 
cancelled, if Your Car is being:
a) Driven by or in charge of anybody who is not named in the Certificate of Motor 
Insurance as a person entitled to drive unless:

ii. Your car was stolen or taken without Your permission and reported as such to 
the Police. You must provide Us proof of prosecution or ongoing investigation
I consider the term is set out sufficiently clearly and I dont think it is unfair or 
unreasonable. Afterall, the policyholder is expected to co-operate with the police in 
investigating or prosecuting an errant driver.
Miss C says her son, whos under the legal driving age, drove her car without her 
knowledge or permission. Unfortunately, he was involved in a road traffic accident. 
Ive listened to the calls the police made to Haven regarding the incident. The officer 
confirmed Miss C had reported the incident to the police but didnt want to press 
charges. So, no further action was taken. I appreciate this is a difficult situation for 
Miss C. But as Ive mentioned, Haven is entitled to cancel the policy in such 
situations. I dont consider Haven acted unfairly, unreasonably or contrary to the 
policy terms by cancelling Miss Cs policy.  
Miss Cs questioned why shes being asked to pay the outstanding premiums when 
the policy has been cancelled. Car insurance policies provide insurance cover for a 
policy period (generally a year) in return for a premium. Most of the times, 
policyholders are given the option of paying this premium in regular (monthly) 
instalments. But if a claim is made on the policy, and this is followed by cancellation 
of the policy, it doesnt mean the remaining instalments dont need to be paid. This is 
because the policyholder has effectively used the policy. This is common practice in 
motor insurance policies. In fact, Miss Cs policy includes a term which states Haven 
will retain the whole premium while a claim is being considered. Depending on how 
its ultimately settled, a refund may or may not be due. Given theres an outstanding 
claim on Miss Cs policy, I dont consider Havens acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
expecting Miss C to continue paying the outstanding premiums.
For these reasons, although I appreciate Miss Cs frustrations, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman