DRN-4492297
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
Mrs R had two loans from M&S Bank in December 2020 and May 2021 as outlined in the 
table below:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Dec 2020 £5,000 24m £217.82 4 Dec 2022Defaulted
23 Aug 2022
2 18 May 2021 £20,000 60m £363.33 12 May 2026Defaulted
 24 Nov 2022
Mrs R says that she was furloughed from work with a 20% pay cut when she applied for the 
first M&S Bank loan. She says shed missed payments on two credit cards as a result so 
applied for the loan due to the high interest on the cards. Mrs R says she then decided to 
carry out some home improvements and says M&S Bank approved her for the second loan, 
even though the combined repayments were a large proportion of her income. She adds that 
when she became pregnant in August 2021, she had to take time off work due to poor 
mental health and her husband took out a further loan to cover the repayments.
Mrs R says she contacted M&S Bank in May 2022 to advise that she was on reduced 
maternity pay and it agreed to reduce payments for six months. However, Mrs R says a 
default was registered on her credit file for loan 1 and then her mortgage payments almost 
doubled. She says that when she complained to M&S Bank about irresponsible lending, it did 
not uphold her complaint but put her account on hold for six months. Mrs R says she cant 
remortgage as she now has two defaults on her account so her financial situation is unlikely 
to change in six months. She adds that this has led to further mental health issues, and she 
would like the loans written off and the defaults removed.
M&S Bank says it used the information on Mrs Rs application form, alongside data from her 
credit file, before it approved the loans. It says it also reviewed her management of loan 1 
before approving loan 2. M&S Bank says it used the income figure Mrs R provided and 
found no adverse information on her credit file. It says there was no evidence to suggest the 
lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. He was satisfied that 
M&S Bank had carried out proportionate checks for loan 1 and that there was no information 
to indicate the lending was unsustainable. However, he considered MN&S Bank should have 
carried out better checks for loan 2 and he found that, had it done so, it was likely to have 
found loan 2 was unaffordable. Our investigator recommended that Mrs R should only pay 
back what she borrowed for that loan and that adverse information about it should be 
removed from her credit file.
M&S Bank responded to say, in summary, that it agreed with the outcome but queried the 
settlement.
Our investigator clarified that interest should be refunded and that adverse information about 
loan 2 should be removed from Mrs Rs credit file once the account is settled.
Mrs R responded to say, in summary, that she wanted both defaults removed as she would 
never have defaulted on loan 1 if M&S Bank hadnt approved loan 2. She says her health 
has been impacted and her circumstances are unlikely to change to enable her to afford to 
repay loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did M&S Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Rs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in 
a sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did M&S Bank make a fair lending decision?
Did M&S Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
When Mrs R applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence that shows M&S Bank checked her 
credit file and asked about the purpose of the loan, her income and expenditure. These 
checks showed:
Mrs R said the purpose of the loan was consolidation;
She declared her income to be £26,000 per year which was verified by M&S Bank;
Mrs Rs credit record had no missed payments, arrears, defaults or County Court 
Judgements;
M&S Bank calculated her monthly expenditure was around £1,000, which left her 
with about £650 of disposable income with which to pay the £217.82 loan repayment.Given that Mrs R said the loan was for consolidation purposes, I cant see there was 
anything in the available information that should have indicated to M&S Bank that the loan 
was unaffordable. Indeed, Ive seen evidence to show that Mrs R used over £3,000 of the 
loan to repay more expensive credit card and loan commitments.
So, Im satisfied that M&S Bank carried out reasonable checks and it made a fair lending 
decision for loan 1.
Loan 2
As M&S Bank has accepted the investigators view that loan 2 was lent irresponsibly, I wont 
consider this aspect of the complaint any further here. The settlement has now been clarified 
as detailed below.
Finally, I have considered what Mrs R says about the default on loan 1 being a direct result 
of loan 2 being approved. In order to find that was the case I need to be satisfied that Mrs R 
would have continued to make her contractual repayments on loan 1 had she not been 
approved for loan 2. Based on all the evidence I have seen, I cannot conclude that was likely 
to have been the case. I say that because:
Mrs R said that she first started to struggle to make payments in August 2021 due to 
taking time off work for ill-health and that her husband took out a further loan to cover 
repayments at that point;
When Mrs R called M&S Bank in April 2022, she said the repayments had become 
unaffordable due to going on maternity leave;
When M&S Bank agreed a payment arrangement with Mrs R, it calculated that she 
could afford to repay £84 per month (on both loans combined)  significantly less 
than the repayments on loan 1.
So, whilst I understand why Mrs R feels that both defaults should be removed, I find that 
there were other significant contributory factors in loan 1 becoming unaffordable  namely a 
change in circumstances and other additional credit commitments. Therefore, I find it would 
not be reasonable to say that the default on loan 1 was wholly attributable to the approval of 
loan 2.
Finally, it would not be appropriate for the loan 2 default to be removed before the account is 
settled as doing so would mean the account would become liable to default again. Given 
Mrs R says its unlikely her circumstances would change sufficiently to enable her to return 
to contractual repayments on the loan, this would lead to the default being re-applied at a 
later date. This would be detrimental to Mrs R as a default stays on a credit file for six years.
In summary, I find that M&S Bank did not make a fair lending decision for loan 2, but I 
havent seen any evidence to show it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(trading as M&S Bank) should:
Add up the total amount of money Mrs R received as a result of having been given 
loan 2. The repayments Mrs R made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Mrs R having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date 
the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)*. M&S Bank should 
also remove all adverse information regarding this loan from Mrs Rs credit 
files;
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then M&S Bank should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable repayment plan with Mrs R. Once Mrs R 
has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the loan 
should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires M&S Bank to deduct tax from this interest. M&S Bank 
should give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman