DRN-2875858
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited trading as Pearl (Phoenix) mis-sold her 
a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution plan (FSAVC). She believes the advice 
was unsuitable and feels that the adviser should have pointed out the benefits and 
availability of the in-house Additional Voluntary Scheme (AVC) option. As a result she feels 
she mayve been financially disadvantaged. 
Mrs J is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC), but Ill 
only reference her in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs J and her husband met with a Phoenix adviser to discuss their financial needs. Mrs J 
took out a FSAVC policy with Phoenix on 3 November 1998. I understand that Mrs J 
contributed to this policy until 2 July 2002. And that she transferred it out on 18 June 2019.  
A fact find was completed in November 1998. It recorded Mrs Js circumstances at the time:
She was 34 years old, married and had one dependent child.
She was in good health and employed since September 1993. She earned a gross 
yearly salary of £19,530.
She had been a member of her employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) 
since September 1993. She contributed 6% of her annual salary to this plan.
She had a mortgage with her husband with an outstanding balance of just over 
£50,000.
She had a moderate attitude to risk.
She had a chosen retirement age of 50. She wanted to retire with around £12,000 of 
yearly income.
Following the advice meeting, Phoenix provided a recommendation letter. These confirmed 
that she wasnt on target to receive the maximum allowable benefits at her intended 
retirement age. The adviser recommended Mrs J opened an Additional Pension Account 
(APA) with net contributions of £112.42 per month. The reasons they gave for the 
recommendation were that Mrs J wanted to increase her pension savings to help her to 
retire early. And that she wanted to keep this private from her employer. The 
recommendation also stated that Mrs J valued the more personalised regular review of her 
pension needs and provisions she felt Phoenix could provide.
Mrs J accepted the recommendation and an application was completed and signed for the 
APA on 3 November 1998. She also signed a document headed Declaration for the 
Additional Pension Account. This stated that Mrs J had confirmed: I have read the booklet 
called Information about Additional Voluntary Contributions and have discussed the 
differences in charges and benefits between my company AVC scheme (as described in the 
scheme booklet) and the Additional Pension Account with Pearl Area Manager. 
The APA was set up and I understand the first payment was made on 2 December 1998. 
Mrs J continued contributions until 2 July 2002.
I understand that Mrs Js husband made a separate complaint to Phoenix through the same 
CMC about his FSAVC policy. This was a different policy to Mrs Js which I understand was 
taken out on 28 January 1995 and transferred out on 05 February 2020. Phoenix said that 
they didnt have any sales paperwork on Mrs Js husbands policy so they decided to 
conduct a review of his pension based on charges. Phoenix said that although Mrs Js 
husband was also advised alongside Mrs J in 1998, he didn't take out the APA as 
recommended. Phoenix felt that as the policies were taken out at different times and had 
different evidence available they should be considered separately based on the available 
evidence for each case. So they didnt consider that they were being inconsistent in having 
reached a different conclusion about the two separate complaints. 
Through her CMC, Mrs J complained to Phoenix about the advice shed received in March 
2020. She made the following complaint points:
The adviser had failed to accurately assess the level of risk she was willing to take.
There was no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed 
with her in a fair and balanced way.
There was no evidence that the adviser compared the benefits of the FSAVC with 
additional contributions to the OPSs Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) 
scheme.
The adviser shouldve referred her to the OPS for the full details of charges in order 
to make an informed choice.
There was no evidence that the adviser made her fully aware of the comparison of 
charges with the FSAVC recommended and the in-house AVC scheme.
The adviser had failed to establish if her OPS offered added years or any other 
enhanced benefit AVC arrangement that she wouldve chosen if properly advised.
If the adviser had advised her correctly, she wouldve contributed to the most suitable 
in-house AVC arrangement.
Phoenix issued their final response to the complaint on 19 May 2020. They didnt uphold the 
complaint. They felt that the documentation from the time of sale showed that the 
recommendations had been based on Mrs Js circumstances and needs at the time. And 
that the documentation showed that their adviser had made Mrs J aware of the potential 
higher costs of the APA before she made her decision. And therefore concluded that the 
plan was suitable for her needs. 
Mrs J raised further points with Phoenix through her CMC on 03 July 2020. 
She felt it was irrational that her husband had received the same advice at the same 
time and his complaint had been upheld. 
She felt that there was no evidence that a detailed comparison with the in-house 
scheme had been carried out, in particular in respect of charges, which she said were much lower in the OPS AVC. She said that if this comparison had been done, 
she wouldnt have chosen the more expensive option.
She didnt think there was any evidence that the advisor had followed Regulation 
Update 20 (RU 20) or that charges were discussed in a clear and open manner.
She said that periodic pension reviews hadnt been provided. 
Phoenix responded to the new complaint points on 11 September 2020. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. But did offer Mrs J £50 compensation for the delayed response to the 
additional complaint points. They explained that even though Mrs Js husbands details were 
included in the November 1998 Fact Find, his policy had been taken out on a different date. 
They said theyd upheld his complaint based on the evidence they had from that time, which 
was completely different to the evidence for Mrs Js case. Phoenix repeated their position 
from the first final response letter that they considered their advisers recommendations had 
been suitable. And that the evidence suggested their adviser had fulfilled his obligations 
under the regulations at the time.
Unhappy, Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. She made the following complaint 
points:
She wanted to increase her retirement provision as much as possible. She had no 
plans to leave her job. She didnt require privacy from her employer and had no 
special need to retire early. The additional contributions recommended wouldnt have 
allowed her to meet her early retirement objectives in any case.
She didnt feel there was any real evidence the adviser followed RU 20. And if he 
had, there was no explanation about why she would still have chosen to incur the 
probable higher charges involved with the FSAVC.
There was no discussion regarding the greater tax efficiency of the in-house AVC. 
They later clarified this point to cover National Insurance payments.
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the advice 
Mrs J received had been suitable to meet her objective of increasing her retirement savings. 
She was satisfied the adviser had met his obligations under the regulations at the time. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at the regulatory position at the time of the advice.
Regulatory position at the time of the advice
The advice complained about took place in November 1998. At this time, there were different 
rules on what advisers needed to do, depending on whether they were independent financial 
advisers or tied advisers.
Mrs Js adviser was a tied adviser. The rules he operated under meant he could only offer products from one provider - he wasnt allowed to sell products from any other provider. 
An AVC was usually part of an OPS. As the provider of the AVC was often a competing 
provider in the marketplace, a tied adviser of the FSAVC provider wouldnt typically have 
investigated whether AVC options were better than the FSAVC the company he was tied to 
provided. They could only recommend the products provided by the company they were tied 
to. 
In May 1996 RU 20 was issued. This codified the procedures it expected product providers 
to follow in future sales. It said that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes 
Direct the consumer to her employer or the OPS for more information on the in-
house option
RU 20 also referred to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It said:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
So the generic differences of the AVCs and FSAVCs shouldve been explained to the 
consumer. It was known by advisers the charges under the in-house AVCs were likely to be 
cheaper.
I next looked at what both Phoenix and Mrs J said about the complaint.
Phoenixs position
Phoenix said that they didnt include Mrs Js APA policy in the FSAVC pension review as the 
OPS Mrs J was a member of didnt have matching contributions, nor was it a subsidised 
scheme. 
Phoenix said that Mrs J wasnt on target to receive the maximum allowable benefits at her 
intended retirement age of 50. They said her intention was to pay additional contributions so 
she would build up an additional pension to help her retire early, which she wanted to keep 
private from her employer. 
Phoenix said their adviser had completed a comparison  using the OPS scheme booklet - 
between the in-house AVC, the APA and a Personal Equity Plan. They said that their 
advisers 
recommendation stated that the adviser discussed charges, penalties and plan features 
associated with the FSAVC and that he supplied a Key Features document. They said their 
adviser made Mrs J aware that the charges under the APA may be higher than those under 
the AVC available within the OPS.
Phoenix also said that the OPS provided AVCs in the form of additional months or years of 
pensionable service and encouraged Mrs J to contact the employer for details of the benefits 
the added years or months could provide. They said theyd warned Mrs J that she could end 
up financially worse off if she didnt contact her employer for details of these benefits.They also said that their adviser had provided Mrs J with a booklet called Information about 
Additional Voluntary Contributions which outlined the difference in charges between the 
APA and the in-house AVC scheme.
Phoenix said that Mrs J had made the decision to take out the APA policy, even though it 
was more expensive than the in-house AVC option. They said theyd provided her with the 
appropriate information about the in-house AVC. They were satisfied that Mrs J had been 
aware of all the options available to her before shed made her decision. Therefore they 
didnt agree that theyd mis-sold the FSAVC. Phoenix also said that they had confirmed at 
the time of the sale, that Mrs J had scope to make additional contributions to supplement her 
pension benefits. Therefore they felt that the FSAVC plan was a suitable product to meet her 
need for further retirement provision. 
Mrs Js position
Mrs J said that although the adviser said that theyd drawn her attention to the fact that the 
charges on the FSAVC may be higher than under the AVC available within the OPS, this 
was immediately followed by the statement that the employer provided AVCs in the form of 
months or years of additional service. She felt this was misleading and confusing. 
She said that the adviser didnt mention any charges connected to the added years AVC 
method available in the OPS. Nor was there any real mention of the money purchase AVC 
that was available in the OPS. So she didnt agree that the adviser had discussed all the 
options available to her. And she didnt consider that shed been given enough information to 
make an informed choice. If she had been given enough information, she wouldnt have 
taken a product that was likely to be worse value for money.
She also said that the advice she was given needed to be appropriate to her needs. She 
said that FSAVCs were known to have much higher charges than the money purchase 
AVCs that were available. Therefore there was no good reason for the adviser to have sold 
her an FSAVC policy instead of the in-house AVC.
Mrs J also said that our investigator had overlooked the fact that if shed contributed to the 
in-house AVC, the contribution wouldve been deducted from her salary at source. Therefore 
she wouldnt have paid income tax or National Insurance contributions on that part of her 
salary. She said she would pay both income tax and National Insurance contributions with 
the FSAVC, although the provider could claim the tax back. She felt that this meant she was 
worse off in the FSAVC due to the National Insurance contribution element.
Ill first consider the National Insurance contribution point. National Insurance contributions 
are payable on pension contributions, even if they are taken directly from pay. It is only if 
pension contributions are made through a salary sacrifice arrangement operated by the 
employer connected to the OPS that an individual can avoid paying National Insurance 
contributions on their pension contributions. As Ive seen no evidence that Mrs J couldve 
paid AVC contributions through salary sacrifice, I dont agree that she wouldve been worse 
off in the FSAVC due to the National Insurance contribution element. 
In order to consider the other complaint points, Ive carefully reviewed the documentation 
from the time of the sale. The fact find includes the following statement addressed to Mrs J:
You are a member of your employers OPS but are not currently on target to receive the 
maximum allowable benefits, at your intended retirement age. Using the scheme booklet, I 
have completed a comparison between the AVC available within your employers scheme, 
an Additional Pension Account and PEPs in order to increase your pension provision. I recommend you offset an Additional Pension Account with a net contribution of £112.42 pm 
in order to maximise your pension provision. Any additional tax relief due should be claimed 
directly from the IR. This recommendation is based on your intention to pay into this plan to 
build up an additional pension to help you to retire early. You wish to keep this private from 
your employer, and although your employer will be made aware you have an FSAVC, the 
level of contributions will be strictly confidential. You also like the fact that Pearl can provide 
you with a more personalised regular review of your pension needs and provisions. 
We have discussed the charges, penalties and plan features associated with this contract, 
as per the Key Features document which I have supplied. I have drawn your attention to the 
fact that the charges under our Additional Pension Account may be higher than under the 
AVC available within your employers scheme. Your Company Scheme provides AVCs in the 
form of additional months or years of pensionable service. You should therefore have 
contacted your employer for details of the benefits that the added years or months could 
provide. If you have decided not to do this, you could end up financially worse off. You have 
received a booklet called Information about AVCs which outlines the differences in charges 
and benefits between Pearls FSAVC and your Companys AVC scheme. However, because 
of the benefits outlined above, I believe the Additional Pension Account is the most suitable 
means of achieving your retirement objectives.
The illustration of benefits Mrs J was provided with said To be read in conjunction with the 
leaflet Key Features of the Personal Pension Account and Additional Pension Account. 
Phoenix told this service that they no longer had copies of the Key Features or the 
Information about Additional Voluntary Contributions booklets.
Based on the wording in the fact find, and the fact that Mrs J signed the declaration 
confirming that shed been provided with, and had read the Information about Additional 
Voluntary Contributions booklet. And had discussed the differences in charges and benefits 
between the in-house AVCs and the APA. Im satisfied that Mrs J was given these 
documents. And therefore that she was aware of the likely difference in charge. And while I 
acknowledge that part of Mrs Js complaint is that Phoenix didnt compare the benefits 
between the FSAVC option and the in-house AVC options, they didnt have to. As I 
mentioned earlier, a tied adviser wouldnt typically investigate whether AVC options were 
better than the FSAVC being offered. Instead, he was just required to ensure that Mrs J was 
aware of the in-house options, and the generic differences between the two routes, and to 
direct her to the OPS for more information on the in-house options. 
From what Ive seen, the adviser met the regulatory guidance by drawing Mrs Js attention to 
the in-house alternative AVC scheme. He stated that charges under the APA may be higher 
than under the in-house AVC option. And said that she should contact her employer for 
details of the added years in-house AVC option. While I acknowledge that the wording 
couldve been clearer around the in-house money purchase AVC option and the in-house 
added years option, Im satisfied that in directing Mrs J to request further details of the added 
years option, she wouldve been in a position to fully understand the charges and benefits of 
both the in-house options. Therefore Im satisfied that Ive seen sufficient evidence that the 
regulatory requirements of a tied adviser were met. And I dont uphold this complaint. 
Other complaint point, not yet addressed in my decision
Mrs J said she wanted to increase her retirement provision as much as possible. She had no 
plans to leave her job. She didnt require privacy from her employer and had no particular 
need to retire early. The additional contributions recommended wouldnt have allowed her to 
meet her early retirement objectives in any case.
The fact find stated that Mrs J wanted privacy from her employer. The fact find showed that Mrs J and her husband could jointly afford to set aside £200 each month. Mrs J paid 
contributions into the APA until July 2002, which Phoenix considered showed that the plan 
was affordable. Mrs J said that the amount she was contributing wasnt realistically going to 
meet her stated aim of retiring at age 50, but from what Ive seen, it was what she could 
afford at the time, and it helped towards meeting that goal. I cant know exactly what was 
said between Mrs J and the adviser. But Im satisfied that the fact find is a fair record of what 
was discussed. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive found no evidence that Phoenix failed to give Mrs J 
suitable advice. I consider that the adviser met his obligations under the regulations at the 
time. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman