DRN-4193397
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has only refunded 50% of her losses, after she says 
she was the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Mrs K obtained a £20,000 loan with Lloyds. She transferred £18,000 of that loan to someone 
who she says she thought was helping her to set up her own business. Mrs K says, at the 
time, she was vulnerable due to her personal circumstances. 
Mrs K has used a Claims Management Company (CMC) to bring her complaint to our 
service. 
The circumstances arent entirely clear, but the CMC has said Mrs K was in contact with an 
individual (H) who was helping her to set up her business. H was helping her to secure 
premises, an accountancy company, and a website to get her business up and running. H 
had been referred by a mutual friend and Mrs K saw examples of Hs work, on his laptop, of 
other similar businesses he had helped to set up. They communicated in person and via a 
social media app, where messages arent stored or saved. 
Mrs K made an initial payment to H for £10,000. Mrs K then changed her mind and asked for 
the money back, but H refused, threatened and blackmailed her, so she transferred a 
second payment of £8,000.
There is a different version of events in Lloyds calls and call notes. In those Mrs K says she 
was on a night out when she met H who offered to help her set up her business. During one 
of the calls with Lloyds she was asked about the loan that funded the payments. Mrs K 
initially said she took the loan out before she met H and he had nothing to do with her taking 
out the loan. Later in the same call Mrs K is asked about the events again and she says she 
was told to take out the loan by H as she would need the funds to get her business up and 
running.
She sent H £10,000 to start the business. Eight days later H asked for a further £8,000 for 
further expenses. Mrs K transferred the second amount but did not ask what H had done 
with the previous £10,000 payment, only that it had been invested in her business. Mrs K 
was meant to meet with H, but he kept providing excuses. She asked for her money back 
and he initially agreed to return her money, although she ultimately didnt receive this back 
and therefore thought it had been a scam. 
Mrs K was asked if H had his own business and he said he had an investment business, but 
she didnt look into or verify this.
When logging the claim with the bank Mrs K mentioned she had given the Police additional 
information which she hadnt shared with the bank, out of embarrassment. She later added 
H was now blackmailing her if she didnt retract the claim. 
The payment reference on both payments was borrowed and Mrs K says she was told to 
put this, so the bank didnt ask too many questions. The loan application reason was home 
improvements.
Mrs K has reported the matter to the police and provided a crime reference number.
Lloyds looked into Mrs Ks claim and said Mrs K ought to have independently checked the 
information about the business/individual who was helping her, including reviews about 
them. And she ought to have reported the matter to the police before sending the second 
payment. Lloyds contacted the receiving bank, but no funds remained.
It agreed the payments were out of character and it ought to have intervened. It was willing 
to refund 50% of Mrs Ks losses. But it found too many inconsistencies and changes to 
Mrs Ks story to get a full understanding of the events. But ultimately, it concluded she had 
made the payments without carrying out any checks on the individual.
Mrs K said this has all taken its toll on her mental and physical health. And she is struggling 
to repay the loan.
Our investigator looked into things, and said she thought the offer from Lloyds was fair. She 
thought it was fair that Lloyds was relying on the exception not to offer a full refund because 
Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis of belief when making the payments. She said:
- Mrs K had sent funds without any proof of the previous projects completed, without a 
contract or formal agreement;
- she spoke with H over a social media platform which isnt a professional medium; 
- it didnt seem logical to pay H direct given he was securing premises; 
- there was no evidence to show what Mrs K was making the payments for; and 
- she added that by the time the scam claim was raised with Lloyds no funds were 
available. 
Mrs Ks representatives disagreed and provided the additional information:
- She met H in-person and they appeared legitimate.
- She saw examples of previous work, through websites and spreadsheets of 
accounts, showing they were a successful business person, and knew all areas of 
business; including tax requirements.
- H was recommended by a long-time trusted friend.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that these further comments changed the outcome of the 
complaint. She reiterated that Mrs K hadnt provided any clarity or evidence what the 
payments were for.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator but provided more 
detail about how Ive come to those findings.
Has there been a scam?I have considered everything carefully and I am aware of the impact Mrs K says this has had 
on her. I know this wont be the outcome Mrs K was hoping for and Im sorry that the events 
surrounding this claim have caused her such distress and upset. But I cant say that Lloyds 
has made any error here or that it is responsible for Mrs Ks distress and upset. 
Mrs K hasnt provided any evidence to support her claim she was setting up a business. She 
hasnt provided any evidence or correspondence she had with H about what was agreed, 
what steps were being taken, or what the payment was for. 
We have a crime reference number and two messages which show H is aware Mrs K has 
contacted the police and is unhappy about that. The messages with threatening behaviour 
dont demonstrate shes been the victim of an APP scam for the purposes of the CRM code.  
Thats because such circumstances do not fall under either definition of an APP scam 
according to the code: 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
Mrs K knew the person money was going to - H. And although not consistent on this point, 
shes said at least one of the transactions was made through duress, not deception. 
Therefore, the first definition doesnt apply. The second definition also doesnt apply either, 
as payments to a blackmailer cant reasonably be described as legitimate. While the actions 
of the blackmailer would clearly be criminal, they cant be described as fraudulent
So if Mrs K was blackmailed prior to making either of the payments these wouldnt be 
considered as a scam. The two payments sent to this individual could have been for any 
number of reasons. And, as Ive said, theres no evidence to suggest Mrs K was trying to set 
up a business. Moreover, Mrs K has changed her version of events throughout the course of 
this complaint. And unfortunately, I dont find any of her versions particularly persuasive. I 
dont doubt that something has occurred here that has left Mrs K out of pocket and with a 
loan that she feels she shouldnt be held liable for. But I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me she was the victim of a scam. In which case the offer shes received from 
Lloyds is more than I would be awarding. 
Lloyds refund 
Even if I were to find that Mrs K had been the victim of a scam, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
needs to refund more than it already has.
I say this because, like the investigator, I agree Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis of 
belief that the payment was for genuine goods or services, or that the person or business 
with whom she transacted was legitimate. This is in line with the application of the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. I cant see that Mrs K took any steps to 
verify the credentials of the individual she was dealing with. Other than seeing on his laptop, 
work he had allegedly done for others in a similar field. 
Mrs K has given two versions of events for the second payment. If it was as a result of H 
requesting more funds, then Im persuaded Mrs K decided to do so without seeing any 
evidence of work completed or receipts for the spending or use of the previous £10,000, and 
this wasnt reasonable in the circumstances. Or, if Mrs K sent the money under duress or as 
a result of blackmail, then I cant say that she thought this second payment was for legitimate purposes. Either way Im satisfied that Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis for 
sending the second payment. 
In concluding Mrs K didnt have a reasonable basis of belief for proceeding with these 
payments Im satisfied Lloyds is entitled to rely on the exception not to refund Mrs K in full. 
And the 50% refund she has received is fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mrs K wont see a refund of 50% of her losses as fair here. But ultimately it is H 
who has her money and who is to blame. My role is to decide if the bank ought to refund her 
here. And I dont find that it should. 
Mrs K has said that she cant afford to make the loan repayments. Lloyds needs to treat her 
sympathetically and fairly and discuss her repayment options, in light of her financial 
situation. I would expect both Mrs K and Lloyds to discuss this to find a suitable repayment 
plan. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman