DRN-4162455
The complaint
Mr K complains that BUPA Insurance Limited declined his health insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K has private medical insurance thorough his employer, BUPA is the insurer. He was 
diagnosed with a back problem.
On 16 June 2021 Mr K had a caudal epidural, right L4 nerve root injection, right L3/S1 
medial branch block and right sacroiliac joint injection. He claimed on the policy for that 
treatment and BUPA paid that claim.
In his letter of 26 October 2021 Mr Ks consultant orthopaedic spinal surgeon advised Mr K 
to have a set of further injections - caudal epidural, right L5 nerve root injection and right 
L3/S1 medial branch block under sedation - as his discomfort had returned. The private 
hospital phoned BUPA on Mr Ks behalf to ask for pre-authorisation for the further injections 
which were scheduled for early December 2021.
BUPA declined the claim. It said the medial branch block is used for diagnostic purposes 
only to identify the source of nerve pain so that it can be burned away or destroyed. They 
said Mr K had that procedure on 16 June 2021, which was funded, and as that injection 
hadnt identified the issue it wasnt reasonable to expect that another injection would. BUPA 
said as there wasnt a reasonable expectation the injection would work the injection wasnt 
curing the acute condition so it didnt meet the policy definition of eligible treatment and 
wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr K had the procedure and complained to us. He wants BUPA to pay the costs which he 
said was about £3,000. In summary he said:
He didnt accept BUPA could make the clinical judgement that his consultants 
recommended procedures were inappropriate. His consultant was an experienced 
specialist in this field who wouldnt recommend or conduct a procedure that was 
inappropriate or contrary to NICE guidance. It was unfair for BUPA to reach a 
different conclusion by following an administrative review of the information.
The British Association of Spine Surgeons (BASS) website information for spinal 
stenosis said injections can improve the condition permanently and can be repeated. 
The injections he had in December 2021 were the second set so they hadnt been 
repeated several times without success.
He noted the NICE Quality standard said spinal injections for treating low back pain 
without sciatica are not clinically or cost effective. But sciatic pain was his main 
symptom so that didnt apply.
BUPA added that even if the treatment was clinically appropriate that doesnt mean it was 
covered by the policy terms. The medial branch block is temporary, not curing the acute 
condition, meaning its not eligible as ongoing treatment. BUPA said it funded that procedure 
as a diagnostic procedure to allow the consultant to identify where on the spine treatment is 
needed, which Mr K already had in June 2021. BUPA also told us that in February 2022 it 
had covered the cost of Mr Ks surgery for spinal decompression for central spinal stenosis, 
and other later treatment which was aimed to resolve his issue long term so was eligible 
treatment.
Mr K sent us his consultants October 2021 letter to his GP which he said showed he had the 
injections in December 2021 to relieve his leg pain and weakness in legs due to his spinal 
stenosis, so the injections werent a diagnostic procedure.
Our investigator said BUPA fairly declined the claim as the December 2021 spinal injections, 
didnt meet the definition of eligible treatment as defined in the policy terms and was contrary 
to NICE guidance.
Mr K disagreed and wanted an ombudmans decision. He added:
Our investigators recommendation hadnt taken into account his comments about 
the NICE guidance. He presumed our investigator referred to NICE guidance on 
Invasive treatments for low back pain and sciatica at 1.3.1 but the guidance at 1.3.5 
was relevant to him.
Our investigator hadnt taken into account the BASS website information for spinal 
stenosis which said spinal injections could alleviate the sciatic pain and could be 
permanent, so would meet the policy definition of eligible treatment.
The NHS guidance on lumbar decompression surgery said a course of spinal 
injections, so more the one, was one of the treatments to follow before surgery. The 
NHS guidance supported the plan his consultant followed.
Following our investigators recommendation both parties provided a significant amount of 
medical evidence including information from BUPAs medical directors and Mr Ks 
consultant, which were exchanged between the parties. Ultimately BUPA said it would want 
to instruct an independent expert to give an opinion if my decision was to uphold Mr Ks 
complaint.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a decision that I was intending to partly uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Ive considered all the evidence that both parties have provided. Im not going to address all 
the issues raised as Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision.
To be clear, my decision is only about Mr Ks treatment of caudal epidural, right L5 nerve 
root injection and right L3-S1 medial branch block under sedation in December 2021. BUPA 
has commented about whether the treatment in June 2021 was eligible for cover under the 
policy terms, but it paid for that treatment at the time and that matter is closed.
Im intending to partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Not all medical treatment is covered by the policy, even if a doctor has advised a 
policyholder that treatment is clinically appropriate.
The policy only covers eligible treatment which the policy defines as:treatment of:
an acute condition
together with the products and equipment used as part of the treatment that:
are consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice and 
representative of best practices in the medical profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, extent, duration and the 
facility or location where the services are provided, for example as specified 
by NICE (or equivalent bodies in Scotland) in its guidance on specific 
conditions or treatment where such guidance is available
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving 
health outcomes, and
are not provided or used primarily for the expediency of you or your 
consultant or other healthcare professional
and the treatment, services or charges are not excluded under your benefits.
Acute condition is defined in the policy as :
disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery.
Mr Ks consultants letter of 26 October 2021 gave Mr Ks medical diagnosis as:
L3/4 moderate spinal stenosis and lateral stenosis at L4/5
Facet arthropathy at L3/4, L4/5 and L5/S1.
With the planned treatment in December 2021, which is disputed, as:
caudal epidural, right L5 nerve root injection and right L3-S1 medial branch block
under sedation.
Both parties have referred to different NICE guidance on Invasive treatments for low back 
pain and sciatica they consider are relevant. Mr K says the relevant NICE guidance is:
1.3.5 Consider epidural injections of local anaesthetic and steroid in people with 
acute and severe sciatica. [2016]
Mr K says as he had sciatica as a main symptom 1.3.5 applies. From his consultants letter 
of 26 October 2021, I think sciatica was Mr Ks main symptom at that time.
BUPA says the relevant NICE guidance is:
1.3.1 Do not offer spinal injections for managing low back pain. [2016]
and
1.3.6 Do not use epidural injections for neurogenic claudication in people who have
central spinal canal stenosis. [2016].But as BUPAs medical evidence is that spinal stenosis is the diagnosis causing the 
symptom of sciatica and neurogenic claudication is a synonym for the symptom of sciatica, 
not a separate condition, there appears to be some tension between the NICE guidance the 
parties have referred to. BUPA says the medical evidence shows Mr K had mild sciatica, 
but that was noted in the consultants letter of 1 June 2021. The consultants letter of 
26 October 2021, which gives Mr Ks symptoms at the relevant time the disputed treatment 
was advised, doesnt say he had mild sciatica.
I dont think I can reasonably disregard NICE guidance 1.3.5 in the circumstances of this 
case and say all the injections werent clinically appropriate.
In any event the relevant policy term isnt prescriptive in saying cover for treatment relies 
solely on NICE guidance. The relevant term outlines a number of considerations.
The NHS guidance about lumber decompression surgery, which Mr K had after the disputed 
treatment, says:
Lumbar decompression surgery is usually only considered if non-surgical treatments 
for your lower spine haven't worked and symptoms are affecting your quality of life. 
Non-surgical treatments includespinal injection therapy. Spinal injection therapy is 
a course of spinal injections that can be used in combination with other therapies, 
such as physiotherapy. Local anaesthetic and steroids are injected to help reduce 
swelling and inflammation.
I think that NHS guidance shows the disputed injection treatment Mr K had is consistent with 
generally accepted standards of medical practice and part of a common treatment plan. If 
the course of injections havent worked, then surgery is considered. I think that course of 
spinal injections does imply more than one and the December injections were only the 
second set of injections Mr K had.
But to meet the policy definition of eligible treatment Mr K had to have an acute condition 
as defined in the policy which Ive detailed above.
BUPA says the disputed injections treatment also isnt covered because of NICE guidance:
1.3.8 Consider spinal decompression for people with sciatica when non-surgical 
treatment has not improved pain or function and their radiological findings are 
consistent with sciatic symptoms. [2016]
Mr K did go on to have spinal decompression surgery when the December 2021 injections 
didnt work. But its not reasonable for BUPA to say with the benefit of hindsight that as the 
injections didnt return Mr K to his usual state of health they shouldnt be covered.
BUPA also says the injections dont provide permanent relief for the symptoms, just 
temporary relief.
The BASS website information Mr K referred to says:
Epidurals are an injection into the spinal canal that will treat the whole area of the 
lumbar spine. They seem to be more helpful for leg pain rather than back pain.Nerve root blocks, periradicular injections, root canal injections, or transforaminal 
epidurals are some of the names given to injections around a nerve. They can be 
very helpful for leg pain, particularly symptoms in just one leg.
Often by blocking the nerve pain with anaesthetic the symptoms will improve 
permanently or for quite a while. About 60% of patients will respond well. They are 
low risk procedures and can be repeated.
I think that evidence suggests the nerve root injections often improve symptoms 
permanently or at least for quite a while. And as 60% of patients respond well, its more 
likely than not there will be an improvement. BUPA says patients improvement in symptoms 
may reflect the self-limiting history of someones condition rather than be due to the 
intervention. But the BASS information doesnt say what BUPA suggested, it says often by 
blocking the nerve painthe symptoms will improve permanently.
I think the NHS guidance and BASS information suggests nerve block injections could 
potentially have returned Mr K to the state of health he was in before having the condition, 
so would be eligible treatment.
I understand that Mr K had three procedures at the same time in December 2021  caudal 
epidural, right L5 nerve root injection and right L3-S1 medial branch block under sedation.
BUPA says there was no clinical reason for Mr Ks consultant to do a caudal epidural and L5 
nerve root block at the same time as a caudal epidural would block the L4 and L5 nerve 
roots. I think thats reflected in the information on the BASS website which says that 
Epidurals are an injection into the spinal canal that will treat the whole area of the lumbar 
spine. On the evidence I have it appears that it wasnt unreasonable for BUPA to conclude 
that it wasnt medically appropriate for the consultant to do a caudal epidural and nerve root 
block to the L5 in the same procedure.
I also havent seen any evidence the caudal epidural could potentially provide permanent or 
long term relief of symptoms. But even if there was such evidence, Im intending to say that 
only one of those two procedures, the nerve root block to the L5 or the caudal epidural would 
be reasonably covered as eligible treatment. Given the above evidence about the potentially 
permanent positive effect of the nerve root block injection I think thats the procedure which 
should be covered.
BUPA also says the medial branch block injection is a diagnostic process and while it funded 
that procedure in June 2021 as that injection hadnt identified the issue it wasnt reasonable 
to expect that the same injection would do so. Ive seen no compelling evidence to persuade 
me that the medial branch block injection wasnt a diagnostic process.
On the current evidence Im intending to say the medial branch block injection in 
December 2021 wouldnt be covered as eligible treatment under the policy. I think BUPA 
reasonably concluded that as the June 2021 right L3/S1 medial branch block didnt gave a 
successful diagnosis it wasnt reasonable to expect that another of the same injection would 
do so.
Given the overall evidence and the circumstances of this case I think its fair and reasonable 
for BUPA to pay the costs, plus interest as Ive detailed below, of the right L5 nerve root 
injection. As that procedure was done at the same time as the caudal epidural and right 
L3/S1 medial branch block BUPA will need to liaise with Mr Ks consultant to see what costs 
were attributable to the right L5 nerve root injection.I note BUPAs said it wants to get an independent medical expert report if I uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. But bearing in mind the time since Mr K made his complaint, the available 
evidence and the policy terms I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for BUPA to now 
get an independent medical expert report. I think its unlikely, at this stage, to add anything 
further to the significant medical evidence that Ive already been provided with by both 
parties.
Responses to my provisional decision
BUPA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr K sent an email from his consultants personal assistant which he said showed that when 
he had the right L5 nerve root injection there were no additional costs for the two injections 
Id said werent covered by the policy. Mr K said if BUPA agreed to pay the full costs he 
claimed for he was minded to accept my provisional decision but if BUPA disputed that it had 
to pay the full costs he wanted the opportunity to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has accepted my provisional decision. Mr K hasnt sent any new evidence that would 
lead me to change my mind that only the right L5 nerve root injection was covered by the 
policy, not the caudal epidural and right L3/S1 medial branch block.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I think its fair and 
reasonable for BUPA to pay the costs, plus interest as Ive detailed below, of the right L5 
nerve root injection. As that procedure was done at the same time as the caudal epidural 
and right L3/S1 medial branch block BUPA will need to liaise with Mr Ks consultant to see 
what costs were attributable to the right L5 nerve root injection.
Mr K has now provided an email from his consultants personal assistant which he said 
shows that when he had the right L5 nerve root injection there were no additional costs for 
the two injections Id said werent covered by the policy, so he wants BUPA to pay the full 
costs hes claimed. 
Mr K should send the email from his consultants personal assistant to BUPA as part of its 
liaison with his consultant to see what costs were attributable to the right L5 nerve root 
injection. If the parties cant agree those costs then Mr K can complain to BUPA about that 
matter and ultimately he make a separate complaint to us about that matter.
Putting things right
BUPA must pay the costs, plus interest as Ive detailed below, of the right L5 nerve root 
injection. As that procedure was done at the same time as the caudal epidural and right 
L3/S1 medial branch block BUPA will need to liaise with Mr Ks consultant to see what costs 
were attributable to the right L5 nerve root injection.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay the cost of the right 
L5 nerve root injection. Interest* should be added at 8% simple a year from the date of claim 
to the date of settlement. As the right L5 nerve root injection was done at the same time as 
the caudal epidural and right L3/S1 medial branch block BUPA Insurance Limited will need to liaise with Mr Ks consultant to see what costs were attributable to the right L5 nerve root 
injection.
*If BUPA Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr K a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman