DRN-4405480
The complaint
Miss H and Mr S complain that Handelsbanken plc (HB) didnt allow them to capitalise their 
mortgage arrears, which arose during a period of forbearance. Nor did it allow them to apply 
for a fixed rate mortgage product, and it put them under pressure to sell their investment 
properties to avoid losing their home and to repay the arrears on their mortgage.
What happened
Miss H and Mr S had a repayment mortgage with HB. In November 2018, at Miss H and Mr 
Ss request, HB agreed that they could make monthly interest only repayments for a period 
of 12-months (a forbearance). The reason behind this was that Miss H had stopped working 
in order to care for her father. 
At this time HB agreed that the capital sums which became due each month, but not paid, 
would not accrue as arrears. HB agreed that at the conclusion of the forbearance period the 
monthly payments would be increases slightly to ensure the mortgage was then repaid 
within the originally agreed term.
As a result of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, between March 2020 and November 
2021 HB granted further forbearance, and during this period Miss H and Mr S paid £1,000 
per month, with the unpaid balance of the contractual monthly payments (cmp) being 
transferred to an arrears account. 
At the conclusion of this period, HB discussed with Miss H and Mr S the mortgage arrears 
which had built up, and also the difficulty they were experiencing in meeting meet the cmp 
due to some employment difficulties. A broad plan was agreed that Miss H and Mr S would 
sell three of their investment properties. The proceeds from the sale of the first two 
properties would be used to reduce their unsecured personal liabilities, making it easier to 
then meet the cmp. The proceeds from the sale of the third property would then be used to 
repay the outstanding mortgage arrears in full, thus preventing them from having to sell their 
home.
Miss H and Mr S have said that their preference at this time was to have capitalised the 
mortgage arrears to allow them to be repaid over the remaining mortgage term. They also 
said that because they were worried about interest rates rising they asked if they could 
obtain a new fixed rate mortgage deal, but this was declined. They said HB had said it 
couldnt capitalise the arrears and therefore couldnt offer a new fixed rate deal because 
Miss H and Mr S didnt pass its affordability assessment as their gross annual income was 
insufficient. 
After Miss H and Mr S complained to HB, it said it would capitalise the arrears after all, 
despite having some concerns regarding the affordability of the mortgage. It did this because 
in June 2020 it accepted it had indicated that it would operate the forbearance in the same 
way as the 2018 forbearance. As there were then no longer any arrears, HB said that 
although it was not obliged to offer a fixed rate product to any customer, given the error it 
had made regarding the capitalisation of the arrears, and Miss H and Mr S worries over 
rising interest rates, it would be prepared to consider providing them with a fixed rate 
product. Ultimately Miss H and Mr S obtained such a product and didnt have to sell their 
third investment property.
Miss H and Mr S were unhappy with HBs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been 
poor service by HB and it should pay Miss H and Mr S £300 compensation. 
Miss H and Mr S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. 
The accepted facts are that in March 2020 HB told Miss H and Mr S that the forbearance 
they were granting would be on the same terms as that granted in 2018. The significance of 
this is that when HB then discussed the arrears that had built up at the end of the 
forbearance period, what it should have told Miss H and Mr S was that the arrears would be 
capitalised and their cmp would be increasing so that the mortgage would be repaid off 
within the originally agreed term. 
What is clear is that at that time, Miss H and Mr S were experiencing some financial 
difficulties, The plan they agreed to involved selling two of their investment properties in 
order to use those proceeds to reduce some personal debt and make the cmp affordable for 
them. That is sensible. What I must take into account is that at that time the cmp HB and 
Miss H and Mr S were discussing would have been a lesser amount than the cmp had the 
arrears been capitalised. So, logically it must follow that had that lower cmp been considered 
difficult to manage without the need to sell the investment properties, it would have become 
more so had the arrears at that point been capitalised. This leads me to the conclusion that 
on the balance of probabilities it was always likely that Miss H and Mr S would have had to 
sell the first two investment properties in order to manage the increased cmp.
If HB had capitalised the arrears at the conclusion of the forbearance period then that would 
of course have allowed Miss H and Mr S to apply for a fixed rate product, which they couldnt 
whilst in arrears. Fortunately, HB have conceded that point, and although they say they were 
not obliged to offer any customer a fixed rate mortgage product as well as having concerns 
over affordability, they have gone on to make such an offer which Miss H and Mr S have 
taken up. There has therefore been no loss to Miss H and Mr S, and they have avoided 
selling their third investment property too.
I know Miss H and Mr S believe that they have lost three rental properties and £50,000 due 
to a forced sale, but for the reasons I have given above I dont agree that it was HBs actions 
which caused them to sell their investment properties.Putting things right
So, I do agree with our investigator that HB have made errors here and that it would be fair 
and reasonable for them to compensate Miss H and Mr S. HB have of course mitigated the 
effect of their errors by allowing Miss H and Mr S to apply for a fixed rate product and 
capitalising the arrears. This leaves Miss H and Mr S with their stress, frustration and 
inconvenience experienced through the period prior to HB correcting their error. 
Ive given this some further thought to assess whether our investigators suggestion of £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable. It is important to remember that there is no set figure 
for compensatory awards, since the facts of each case are different. Ultimately it is an 
exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances and coming to a figure which feels 
fair, when set against the effect of any failures in service on the person bringing the 
complaint.
When we make awards of compensation we categorise them and examples of these can be 
found on our website.
I think the relevant category for this this complaint would be the second category; An award 
.. of up to £300 is usually applicable when an error has caused frustration and annoyance 
more than you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more 
than just minimal. 
So, although Miss H and Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I intend to 
recommend HB compensate Miss H and Mr S with £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that Handelsbanken plc should pay Miss H and Mr S £300 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman