DRN-3793406
The complaint
In November 2017, Mr P invested £40,000 into a 5 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond 
with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc). He says that he was mis-sold the investment by 
Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium).
Mr P says the information relating to the risk asscoiated with bond was misleading and the 
bond was mismanaged as he was unaware funds invested were then lent to a single pay 
day lender.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr P invested in a B&G Plc 5 Year Compounding High-Yield Bond. Sales of this bond were 
dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from B&G plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd 
arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG 
Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 2017 
to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ps investment in the bond
Mr P visited BG Ltds website after seeing an advert online whilst looking for better rates of 
interest for his exisiting savings. Mr P says he was then contacted by a representative of BG 
Ltd. 
Mr P says at the time of application he was self-employed and had around £10,000 in cash 
savings after investing in the bond. He says hed previously invested around £5,000 in some 
low to medium risk Out of Bank investments and considers himself as an inexperienced 
investor. Mr P says he didnt think the B&G Plc bond carried any risk.
Mr P says he completed the online application form on BG Ltds website. In total he invested 
£40,000 in the bond. The bond Mr P invested in offered an interest rate 9.01% per year, with 
the invested capital to be returned after five years.
When Mr P referred his complaint to us we asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd 
held. We were provided with copies of some call recordings, but Ive only referred to any I 
consider relevant such as a call between Mr P and BG Ltd whilst Mr P completed the online 
application.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr P 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr P says he completed his application for the bond online. As I referred to above, weve 
also been provided a call recording during which Mr P was in the process of completing the 
online application whilst speaking to an advisor from BG Ltd.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I think it is most likely that Mr P did initially 
complete an online application. While he does appear to have had some telephone contact 
with BG Ltd, from what Ive seen I think he would have still been required to apply online 
first. So Ive examined the online application process to help me reach my decision.  
Ive seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr P underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr P 
was categorised as everyday. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ps complaint
Gallium didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions, once Mr Ps 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ps complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
   The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr P as a restricted 
investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for him - was 
misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.
    Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr P wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr P to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mr P for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the Investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ps complaint.
   Regardless of label, Mr P was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr P giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
   The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
   It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
   Mr P made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and 
did not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of 
the concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment 
regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the releavant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the Investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
   BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr P into certifying himself as belonging 
in a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the 
term used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being 
one anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr P fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr P, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
   The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr P. In the circumstances Mr P would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr P.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr P would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr P for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investment.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Gallium must:
 Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
 Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
  Pay to Mr P £350 for distress and inconvenience caused to him by the total loss of 
the investment. Further to this, Mr P, within  his submission, has mentioned that he 
has suffered from added anxiety as a direct result of this. So, I think the payment for 
distress and inconvenience he suffered is appropriate.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Still exists but 
illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year from 
final decision to 
settlement (if not settled 
within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr P agrees to Gallium taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr P that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
 Mr P wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr P would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital. here
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman