DRN-4070825
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) didnt refund a payment he 
made using his credit card.
What happened
On 5 December 2022, Mr J purchased flights for himself and another traveller from a 
supplier/merchant  who I will refer to as the Company  using his Capital One credit card. 
The total cost charged to Mr Js credit card was approximately £517. 
Mr J said that the first payment that he attempted to make when booking the flights was 
declined, however, as he bought a new phone, a second attempt was put through. This 
second attempt required his fingerprint to approve the transaction. He said that this was 
something he has never done before on the application, so he thought he was only 
unlocking his phone. He said that he didnt realise instead that the payment was being 
made. He questions why Capital One has allowed this payment to go through, even though 
the first payment was declined. 
Mr J is unhappy because the airlines and the Company wouldnt provide him with a refund. 
And, when he contacted Capital One the next day after the purchase was made, they too 
were unable to help him.
 
In January 2023, Capital One wrote to Mr J and said that, whilst they appreciate Mr J didnt 
mean to make the transaction and using his fingerprint authentication was an accident, he 
did still provide the Company with authority to charge his credit card. 
Regarding the transaction being allowed to go through after it was initially declined, they 
explained that, at the time, they wouldnt know he had processed the transaction a second 
time in error. And if they were to decline transactions simply because theyd been declined 
previously, they couldve caused him major inconvenience. In this correspondence they 
explained that they have a dispute process in place to see whether they can help in certain 
situations, that is why they asked him for the booking confirmation, service date, cancellation 
proof, and the merchant's terms and conditions. Unfortunately, they said, that when they 
reviewed this, they found that they are unable to help because he authorised the payment, 
and the merchants terms and conditions advise that no refunds are available.
Mr J was not happy that Capital One wouldnt refund him the money he paid to the 
Company, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He didnt think 
Capital One acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback and he didnt think there was a 
successful claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) as there 
was no breach or misrepresentation of the contract. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
This decision is not about the Company who isnt a financial service provider for the 
transaction in question and so doesnt fall within this services remit. So, in this decision Im 
only considering the question of whether Capital One have treated Mr J fairly. 
As Mr J used his credit card to book the flights with the Company, Capital One had two 
options to pursue a refund for this  chargeback and Section 75. Its normal practice to try a 
chargeback first. 
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. The chargeback is a voluntary scheme which looks to resolve payment 
disputes between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. These disputes are dealt with under 
the relevant card scheme rules. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a 
chargeback when a consumer asks for one, but I would consider it good practice for Capital 
One to pursue a chargeback, as long as it was possible to do so (within the scheme rules 
and criteria) and provided there is a reasonable prospect of success. This would include 
circumstances where goods or services arent supplied.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund as the supplier/merchant can put forward a 
defence to the chargeback claim. If the chargeback is defended, Capital One could pursue 
the chargeback further and ultimately ask the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the 
outcome. My role in such cases is not to second-guess the card schemes arbitration 
decision or the schemes rules, but to determine whether the card issuer (in this case Capital 
One) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting, or choosing not to present, and when 
choosing whether to continue with the chargeback process, on behalf of their cardholder (in 
this case Mr J).
Capital One didnt raise a chargeback, so Ive taken this into consideration when looking at 
whether they acted fairly by not pursuing this option. Ive also taken a note of what both 
parties have told us.
As I said, I would consider it good practice for Capital One to pursue a chargeback, bearing 
in mind scheme rules and criteria, and when there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
Capital One didnt raise a chargeback. But Im satisfied that they didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by not raising it as I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success 
considering that the tickets were non-refundable as per the terms and conditions.
Mr J has said that Capital One were immediately told that the payment was made in error, so 
he feels that they had plenty of time to claw the money back allowing the airlines to re-issue 
and sell the seats, but they failed to act accordingly. He said that the whole point of making 
payments by using his credit card was to protect himself from errors of this nature. I 
understand this, but Ive not been given anything to show that the flights he purchased in 
error were refundable. As such, Mr J wasnt contractually entitled to a refund under the terms 
and conditions if he chose not to use them. So, Im satisfied that Capital One acted fairly and reasonably by not pursuing the chargeback request as there was no reasonable prospect of 
success.
Section 75 claim 
Section 75 sets out that in certain circumstances Mr J can bring a claim against Capital One 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the Company. This is because, as the 
credit provider, Capital One is jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the Company. Theres no suggestion of a misrepresentation here, nor does the available 
evidence indicate one. So, Ive thought about whether Mr J has demonstrated that theres 
been a breach of contract.
From the evidence available, it seems that Mr J purchased flights for himself and another 
traveller which, based on the evidence available, were most likely non-refundable. I know Mr 
J feels strongly that Capital One shouldve refunded the money he has paid as he notified 
them quickly and was not used to using his fingerprint as means of payment authorisation. 
But theres nothing in the available evidence to show that this is something the Company 
was required to do. And the Company was still willing to provide the services that Mr J had 
booked. So, Im satisfied that he hasnt demonstrated that there was a breach of contract 
and as such, Im satisfied that Capital One hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
giving Mr J a refund for the flights.
As above, Section 75 only applies in certain circumstances. Given that Im satisfied Mr J has 
not demonstrated that there has been a breach of contract and theres no suggestion of a 
misrepresentation, I dont need to make a finding on whether all those circumstances are 
present here.
I sympathise with Mr J for the difficulties that he is experiencing but, taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I think Capital One has acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with his chargeback and his Section 75 claim. So, it is not fair or 
reasonable for me to require Capital One to take any action in response to Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman