DRN-2939873
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved rent payments that took his account 
balance over the agreed overdraft limit. 
What happened
At the end of March 2020 Barclays approved a standing order payment of £495 for Mr Fs 
rent despite there being insufficient funds left in his overdraft facility. Barclays has explained 
Mr Fs account is linked to a business account he operates which meant the payment was 
authorised despite exceeding the overdraft limit. 
Mr F contacted Barclays a few days later and complained. Barclays advised Mr F could ask 
for his funds back from the landlord. Barclays apologised and refunded £18.75 to cover 
overdraft fees and paid Mr F £25. Mr Fs rent standing order was again paid despite being in 
an unauthorised overdraft position at the end of April 2020. 
Mr F complained to Barclays and it ultimately cancelled his standing order instruction. 
Barclays paid Mr F a further £270 and apologised but didnt agree to refund his rent 
payments. Barclays suggested Mr F transfer funds from his business account to his personal 
account in order to bring it back within the overdraft limit. 
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Fs complaint but thought Barclays had dealt with 
it fairly. Mr F asked to appeal and said he wanted his rent payment to fail in March 2020 as 
government legislation had been put in place to protect tenants from eviction. Mr F also said 
he didnt want Barclays to cancel the standing order as his landlord wouldve known hed 
purposefully withheld payment. As Mr F asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has asked how payments were able to leave his account despite his balance exceeding 
the overdraft limit. Barclays has explained that a setting on its systems incorrectly identified 
Mr Fs personal account as a business account. Barclays says that setting allowed standing 
orders to go through despite Mr Fs account balance being above his overdraft limit. I agree 
that an error by Barclays led to rent payments being made despite Mr F having insufficient 
funds available. 
I can see Mr F first raised the issue with Barclays at the end of March 2020 but a month later 
it approved a second rent payment for £495. Had Barclays amended Mr Fs account settings 
it wouldve meant the April 2020 rent payment wouldnt have been made. I agree errors by 
Barclays led to March and April 2020 rent payments being made despite Mr F having 
insufficient funds available in his current account. 
Mr F has told us three rent payments were incorrectly paid by Barclays but Ive only found 
two. At the end of February 2020 Mr Fs overdraft had more than enough left to make his 
rent payment. And no payment was taken at the end of May 2020. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Fs complaint. As Ive said above, I agree Barclays 
made errors here. But I think its reasonable to say those errors meant Mr Fs rent was paid. 
Mr F has forwarded some government guidance that talks about how landlords should treat 
tenants whilst in arrears. Ive read the guidance provided but it doesnt say that, as a tenant, 
Mr F didnt have to pay rent. The guidance provides information for tenants in arrears and 
facing possible eviction during the pandemic. So whilst Barclays did approve payments, Im 
not persuaded that led to a financial loss for Mr F. Ultimately, instead of owing his landlord 
for missed rent payments, the funds were owed under Mr Fs overdraft facility. 
I appreciate Mr F wanted his standing order to fail instead of cancelling it. But, as Ive said 
above, I havent been persuaded Barclays error led to a loss. Ive taken the impact of 
Barclays errors on Mr F into account. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I havent been persuaded to increase the settlement 
Barclays has paid in this case. As Ive said above, I agree that errors led to Barclays making 
two rent payments last year. And Ive taken on board how upsetting the situation was for Mr 
F, especially after the second rent payment was approved. But Barclays initially paid Mr F 
£18.75 for overdraft fees and £25 to apologise. Barclays followed that with a payment of 
£270. In my view, the £313.75 total compensation Barclays has already paid fairly reflects 
the impact of its errors on Mr F. 
As Im satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mr Fs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Barclays has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman