DRN-3971710
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with QIC Europe Ltds handling of, and suggested settlement for, a claim 
he made for fire damage to his home.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr Gs property was damaged by a fire and he 
made a successful claim through his home insurance provider  QIC.
QIC appointed one of its contractors to repair Mr Gs home. But Mr G raised several issues 
with the contractor, including the quality of their works and cleaning, that they caused further 
damage with their drying equipment, they lost keys and that some personal belongings of 
Mr Gs went missing. 
Mr G requested a new contractor, but instead QIC suggested a cash settlement. Mr G has 
appointed his own surveyor to support him with his claim. He wants QIC to cover his costs, 
but QIC says these arent covered under the terms of the policy. Mr G is also seeking 
reimbursement of electricity costs and lost rental income, in lieu of alternative 
accommodation payments, as he is staying in a rental property he owns. To date, no 
agreement over the settlement, including the surveyors costs, has been reached. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said the 
relationship between Mr G and QIC had broken down and without the surveyor, she didnt 
feel the claim would have progressed as far as it has. So, she said QIC should cover Mr Gs 
surveyors costs.
She explained that QIC was able to appoint another of its network contractors to complete 
the works. So, she said it was fair to offer this option, or a cash settlement equal to the 
amount it would cost QICs contractor to complete the works  rather than meeting the cost 
of the quotes provided by Mr G.
She also said she was persuaded by the expert report Mr G provided, that significant further 
cleaning works were required. So, she said QIC should cover those costs, along with the 
additional electricity costs Mr G could evidence hed incurred as a result of the drying works.
Finally, our investigator said QIC should cover Mr Gs lost rental income (in lieu of alternative 
accommodation) until Mr Gs property was habitable again, and that it should pay him 
£2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a result of its poor 
handling of the claim.
QIC didnt accept our investigators opinion. As no agreement has could be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a provisional 
decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond, before I reached my final decision.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been several businesses and individuals involved in the complaint  
acting as representatives or agents of either Mr G or QIC. But for ease of reference, 
Ill only refer to Mr G and QIC in this decision  even when referring to the actions or 
arguments of their representatives.
Having carefully considered this complaint, Im minded to reach a different outcome 
to that reached by our investigator. Ill explain why, addressing each issue in turn.
Mr Gs surveyors costs
Its not in dispute that things went wrong with QICs initial contractor. They incorrectly 
fitted flooring before sufficient cleaning had been undertaken and they lost keys to 
the property. Items of Mr Gs were also incorrectly disposed of.
Mr G has also said the wrong drying equipment was used which caused additional 
damage to his home. I havent seen that QIC has accepted this point, but Mr Gs 
expert cleaning report confirms this was the case, so Im persuaded that this 
happened.
Mr G says he didnt feel QIC listened to his concerns when he raised them, so he felt 
he need to appoint his own surveyor to support him with his claim. I can appreciate 
why Mr G was frustrated as he felt QIC were appropriately dealing with his concerns. 
I dont doubt that he felt he needed some support at the time. But Im not persuaded 
that it was necessary for him to incur the cost of appointing a specialist surveyor to 
support him, or that it would be fair or reasonable to direct QIC to cover the costs he 
incurred in doing so. 
I say this firstly because Mr G would have been aware that his policy doesnt cover 
him for professional costs of this nature, as its explained in his policy:
We dont cover: 
a. any fees charged to help you prepare your claim; and 
b. any fees which we have not agreed in advance or do not consider 
necessary to reinstate the buildings.
Secondly, rather than incurring the cost of appointing a surveyor, Mr G could have 
followed QICs published complaints process if he was unhappy with QIC, which if 
not able to resolve his concerns, would have resulted in him being referred to our 
service  free of charge.
Ultimately, it was Mr Gs choice to incur the cost of appointing an expert to support 
him in making his claim, and he made that choice in possession of sufficient 
information to outline the costs wouldnt be covered, and that there were other 
options available. So, Im not currently minded to direct QIC to reimburse the costs 
Mr G has incurred in appointing his surveyor.To be clear though, Im not suggesting that things havent gone wrong, or that QIC 
doesnt need to put things right. Ill explore this in later sections. However, I dont 
think it would be fair to direct QIC to cover Mr Gs surveyors costs, when they 
werent agreed in advance and when the claim could have progressed without Mr G 
incurring those costs.
Cleaning costs
Whether or not the cleaning works carried out by QIC were adequate, has been one 
of the primary areas of dispute.
QIC says it has cleaned down the property and applied suitable soot sealing. It says 
it is confident no further cleaning is required. 
Mr G disagrees. He instructed a cleaning expert (one who is widely used within the 
insurance industry) to inspect his house and report on the adequacy of previous 
cleaning and/or what further cleaning is required. 
Mr Gs report highlighted that significantly more cleaning was required as a result of 
the fire and subsequent attempted repairs. Given the poor performance of QICs 
initial contractor overall, and the fact that Mr Gs report was prepared by an expert in 
their field and is suitably detailed, Im persuaded that QICs initial cleaning was 
inadequate and that further cleaning is necessary.
QIC has highlighted that Mr Gs report contained works which went over and above 
that required, for example works to the attic which hadnt been previously agreed or 
evidenced, and replacement of flooring which Mr Gs own surveyor had previously 
agreed could be sanded and reused. It also included asbestos testing, but QIC has 
already completed this.
Ive seen that QIC has included the cost for sanding down the living room floor in its 
amended scope of works. And QIC has agreed to cover the works to the attic, as a 
gesture of goodwill, to avoid the need for further site visits. I think this part of QICs 
offer is fair.
But, as Im persuaded the remainder of the cleaning works are outstanding, Im 
intending to direct QIC to cover the cost of Mr Gs report, and for the works required, 
less the works for the asbestos testing, attic works and living room floor. If Mr G has 
already paid to have this cleaning work done, Im also minded to direct QIC to add 
8% simple interest to the amount Im directing it cover, from the date Mr G was out of 
pocket until the date he is reimbursed  to compensate him for being deprived of the 
use of that money for other purposes.
Settlement offer
To date there have been several cash settlement offers made, none of which have 
been accepted. Mr G has also provided his own quotes for reinstatement which QIC 
hasnt accepted.
Mr G has argued that he has reasonably lost faith with QIC and its contractor. Based 
on this, he feels the fairest thing would be for QIC to meet the cost of his quote.QIC says his quote contains some elements which were not agreed between its 
contractor and Mr Gs surveyor during site visits. But in the interest of progressing 
matters, it agreed to add those works to its own scope. But QIC says it wont meet 
the cost of Mr Gs quote because it has an alternative network contractor who can 
complete the works, or it can offer a cash settlement in line with the costs it would 
incur in completing the works.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here. Ordinarily, where something has 
gone wrong with works completed by an insurers contractor, Id consider it fair for 
that contractor to get an opportunity to correct things. But given the multitude of 
things which appear to have gone wrong, I do appreciate that Mr G has completely 
lost faith in that contractor.
However, QIC is able to appoint another of its network contractors to complete the 
works. So, in these circumstances, I think it would be fair for QIC to be given the 
chance to put things right via this alternative contractor in lieu of the original 
contractor being given another opportunity. So QIC would essentially be following our 
approach of being given an opportunity to put things right, albeit via another 
contractor. And I think thats fair.
Should Mr G remain of the view that he doesnt want to allow QIC to do this, then 
QIC has offered to settle the claim in cash. But it says the amount of the cash 
settlement will be equal to the amount it would pay its contractor to complete the 
works  in line with the below policy terms:
When settling your claim, if we decide that we can offer rebuilding work, 
repairs or replacements, we will ask you to choose one of the following 
options.
 
a. We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to 
carry out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements. 
b. We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost 
us to use our preferred contractor
QICs cash settlement offer is based on an agreed scope of works for the 
reinstatement works, plus a quote supplied by Mr G for the supply and fitting of a new 
kitchen. However, Mr G has since evidenced that his kitchen quotes have increased, 
due to the time it has taken to reach this point and the increasing cost of building 
materials. So, as Ive decided that QIC is responsible for the delays here, it follows 
that I think it should increase the settlement offer for the kitchen, in line with Mr Gs 
updated quotes.
Ive also seen that Mr G has raised concerns, at various points, about items he feels 
have been missed from QICs scope. For example, the cost of a rewire, removing his 
dishwasher and a soda blast. But having reviewed QICs schedule of works, and the 
kitchen quote, I can confirm these items have all been included/accounted for in 
QICs offer.
QIC has also confirmed that its scope of works is based on certain industry rates, 
which are regularly reviewed to account for increases in the cost of materials. It 
maintains that the amount offered is what its contractor can do the works for. So, 
Mr G has the choice of asking for QICs contractor to do the works or accepting QICs 
cash settlement.Ive considered QICs position on the claim settlement and, taking everything into 
account, I think its reasonable. So, Im currently minded to decide that QICs offer of 
a new contractor, or its revised cash settlement if Mr G prefers, is fair and 
reasonable. But, as above, QIC must also increase the kitchen element of Mr Gs 
settlement.
Additional accommodation
Mr Gs policy provides cover for alternative accommodation, and QIC covered his 
initial costs for this while its contractor was working at Mr Gs property. However, QIC 
correctly pointed out that Mr Gs policy only provides this cover for 12 months.
Mr G moved out of the alternative accommodation and into a rental property he 
owns. So, instead of incurring alternative accommodation costs, Mr G has been 
suffering a loss of rent instead. QIC said it was prepared to pay a further six months 
loss of rent (in lieu of alternative accommodation which is what the policy actually 
covers) as part of its cash settlement. It wasnt prepared to cover longer than this, as 
it says the reason for the prolonged delay to the complaint, was Mr Gs dispute over 
the cleaning.
As Im minded to decide that Mr Gs property does require further cleaning, it follows 
that it is QIC, not Mr G, that is responsible for the prolonged delay to the claim. 
Because of this, and in light of the issues caused by its contractor which resulted in 
this complaint, I think it would be fair and reasonable for QIC to disregard the 12-
month limitation and continue to cover Mr Gs loss of rent (in lieu of alternative 
accommodation) until his property is habitable again. Or for the period it calculates 
the repairs would have taken its contractor to complete, if Mr G opts to accept the 
cash settlement.
Storage costs
Mr G has complained that QICs settlement offer doesnt include the full costs he has, 
or will, incur for storage of his contents. 
Ive seen that QIC has covered some of Mr Gs storage costs. But again, it didnt 
agree that it should continue to cover these costs during the prolonged delay to the 
claim due to the dispute over the cleaning costs.
But again, Im of the view that QIC is responsible for that delay. So, I think QIC ought 
to continue covering Mr Gs storage costs until his property is habitable again  or for 
the period it calculates the repairs would have taken its contractor to complete, if 
Mr G opts to accept the cash settlement. 
And, if Mr G can evidence that hes already paid for some of these additional storage 
costs, then QIC should also add 8% simple interest to the amount it reimburses, to 
compensate Mr G for being deprived of the use of that money for other purposes.
Electricity costs
Mr G says QIC has failed to reimburse him for the additional electricity costs hes 
incurred as a result of the drying. 
QIC has said it is prepared to cover the additional drying costs, subject to receipt of 
evidence of the costs Mr G has incurred. I think this offer is fair and reasonable. But, as with the storage costs, if Mr Gs evidence shows he has already paid for 
these additional costs, then QIC should also add 8% simple interest to the amount it 
reimburses, to compensate Mr G for being deprived of the use of that money for 
other purposes.
Wardrobes, contents and carpets
Mr G has also complained that he was offered £3,000 for fitted wardrobes, but this 
amount was later revised to £1,500. 
QIC explained it had no evidence of this offer having been made. However, it has 
agreed to honour the offer nonetheless, as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is fair.
In addition to the offer for the wardrobes, I can see QIC has offered to pay £1,510 for 
the remaining contents and £450 for the damaged carpets. As far as Im aware these 
figures arent in dispute. So, in addition to the £3,000 for the wardrobes, QIC should 
pay these amounts in line with the offer it has already made.
Compensation
Our investigator thought Mr G had suffered a significant level of distress and 
inconvenience as a result of QIC and its contractors handling of his claim and 
complaint. She said QIC should pay Mr G £2,000 compensation.
QIC didnt accept that such a high amount was warranted. It agreed that its level of 
service had fallen short, and that Mr G had been unduly inconvenienced. But it said 
£750 was a fairer amount of compensation.
Ive thought carefully about the full circumstances of this complaint. I do think that 
QIC has tried to work with Mr G to resolve his concerns and the issues at the heart of 
his claim and complaint. For example, by reviewing and amending its scope to 
account for additional items and by agreeing to include works which havent been 
properly evidenced or that werent agreed at the site visit between QIC and his 
surveyor. But I also cant ignore that a lot has gone wrong with this claim and 
complaint.
Ive already broadly summarised the various issues caused by QICs initial 
contractor. And I note that when Mr G requested a new contractor, QIC didnt engage 
with his request and instead stuck with their contractor without offering an 
explanation. In addition, as explained in the above sections, Im of the view that QIC 
is responsible for the length of time this claim has been allowed to continue for, 
because it failed to adequately clean Mr Gs house, and to accept this even in the 
face of the evidence Mr G provided.
As a result of the above, I agree with our investigator that QIC should pay Mr G 
£2,000 to appropriately compensate him for the impact its errors have had on him.
QIC responded to confirm that it accepted my provisional conclusions.
Mr G responded to confirm he was broadly happy. But he maintained that QIC ought to 
cover his surveyors fees and that it should pay a cash settlement based on his contractors 
costs so that he could get the work done without having to rely on QIC or its contractors. He 
also highlighted the number of hours spent on the claim and complaint, to illustrate that the 
level of compensation, while significant, was not enough.Mr G also highlighted some elements of the contents settlement which did remain in dispute, 
contrary to what I said in my provisional decision.
Mr G highlighted the following contents items which he said remained outstanding:
Two rugs 
Curtains
Lampshade 
Two mattresses
Mirrored wardrobe
Russian Standard Gold Vodka with box
Czech Spirit sealed bottle
6 miniature bottles of prosecco
I shared Mr Gs response about these contents elements with QIC. It agreed there were 
some elements outstanding, but said it had previously confirmed to Mr G that those items 
would be settled. However, QIC didnt agree that the mirrored wardrobe, rugs or alcohol 
required additional settlement. It said the rugs were cleaned and not deemed to be beyond 
economical repair, the wardrobe was included in the £3,000 offered for the fitted wardrobes 
and the alcohol had already been settled.
I shared these comments with Mr G who disagreed. He explained that the offer for the 
mirrored wardrobe, which was freestanding and in a different room to the fitted wardrobes, 
was clearly separate. He said the rugs were damaged by the fire service and that the £20 
QIC says it paid for the alcohol wasnt enough to cover the vodka, let alone all of it. Mr G 
said he acknowledged these items were relatively minor in the context of the claim, but he 
felt QICs attitude to these items was further evidence of poor service.
Ive since spoken with QIC and it has agreed to reconsider its position on the wardrobe, 
subject to evidence that it was damaged in the fire. It also says that if Mr G can evidence 
that the rugs in question are different to those already cleaned, and/or that they require 
replacement, that it will consider those too. But it maintains that the alcohol has already been 
settled. It highlighted that in addition to the £20 paid for the vodka, a further £200 was paid 
for assorted bottles of alcohol.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision, and the subsequent 
comments Ive received from the parties. 
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same outcome that I reached in my provisional 
decision. But the award Im making will differ slightly to take into account the contents 
elements which were disputed. Where Im making an additional award, QIC has been 
notified of that intention and has had the opportunity to comment on it.
As large parts of my provisional decision were accepted by both sides, Ill not go over each 
point again. Instead, Ill focus on those points which werent accepted and will address each 
in turn.Surveyors costs
I fully appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling with regard to QICs handling of his claim. But I 
already considered the arguments Mr G has made about his surveyors costs when reaching 
my provisional conclusions. The points Mr G has raised in response arent new and 
therefore have not persuaded me to change my findings.
I explained in my provisional decision that Mr Gs policy does not cover professional costs of 
this nature, and while I know Mr G understandably felt he needed support, I dont think it was 
necessary for him to incur the costs of a professional surveyor when he could have followed 
QICs complaint procedure and been referred to our service free of charge.
It was ultimately, Mr Gs choice to incur the cost of appointing an expert to support him in 
making his claim, and he made that choice in possession enough information to understand 
that those costs wouldnt be covered by his policy, and that there were other options 
available. So, Im not awarding Mr Gs surveyors costs.
Method of settlement
Again, before reaching my provisional decision I had carefully considered Mr Gs evidence 
and arguments around how the settlement should be made.
I set out the relevant policy wording which explains that QIC can limit a cash settlement to 
the amount it would cost it to do the works. But given the poor workmanship and delays 
which have occurred, I dont think that approach, in isolation, would be fair because I can 
understand why Mr G lost faith in the initial contractor. 
However, QIC is able to appoint another of its network contractors to complete the works 
required at Mr Gs property. And, as stated in my provisional decision, I think it is fair for QIC 
to have the opportunity to put things right in this way, with a completely new contractor, 
rather than expecting it to pay a higher cash settlement so that Mr G can use his own 
contractors.
I appreciate Mr G is worried about the skill and care of QICs contractor, and that things 
could go wrong again, based on his experience with the first contractor. But Im not able to 
decide on something which hasnt happened yet. My decision here is based on what I think 
is fair and reasonable at this stage. And for the reasons Ive explained, I think its fair for QIC 
to have an opportunity to put things right  via a new network contractor  before I would 
consider awarding a higher cash settlement amount. 
That said, given the delays and poor service Mr G has experienced up to this point, I would 
expect QIC (and its contractor) to prioritise the commencement of his repair works  should 
he decide to allow QIC to appoint another contractor.
If Mr G remains unhappy to allow QIC this opportunity, then I think it is fair for QIC to settle 
the claim based on its revised cash settlement offer  including the increased settlement for 
the kitchen based on the up-to-date quote.Compensation
Its not in dispute that this claim and complaint have been delayed by the actions of QIC and 
its agents, causing distress and inconvenience to Mr G and his family. However, as noted in 
my provisional decision, QIC has also agreed to settle multiple items despite there not being 
strong supporting evidence and it has funded (and will continue to fund) alternative 
accommodation (or loss of rent in lieu of this) beyond the limits of the policy  which goes 
some way to reducing the level of inconvenience. 
I also have to consider that some level of upheaval and inconvenience is to be expected in 
claims of this nature and isnt something that QIC can reasonably be held responsible for. 
That said, I fully appreciate that Mr G and his family have been caused significant additional 
distress and inconvenience, over and above that which could typically be expected, solely 
due to the actions of QIC (and its agents).
Ive thought about what Mr G has said about the time he has spent dealing with QIC. But our 
service doesnt typically base compensation for distress and inconvenience on the number 
of hours a policyholder has spent dealing with a claim. Rather, we consider the overall 
impact of the issues which the insurer is solely responsible for, and thats what Ive done 
here.
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view that £2,000 compensation is enough to 
fairly compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a direct result 
of the things QIC did wrong.
Contents
I shared Mr Gs breakdown of outstanding contents with QIC and it confirmed that it had 
agreed to settle a sofa, curtains, two mattresses and a lampshade  but that these hadnt yet 
been paid. So, in addition to the awards set out in my provisional decision, Im directing QIC 
to settle these items in line with its offer.
QIC initially stated that the mirrored wardrobe was included in the settlement amount for the 
fitted wardrobes. But it later confirmed it couldnt find specific evidence of this within its 
complaint file. So, QIC has confirmed it will accept and settle the claim for this wardrobe, 
subject to evidence that it was damaged in the fire. I think this is fair and reasonable.
QIC also highlighted that it had cleaned several rugs and they were not deemed to be 
beyond economical repair. So, it doesnt agree that rugs remain outstanding. However, if 
Mr G can evidence that these rugs are separate to those cleaned, and/or that they are 
beyond economical repair, then QIC will consider settling those too. I think this offer is fair 
and reasonable.
In terms of the alcohol, QIC provided a breakdown of the contents it had already settled, 
which included £20 for a bottle of vodka and 20 plus bottles of booze at £200.
I know Mr G disputes the £20 offered for the vodka as he says it was worth closer to £40. 
But QIC has paid £220, overall, for alcohol, which exceeds the amounts Mr G provided for 
the vodka, Czech spirit and prosecco. Ultimately, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that the £220 paid wasnt enough to cover all the missing alcohol. So, Im not 
making an additional direction against QIC for the alcohol.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs complaint 
in part. 
QIC Europe Ltd must:
Allow Mr G to choose between appointing another of QICs network contractors to 
complete the repairs or accepting its proposed cash settlement. Should Mr G accept 
a network contractor, QIC should prioritise commencement of the repairs in light of 
the history of this claim.
Increase the settlement offer for the kitchen in line with the up-to-date quote.
Increase the settlement for the fitted wardrobes to £3,000 and settle the outstanding 
contents items  sofa, curtains, mattresses, lampshade and carpets  in line with the 
offer it has already made.
Accept and settle the claims for the freestanding mirrored wardrobe and replacement 
rugs, subject to receipt of supporting evidence.
Cover the cost of the cleaning report and the works set out within it, less the cost of 
the asbestos testing, attic works and living room floor.
Continue covering Mr Gs loss of rent (in lieu of alternative accommodation) and 
storage costs until his property is habitable again, or for the period it calculates the 
repairs would have taken its contractor to complete, if Mr G opts to accept the cash 
settlement.
Cover the cost of additional electricity usage at Mr Gs property as a result of the 
drying equipment  subject to receipt of evidence.
If Mr G can evidence he has already paid any of the above costs, add 8% simple 
interest* to the amounts he is due, from the date he was out of pocket, to the date he 
is reimbursed.
Pay Mr G £2,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman