DRN-3456527
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), did not do enough to 
protect her from falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
Miss R was looking to purchase flights for her and her children. She came across an advert 
for a travel company (who Ill refer to as AT within this decision) on a well-known social 
media platform. Miss R says she clicked on a link within the advert and she was taken to a 
chat function with them. Miss R says AT gave her a good deal and said she could pay in 
instalments and via the payment service provider she had an account with and had used 
before.  
Between 30 December 2021 and 7 March 2022, Miss R made seven payments totalling 
£2,933.63 to an account in her name that she held with a payment service provider. She 
made these payments to the payment service provider using her NatWest debit card. It is 
from Miss Rs account with the payment service provider that the payments were then made 
to the scammer. 
For ease the payments Miss R made are as follows: 
Date Type of Transaction Amount
30/12/2021 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£1,123.94
30/12/2021 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£22.94
01/01/2022 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£34.26
06/01/2022 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£454.88
10/01/2022 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£485.03
25/02/2022 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£386.24
07/03/2022 Debit card payment to payment 
service provider£426.34
Miss R says she became aware shed been the victim of a scam after shed made the final 
payment. After making the last payment on 7 March 2022, Miss R says AT were supposed 
to send her a confirmation of the booking but as she didnt receive this she went back onto 
the page and discovered the page had disappeared. Miss R explains she got in touch with 
the airline shed been told the flights were with, but was informed there was no record of any 
flights booked in her name. 
Miss R contacted NatWest on 18 March 2022 to ask for its help. NatWest having looked into 
things said it would not reimburse Miss R the money shed lost. It said Miss R had not 
completed any independent checks on AT and had willingly made the transactions on the 
back of believing she was dealing with a legitimate business. NatWest also said it was not 
the point of compromise  as Miss R paid the funds to her own account which she had with 
the payment service provider. However, NatWest agreed it had not provided the level of 
service itd expect and apologised for this. It referred to the poor level of service whilst 
speaking with the fraud team and it noted that it expects its representatives to respond to 
customer enquiries in a prompt and professional manner and call back when promised. In 
recognition of the service provided, NatWest credited £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.   
As Miss R remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that when Miss R 
notified NatWest that shed been the victim of a scam she thought it couldve considered the 
claim under the chargeback process. But even if it had done, she didnt think a chargeback 
wouldve had a reasonable prospect of success. This was because, the service the 
chargeback would have been raised against was that which was provided by the payment 
service provider. And that NatWest was instructed by Miss R to pay the funds to the 
payment service provider  which it did. 
She also didnt think NatWest ought to have been expected to prevent the card payments 
Miss R made. Our investigator didnt think the payments Miss R made were suspicious and, 
as a result didnt think NatWest had missed an opportunity to question her about them or to 
identify a potential scam. She noted the payments were made to a payment service provider 
shed made genuine payments to previously and, she didnt think the value of the payments 
would have been of concern to NatWest  given that Miss R had made payments of these 
values or more previously. Our investigator recognised Miss Rs strength of feeling about the 
service she received and, having considered everything shed been provided with, thought 
the £100 it had already paid was appropriate compensation in the circumstances.    
Miss R disagreed with our investigator. She raised unhappiness with the bank saying she 
should have done more checks and asked what more she should have done. Miss R also 
remained unhappy with the service she received from NatWest.  
Our investigator thought about Miss Rs further comments, but these didnt change her view. 
She explained she thought some confusion had been caused by NatWest when it asked 
what checks Miss R had done. She explained the ways in which we consider scam 
complaints and referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) and what 
wed consider under this. But she informed Miss R that the CRM Code doesnt apply as the 
payments she made were card payments  which cant be considered under the CRM Code.
She recognised that the banks questions around what checks shed made, for example, had 
caused her frustration but said that as the payments were made by debit card, shed thought 
about whether the payments looked unusual for the account and, if they did, should the bank 
have got in touch to talk about the payments. Our investigator reiterated that she didnt think 
the card payments looked remarkable enough for her to think the bank ought to have 
intervened. Her thoughts around the level of compensation already paid for the level of 
service also remained unchanged. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require NatWest to refund the 
money Miss R paid. I can appreciate this is not the outcome Miss R was hoping for, so I will 
explain why. 
Miss R does not dispute that she made the payments. In broad terms, the starting position at 
law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises using their payment tools, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations 
and the terms and conditions of the customers account. This means that Miss R is 
presumed responsible for the card payments in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss R when it processed the card payments totalling £2,933.63 or whether it should 
have done more than it did. 
Ive first thought about whether the initial payment Miss R made was out of character and 
unusual enough so that NatWest ought to have intervened, and, if it had done so, whether it 
would have made a difference to what happened.
There is a delicate balance to be struck. There are many millions of card payments made 
each day and it would not be possible or reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. 
Miss Rs bank statements in the months leading up to the disputed payments confirm that 
Miss R had made previous genuine payments to the account in her name with the payment 
service provider that she paid. While I note the previous payments that Ive seen on the 
statements were not to the same value of the first payment she made of £1,123.94, Im not 
persuaded the amount of the first payment ought to have stood out. The payment didnt clear 
Miss Rs account balance and Im also mindful that customers can make one-off payments 
from time to time and so on the face of it, I dont think there is anything usual about this 
payment. When taking this into account alongside the fact that Miss R had made genuine 
payments previously to the account she paid, I dont think the payment ought to have been 
treated as suspicious. I dont consider the payment Miss R made to be remarkable in and 
amongst her spending and against this backdrop, Im not persuaded that NatWest ought 
fairly and reasonably to have intervened to find out more about this payment. 
Ive also gone on to think about the payments Miss R then went on to make. But for the 
same reasons Ive explained above, I dont think they were unusual enough that they should have been stopped for further investigation. The further payments made were lower in 
amount to that of the first payment and while I note Miss R made seven payments in total, 
these were not made in quick succession but roughly over the course of two months. The 
payments also didnt use all of her available balance at the time they were made. It follows 
that I dont think the payments stand out enough for the bank to have been concerned that 
Miss R might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, I cant fairly or reasonably 
say that NatWest missed an opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. 
Our investigator thought NatWest, once Miss R notified it that shed been the victim of a 
scam, couldve considered the claim under the chargeback process. Ive also thought about 
the protections afforded to payments made by debit cards and whether NatWest could have 
helped Miss R to reverse the payment by way of a chargeback. There is no debate that the 
payment service provider provided the service. In this case, the alleged scammer was not a 
party to the card payments, so Miss R could not have a valid claim against the legitimate 
payment service provider she paid. Because of this, there is no realistic prospect of the 
funds being recovered from the payment service provider as Miss R had sent the money 
onto the scammer from the account she held in her name with it. And so, the funds had been 
withdrawn by the time she was in contact with NatWest. It follows that there was no 
reasonable prospect of success if NatWest had tried to challenge the debit card payments 
further on Miss Rs behalf using the card schemes rules. For completeness, I dont think the 
bank acted unfairly to Miss R by not raising a chargeback claim in these circumstances. 
Ive then gone on to consider what Miss R has told us about the customer service she 
received. NatWest has already paid £100 compensation in respect of this. I recognise 
Miss R is unhappy with the way she feels she was spoken to within her contact with NatWest 
and Im sorry to hear she feels this way. Given the £100 already paid, it appears to be 
accepted that the level of service provided could have been better. And while I recognise 
Miss Rs strength of feeling about the service she received, from the evidence Ive seen and 
heard, I think the £100 compensation NatWest has already paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking the bank to pay anything further. 
I am sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss R. There is no doubt that she has been the 
victim of a scam and that the scammer had no intention of providing the goods shed paid 
for. But I am only able to consider whether NatWest can fairly be held liable for her loss. 
After carefully considering everything, Im not persuaded there are any grounds on which 
NatWest can fairly and reasonably be held responsible for refunding the debit card payments 
Miss R authorised. I also make no further award in respect of the level of service Miss R 
received from NatWest, for the reasons Ive already explained.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman