DRN-4059815
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt provided 
sufficient information about transactions on two passbook accounts that she holds with them.
What happened
Ms M wanted more information about credits that had been paid into two passbook accounts 
that she holds with Halifax. Ms M says that she could not find out who the credits were from 
either when the passbook was updated in branch or through her online banking.
Halifax in response to this has explained that due to the passbook accounts are branch 
based it is unable to provide more details online or on the passbook itself when it is updated. 
Halifax said that Ms M can ask in branch for more details about specific transactions but this 
would not be shown on the passbook itself. Halifax further explained that Ms M may want to 
consider changing the accounts that she holds if this is not acceptable to her.
One of investigators looked into this matter. They said that Halifax had not actually made an 
error and that she was unable to ask Halifax to change its systems. Ms M was not happy 
with this and therefore her complaint has been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should firstly explain that our role is to sort out individual disputes between consumers and 
banks or other financial businesses where the consumer thinks they have lost out. But we 
dont regulate those businesses and we cant make them change their procedures. That is 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which deals with broader issues affecting 
large numbers of consumers. In this instance Halifax has explained that due to the type of 
accounts that Ms M there would be limited information available about the transactions that 
were made on these accounts either online or on the passbook itself. Halifax has further 
clarified that this is not an error it is a feature of these accounts.
As explained, I cant tell Halifax to change the features of its accounts and as the limited 
information about the transactions is not an error, I cant ask it to pay compensation either. If 
Ms M finds this feature of her accounts unacceptable to her, I can only suggest she changes 
accounts or account provider to one that provides her with the transaction detail that she 
requires.
It follows then that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman