DRN-3631955
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains that TSB Bank plc will not release the funds from Mrs Bs 
bank account following her death.
What happened
Mrs B held a joint TSB bank account with her husband. They divorced in 2018.
Mrs B passed away in 2021. Her estate asked TSB to release the funds that were held in 
the joint account. But TSB refused to release the funds to Mrs Bs estate because the 
account remained in joint names.
Mrs Bs estate complains that TSB isnt acting fairly or reasonably. It said all of the money 
going into and out of the account was for Mrs B  not her ex-husband. It also said that TSB 
hadnt cancelled direct debit from the account after it was notified of Mrs Bs death.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint. My provisional findings, which form 
part of this decision, were:
I accept that TSB is in a difficult position where an account is held in joint names, only used 
by one party and then the party that uses the account dies. It is reasonable for it to be 
concerned that if it released the money in the account the joint borrower could later ask for 
those funds.
The terms and conditions provided by TSB say:
What happens if a joint account holder dies?
Well remove their name from the account and it will stay open in the name of the remaining 
joint customer(s). If the account was in debt (such as an overdraft), the remaining joint 
customer(s) would be responsible for paying the full debt.
Occasionally, we wont remove the name of the person who died from the account and we 
wont act solely on the instructions of the remaining joint customer(s). We may do this if its 
clear to us that the person who died didnt intend for this to happen when the joint account 
was set up.
It's not clear if Mrs B agreed to the above when she opened the account. And Im not sure 
it covers this scenario, where only one party used the account and it is not clear how to 
contact the other party. In those circumstances, it does not seem entirely fair for TSB to 
retain the money in the account to the detriment of the estate.
TSBs procedures require permission from the joint account holder before it will release any 
funds. But again, they do not cover this scenario.
Mrs Bs estate has put forward a number of cases that it considers supports its position. I 
gave TSB the chance to comment on that but it has not done so. I must take those cases 
into account, in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.
There does not appear to be any dispute that all of the funds in the account belonged to 
Mrs B  and that all of the expenditure related to her too. It is difficult to see how it would 
be fair for Mrs Bs ex-husband to receive the funds in the account when they had nothing 
to do with him  other than the account being in joint names in relation to marriage which 
had ended three years before Mrs Bs death.
TSB has told us that Mrs Bs ex-husband has not been in touch since the account was 
blocked in 2021. And I cant see that TSB has provided any evidence to show that Mrs 
Bs ex-husband has contacted it in relation to the account.
In the individual circumstances of this complaint, I consider it would be fair and reasonable 
for TSB to pay Mrs Bs estate the balance as it was on the date it was notified of the death, 
with interest at 8% simple from that date until date of settlement, to reflect that the estate 
has been deprived of those funds. I say that as even if Mrs Bs ex-partner approached TSB 
I think it would be difficult for him to make a legitimate claim bearing financial 
settlement in the divorce and that the funds all belonged to Mrs B.
I proposed that TSB should 
Pay Mrs Bs estate the balance of the joint account on the date it was informed of her
death. 
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above amount from the date it was notified of 
Mrs Bs death until date of settlement.
Both sides accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides accepted my provisional decision, I have nothing further to add to my 
provisional findings set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc should (if it has not done so already):
Pay Mrs Bs estate the balance of the joint account on the date it was informed of Mrs 
Bs death. 
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the above amount from the date it was notified of 
Mrs Bs death until date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman