DRN-4258325
The complaint
Ms I complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Ms I found an investment opportunity in early 2020. She says the website looked 
professional, and it had good reviews, so she decided to proceed. Unfortunately, it was a 
scam.
Ms I made payments to the investment from her Santander account. The payments didnt 
go straight to the scammers. They mostly went via her cryptocurrency wallet. As part of the 
scam, she was persuaded to allow the scammers remote access to help with the set-up of 
this wallet. But she had access to, and was using, that wallet. 
Additionally, a few payments were made to another bank account Ms I held (with B) before 
being immediately transferred on to her cryptocurrency wallet. And from there the funds 
were paid out to the scammers, who Ms I believed were providing her with genuine 
investment services.
In early 2022, Ms I complained to Santander (via a professional representative) that it had 
failed to prevent the scam. When it didnt refund her, she referred her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt think the payments initially looked suspicious. But he thought that, 
when Ms I made a payment of £17,000 in June 2021, Santander ought to have intervened 
and uncovered the scam. He recommended that Santander refund half of the payments from 
that point onwards, as he thought Ms I also shared some liability for the scam by that point.
Santander got in touch to clarify which payments we were considering. Our investigator set 
these out. He also explained we had considered a separate complaint about B, but had 
made no award on that case. So there was no risk of double recovery. 
Ms I disagreed with the investigators recommendation. She argued Santander should have 
intervened sooner, so it should refund her from an earlier point. And she disagreed that a 
deduction should be made for her liability. 
Ive listed the payments Im considering within this complaint below. Please note there have 
been some discrepancies between the parties (Ms I and her professional representative, and 
Santander) about what is in dispute. Ive looked at what Santander identified from Ms Is 
statements, and her complaint, to establish what is relevant to the scam: 
What 
Ive 
decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Santander is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is not in dispute that Ms I was 
scammed. But nor is it in dispute that she authorised the payments. So the starting position 
is that she is liable for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If 
Santander failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it 
liable.
I agree with our investigator that, prior to June 2021, Santander didnt have an obligation to 
intervene with these payments. I consider it reasonable that its systems didnt identify the 
payments as appearing indicative of fraud. Date Amount Payment type Payee Notes
18/08/2020 £2,542 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
20/09/2020 £1,100 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
20/09/2020 2x£250* Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet *credited back
09/10/2020 £1,000 Faster payment Ms I's account with B
09/10/2020 £100 Faster payment Ms I's account with B
09/10/2020 £3,000 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
27/04/2021 £4,300 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
28/05/2021 £5,000 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
28/05/2021 £87* Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet *credited back
28/05/2021 £700 Faster payment Ms I's account with B
17/06/2021 £17,000 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
30/06/2021 £10,000 Faster payment Ms I's crypto wallet
30/06/2021 £10,000 Faster payment Ms I's account with B
Total loss £54,742I appreciate Ms Is point that some of these payments were quite high in value. But when 
viewed amongst her account activity, they do not appear so unusual that I would have 
expected Santander to have been suspicious. The payments to the cryptocurrency wallet 
were spread out and occurred over a period of months. As time went on, it appeared to be 
an expected payee, making the payments appear less risky. Prior to June 2021, there 
doesnt appear to be a significant escalation.
However, the payment of £17,000 was out of line with Ms Is usual account activity and her 
usual payments to her wallet. I think that ought to have concerned Santander, and that it 
should therefore have spoken to Ms I about the circumstances of the payment to establish 
whether she might be at risk from fraud. 
There is an indication in Santanders notes that it declined this payment initially and spoke to 
Ms I, but it cannot find the call and its notes do not capture what was asked or discussed. In 
the absence of this, I have to consider what is more likely to have happened.
If Santander had questioned Ms I appropriately, I think it likely would have uncovered the 
scam at this point. I have seen no suggestion that Ms I was coached on what to say if 
questioned about the payments. As she thought the investment was legitimate, it seems 
likely to me she would have explained what she was doing. And I think, with appropriate 
questioning, Ms I would have revealed details that ought to have concerned Santander.
For example: Ms I allowed the merchant to use remote access software to set up her 
cryptocurrency wallet and to make her first payment (funded from a separate account). At 
their instruction, she initially shared her password for the wallet with them. I would have 
expected Santander to have realised, and warned Ms I, that is a common feature of this type 
of scam.
I think Ms I would have heeded this warning, particularly as there are indications she had 
some concerns herself (as Ill address further below). In light of the concerns, Santander 
could have directed her on how to look into the company she was trading with, such as by 
checking the regulators website to see whether it was properly regulated  or whether it had 
been identified as a potential scam.
The company Ms I initially dealt with had in fact been identified by the regulator as operating 
without the required authorisation, and it had put out a warning about this. And so Im 
persuaded that appropriate intervention regarding the £17,000 payment would have 
uncovered the scam  and therefore have prevented her loss from this point.
I am conscious that, as Santander has flagged, on of the payments made after this date 
went via Ms Is bank account with B rather than the cryptocurrency wallet. But as our 
investigator has explained, we have considered a complaint about B and the ombudsman 
made no award on that complaint, meaning Ms I isnt getting a double refund for this 
payment. I have also seen that the money was very quickly transferred from the recipient 
account to the wallet, to fund the scam payments.
Ultimately, If Santander had intervened with the £17,000 as it should have done, I am 
persuaded that Ms I would not have made these further payments and so would not have 
incurred these losses. I therefore consider it fair to expect Santander to refund her for them.
However, I have also considered whether its fair to hold Ms I partly liable for her loss by way 
of contributory negligence. And I agree with our investigator that it is appropriate to make a 
50% deduction for this.That is because there are indications Ms I had concerns about the company. She told 
Santander she had initially allowed remote access and shared the password for her 
cryptocurrency wallet  but then changed this as she didnt think that seemed right. She also 
told our investigator she had concerns that they kept on telling her to reinvest her funds 
rather than allowing her a withdrawal. And the regulators warning appeared readily when 
searching for the named company online prior to these payments. 
The payments I think Santander ought to have prevented occurred towards the end of the 
scam. By this point, Ms I had paid in a lot of money (including from other accounts) without 
being able to withdraw anything  and was continuing to pay large amounts. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied its fair to expect both parties to share liability for the loss. 
I have also considered if Santander could have done more to recover Ms Is loss after she 
reported the scam. But as the payments went via Ms Is own accounts before being 
transferred on to the scammers, it couldnt recover them nor does it otherwise have a duty to 
refund her. The loss happened after the funds were transferred on from the recipients paid. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Santander UK Plc should refund Ms I £18,500  which is half 
of the money paid to the scam from her Santander account from 17 June 2021. 
Santander UK Plc should pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the dates of 
payment to the date of settlement. If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms I how much its taken off. 
It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to put things right 
in line with my instructions above. It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
we tell it Ms I accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman