DRN-3058926
The complaint
Ms H has complained about her former motor insurer EUI Limited because it auto-renewed 
her policy, and whilst she cancelled both it and her direct debit, EUI later marked her credit 
file with a default.
What happened
Ms H arranged cover in 2019. She noted the policy was set to auto-renew. Ms H says she 
called EUI to tell it to remove her from this system but it refused to do so. Ms H says EUI told 
her to ring back nearer the renewal date, which Ms H says she did.
Ms Hs policy renewed on 25 June 2020. Around this time Ms H cancelled her direct debit. 
On 27 June EUI was notified that the direct debit had been cancelled and wrote to Ms H. It 
said the full years premium was now due, but she should contact it if she wanted to cancel. 
Ms H returned the letter to EUI, marking it with a request to cancel, in fact stating she 
thought she had already done this by phone. 
On 7 July EUI sent a further letter to Ms H. This told her the whole premium was now due 
and if she didnt pay her policy would be cancelled. The letter also advised it was a default 
notice under the Consumer Credit Act because she had broken her agreement to pay 
monthly by direct debit. 
On 8 July, the fourteenth days since the policy renewed, EUI received the annotated letter 
Ms H had returned to it. And on 13 July Ms H emailed EUI. An EUI representative noted the 
email but didnt complete an action to cancel the policy. However EUI didnt ask Ms H for 
money or attempt to correspond with her again. At some point in 2020 though, it did update 
her credit file with a default.
Towards the end of 2020 Ms H was looking to buy a property to let. She had obtained a 
decision in principal from a lender. She then paid certain fees totalling £660 and the lender 
completed further checks. Unfortunately, having done so, the lender said it wasnt prepared 
to offer the loan. Ms Hs broker discussed her credit record with her and noted the default 
from EUI  the broker said the lender Ms H had approached has a strict policy not to offer 
loans where there is a recent default on an applicants credit history.
Ms H contacted EUI and asked it why it had marked her file, given she had asked it not to 
auto-renew her policy and, when it had anyway, she had cancelled the cover. EUI said it 
should have cancelled the cover when the request was received in July 2020. It backdated 
the cancellation and offered £50 compensation. But it explained that the default had 
occurred before the cancellation request had been received. So EUI said the credit marker 
was a true reflection of Ms Hs credit activity. 
Ms H complained to us, she said not only had EUIs action cost her money in respect of the 
loan application fees, but also it had prevented her from buying the property and letting it 
out, so she had lost income. She didnt feel it was fair for the credit marker to remain. During 
our investigation EUI then agreed to, and did, remove the credit marker.
Our investigator felt she couldnt go so far as to reasonably say EUI had caused Ms H to 
lose income. But she did think EUI could reasonably have chosen to remove the credit 
marker earlier. So she said it should pay Ms H £500 compensation.
EUI didnt respond to our investigators findings. Ms H said £500 wasnt anywhere near 
enough to make up for what she believed shed lost because of EUIs unfair and 
unreasonable actions. The complaint was passed to me to decide and I felt EUI should 
reimburse the loan application fee, as well as paying Ms H £1,000 compensation. So 
I issued a provisional decision, my findings from which were:
Having done so, I think EUI was wrong to consider Ms H was in default. Quite simply, and 
regardless of Ms Hs arguments about having contacted EUI before the policy renewed, 
Ms H was entitled under the renewed policy to a 14-day cooling off period. Within which time 
she was free to decide not to continue with cover, for no penalty or premium charge. On the 
last day of that 14-day period, 8 July 2020, EUI received notice of cancellation from Ms H. 
So with the policy being cancelled within the cooling off period and no premium being 
payable, Ms H couldnt reasonably be seen as being in default for not paying. In short shed 
acted within the policy terms to cancel the agreement with EUI and, as a result, neither of 
them had any obligation to each other under the policy. 
EUI should have acted on that cancellation in July 2020, and in doing so it should have 
noted the date of notification and made sure to remove the default status for Ms H on its 
internal records. If it had done so, then it wouldnt have gone on later in the year to update 
her external credit file. 
Having determined that is what EUI should have done, I need to think about what would 
most likely have happened for Ms H if it had. In doing that Ill then be able to award redress 
to, as far as reasonably possible, put her back into the position shed most likely have been 
in but for EUIs error. 
I know Ms H believes, fervently, that if EUI hadnt done this shed have completed a 
purchase on a property in late 2020 and have been receiving income from letting it out 
shortly thereafter. Im not persuaded I can say that is most likely what would have happened. 
It is clearly what Ms H had intended to happen. But even if I assume that her loan application 
would have succeeded but for the default marker, there are many other things that may well 
have prevented or forestalled that happening. Its possible the purchase and business plan 
would have progressed as Ms H intended, but Im not persuaded I can reasonably say that is 
most likely what would have happened. 
I cant even be sure that the default marker was the only bar to the lender offering the loan. 
The criteria used by lenders is complex it will usually take into account factors to do with the 
individual, the property and, where a buy-to-let mortgage is concerned, the expected rental 
income. The lending criteria isnt all focussed on the credit file. That said it is definitely the 
case that EUI put Ms H in a position where she had an incorrect and recent default marker 
on her credit file. And she was looking to borrow a large amount of money, presumably over 
a prolonged period. And I think it's fair to say that many lenders in the general market place 
wouldnt be prepared to offer a loan in those circumstances, even if all of their other criteria 
were met. So, even without direct evidence from Ms Hs prospective lender about why it 
refused her loan application, Im prepared to give Ms H the benefit of the doubt and conclude 
that, but for the default marker, her application in November 2020 would most likely have 
been able to progress with the fees shed paid not, effectively, being wasted. Or at least not 
wasted due to failure to meet the lenders credit scoring criteria.
That means I am prepared to require EUI to reimburse Ms Hs total outlay for the loan 
application which, because of its error, was always fated to fail. It will have to pay that, plus interest from the date Ms H paid the sums that make up her total outlay of £660 until 
settlement is made. 
Im also minded to think that EUIs error caused Ms H substantial distress and 
inconvenience. Thats because it clearly affected her long-term plans to invest in a property. 
I accept what Ms H says that her broker said any further application for credit would be 
pointless with the default on her record. And whilst the record has since been amended  
Ms H clearly experienced a lot of worry and concern when she found out about the marker 
and she had to change her plans, in the short term at least. Of particular note to me is that 
Ms H has said shed made and was attempting to put these plans in place to try to better and 
secure her financial income, which had been affected by the pandemic. I accept that having 
those plans forestalled, even for a short while, was extremely distressing for her. I think 
£1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.  
Developments
EUI said it had been wrong previously  that it had actually cancelled Ms Hs policy in July, it 
just hadnt backdated the cancellation to the renewal point. It said it had sent a cancellation 
letter at that time advising the outstanding premium was due, and if it had cancelled it to the 
renewal Ms H would still have owed it a cancellation fee. EUI said that as Ms H never paid 
the outstanding premium or responded to its ample debt collection activity which it had 
launched in August 2020, it doesnt think shed likely have paid it the cancellation fee, even if 
that had been all it had charged. So EUI believes Ms H would still have ended up in default. 
EUI also said if Ms H had responded to its debt collection activity the matter could have been 
cleared up sooner  so the fact it wasnt was really Ms Hs fault. Finally EUI said it felt the 
compensation Id suggested was too high, that the sum put forward by our investigator was 
reasonable and it would agree to pay that.
Ms H said she was pleased with my decision as far as it went. But that she felt more 
compensation was reasonably due and that her lost income should be given further 
consideration. She explained how shed moved and changed her whole life based on the 
purchase of this holiday let and her mortgage broker had confirmed it was EUIs fault the 
purchase had fallen through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what EUI has said. But Im not particularly persuaded by it. Not least because its own 
complaint investigation, as reflected in all of its correspondence with Ms H, including its 
formal final response letter, found that in July 2020 it had not cancelled her policy. But EUI 
would now have me accept that it did do that but its complaint investigation was flawed and 
missed a crucial and key cancellation letter that was on its system and which (EUI says) was 
sent to Ms H on 28 July 2020. That said, even if I accept that this letter was sent to Ms H  
I note it says the outstanding premium will be collected from the relevant payment details. 
However, EUI knew Ms H had no existing payment details logged with it as her direct debit 
had been cancelled. So, if EUI did send this letter, intending to take (an incorrect) premium 
amount from Ms Hs bank  that was fated to fail, equating to another error of EUIs. Another 
error which inevitably put this matter on to a debt collection path because, according to EUI, 
it made no other attempts to contact Ms H regarding this issue before involving its debt 
collection team.
I think its also rather unfair of EUI to try and blame Ms H for the position its own errors put 
her in. If EUI had handled things properly in July 2020 it would have made direct contact with Ms H to acknowledge her cancellation from renewal and to ask her to pay the £25 
cancellation fee (because it knew there was no payment arrangement in place). I dont think 
for one second that if EUI had done things correctly, Ms H would have knowingly 
jeopardised her future financial plans for the sake of such a small sum. 
That said, beyond the charge for the loan, which I still think EUI fairly must reimburse, Im 
still not minded to make EUI recompense Ms H for the income she believes shes lost.  
I understand how strongly Ms H feels about this, and that she had taken many important 
actions based on her plans for the holiday let  including sacrificing another income stream 
to make the flats purchase possible. But I cant be certain, even only on balance, that the 
purchase of the holiday let and the business plan Ms H had in place would all have come to 
fruition but for EUIs error. They may have done but equally they may not have. Buying a 
property and starting a new business are complex activities often fraught with difficulties, 
even if lending is secured. I cant be certain enough that this stumbling block, which EUIs 
errors created for Ms H, at the mortgage point of the buying process, was the only thing that 
would ever likely have happened to prevent Ms H succeeding. So I cant reasonably find that 
EUI is responsible, even in part, for the income Ms H believes shes lost. 
I am satisfied though that, but for EUIs failures, Ms Hs plans wouldnt have been thwarted 
at the time and as they were  and I accept that the fact that they were was very distressing. 
I also accept that the debt marker continued to impact Ms Hs plans in the longer term as 
she couldnt reasonably apply further for credit until that was resolved. Whilst I note Ms Hs 
and EUIs objections to my provisional compensation award (in turn; that its insufficient and 
too much), Im not minded to change my view on this. In the circumstances here Im satisfied 
that fair and reasonable compensation is £1,000.
I note that EUI has now mentioned that it would/should have charged Ms H a cancellation 
fee when it received her notice of cancellation in July 2020. From what EUI has said Im not 
sure if it is suggesting it would like to charge this to Ms H now. My view though is that if that 
was its intent, its too late for that. EUI knew when it issued its final response letter that it was 
cancelling the policy back to the renewal date and it didnt, at that time, say it was doing that 
subject to a cancellation fee being paid. So EUI cant reasonably change its mind now and 
charge this to Ms H, or deduct it from my award.
I also note that Ms H says EUI shouldnt seek to take any tax from her as Ive mentioned it 
may in my putting things right section. She says shes self-employed and the awards Ive 
made are compensation, so tax doesnt apply. I note Ms Hs concern, but I am not a tax 
expert. So if EUI deducts tax that Ms H thinks it shouldnt have, then she can seek to claim it 
back from HMRC, and HMRC will consider that.
Putting things right
I require EUI to pay Ms H:
£660 as reimbursement of her total cost for her loan application, plus interest on each 
sum that makes up this figure from the date each was paid until settlement in made.
£1,000 as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If EUI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Ms H, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require EUI Limited to provide the redress set out above at putting 
things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman