DRN-4319250
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, was unable to find his 
credit card account when he tried to make a payment, and that this resulted in his account 
being defaulted.
What happened
Mr D had a credit card account with Barclaycard. He fell into financial difficulties, and on 21 
February 2022 he phoned Barclaycard to say that his minimum payment for that month 
would be late. Barclaycards call handler gave him a 14 day grace period. But 13 days later, 
on 6 March, Barclaycard sent his account to collections. Barclaycard has accepted that this 
was an error, and it has refunded the interest and fees which Mr D had been charged as a 
result.
On 28 March, Mr D phoned Barclaycard again to make a payment. But because his account 
was in collections, and neither Mr D nor the call handler knew that, the call handler was 
unable to find his account and take the payment. The call handler gave Mr D the phone 
number for the Financial Assistance Team, but was otherwise unable to help him. 
Barclaycard accepted that this should not have happened, and it has since offered Mr D 
£175 as compensation for that error.
Mr D complained about these matters, and in June Barclaycard wrote to him to offer him the 
refunds and some of the compensation I have described above. It was in this letter that it 
first told him that his account was in collections, although in the meantime it had been 
sending him arrears letters. Mr D says that because of what had happened on 28 March, he 
had lost confidence in Barclaycard, and for that reason he had not made a payment to his 
account in the usual way; instead, in April and May he had sent Barclaycard two cheques. 
But Barclaycard said it had never received a cheque from Mr D. In July Barclaycard 
defaulted his account.
Mr D complained about that, first to Barclaycard and then to our service. In August, 
Barclaycard increased its offer of compensation to £175, for the errors it had previously 
accepted making, but it did not agree that it had been wrong to default the account. It told 
our investigator that it had written to Mr D several times to tell him he was in arrears and how 
to pay them.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that £175 was fair compensation 
for the errors the bank had admitted to. She said that the bank had given Mr D enough 
opportunities to pay his arrears before defaulting him. But Mr D had never phoned the 
Financial Assistance Team, he did not appear to have sent a cheque, and also cheques had 
not been one of the various methods which Barclaycards letters had listed as ways he could 
use to pay. The bank had given him proper notice of its intention to default the account, and 
of how he could avoid that, but he had still not paid. So she concluded that the default had 
been applied correctly.
Mr D did not accept that opinion. He said the cheques were a vital part of his defence, as if 
Barclaycard had accepted them then these payments would have prevented the default. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Since Mr D says the cheques are very important, I will deal with those first. Assuming that 
the cheques were indeed sent, the first one was sent in mid-April, when the payment due 
was £81.99. After that, Barclaycard sent him a letter on 3 May saying that he had missed his 
last three payments, and the payment due was now £120.40. So that put him on notice that 
the cheque had not been received, or (if received) had not been paid, and that he still had to 
make a payment. The letter went on to say that if he kept missing payments, the bank would 
send him a default notice, and would subsequently go on to default his account.
That letter also set out, under the heading Ways to make a payment, a number of payment 
methods which Barclaycard would accept. These were: by telephone banking, by a mobile 
phone banking app, by debit card (over the phone), by setting up a direct debit or standing 
order, or by making a payment in a local Barclays branch. Cheques were not mentioned, but 
there were five alternatives, including methods which would not require speaking to 
someone on the phone.
On 2 June Barclaycard sent Mr D a default notice, saying that he had to pay £160.51 by 3 
July or else his account would be defaulted. So that letter informed Mr D that the cheque he 
had sent in May had not been received or not been paid, and that he still needed to make a 
payment.
On 13 June, in response to Mr Ds complaint, Barclaycard sent him a letter telling him 
(among other things) that his account was in collections. This letter included a phone 
number on which he could call the collections department and make a payment.
All of these letters were correctly addressed.
No payment was received, and so the account was defaulted in July, after the notice period 
in the default notice had expired. Therefore Im satisfied that the default was properly 
applied, and that the errors made in March did not cause this to happen.
Im also satisfied that £175 and an apology are fair compensation for what went wrong in 
March 2022.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman