DRN-4301479
The complaint
Mr O and Ms M complain about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a 
curtailment claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the actions of its claims handler.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr O and Ms M took out an annual travel insurance policy in February 2022. In September 
2022, they were abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, they learned that a close relative was 
receiving palliative care and sadly, a short time later, they were told that their relative had 
passed away. They cut short their holiday and returned to the UK. In October 2022, they 
sent Great Lakes a curtailment claim form, along with accompanying evidence.
It took around six weeks for Great Lakes to acknowledge Mr O and Ms Ms claim. It later let 
Mr O and Ms M know that it didnt think the medical certificate - which had been completed 
by their relatives GP - was sufficient or provided the information it needed to allow it to 
assess the claim. So it asked Mr O and Ms M to ask the GP to complete the certificate with 
specific reference to Mr O and Ms Ms relatives medical history. Mr O and Ms M explained 
that the GP had completed the form in line with the GPs interpretation of the medical 
questions and asked Great Lakes if it could provide them with either targeted questions for 
the GP, or if it could write to the GP directly.
In January 2023, Mr O and Ms M complained about the way Great Lakes had handled their 
claim. Great Lakes issued a final response to the complaint in March 2023, explaining that 
the complaint had been upheld and acknowledged that Mr O and Ms M had experienced 
unacceptable delays.
Regardless, Great Lakes let Mr O and Ms M know that it couldnt proceed with the claim until 
it had the relevant information from the GP. In May 2023, Great Lakes wrote to the GP 
directly to ask for the information it needed. The GP responded in mid-June 2023 and the 
claim was authorised and partly settled at that point.
Mr O and Ms M had remained unhappy with Great Lakes handling of their claim and so they 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Briefly, she felt it had been Mr 
O and Ms Ms responsibility to provide enough evidence to show they had a valid claim. And 
she considered that Great Lakes had clearly and consistently told Mr O and Ms M what 
information it needed.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think Great Lakes had handled Mr O and Ms Ms claim fairly. I said:
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr O and Ms M for the sad loss of their 
relative. I dont doubt what an upsetting and difficult time this has been for them. Its also 
important that I make it clear that this decision will only consider Great Lakes overall 
handling of the claim. I understand Mr O and Ms M are unhappy with the settlement theyve 
ultimately been paid. Before we can potentially look into that issue though, Great Lakes must 
be given an opportunity to consider that particular complaint and issue a final response. Mr 
O and Ms M can let our investigator know if theyd like her to contact Great Lakes to help 
set-up a new complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly; that 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably and that they must provide reasonable 
guidance to help policyholders to make a claim. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the relevant rules, the policy terms and the circumstances of Mr O and Ms Ms claim to 
decide whether I think Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Its common ground that Mr O and Ms M had to cut their trip short due to the sudden illness 
and passing of their close relative. Curtailment due to the death of a close relative is 
something which is covered by the policy terms. However, in line with most (if not all) travel 
insurance policies, Great Lakes wont cover claims for the illness or death of close relatives 
in certain circumstances  i.e. where a terminal prognosis had been given at the time of 
policy purchase.
As the investigator explained, its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder 
to show that they have a valid claim on their policy. So I agree that it was Mr O and Ms Ms 
responsibility to provide Great Lakes with the information it needed to assess whether or not 
the claim was valid. Having looked at the information given on the medical certificate which 
was initially completed by the GP, I can understand why Great Lakes felt it needed more 
details about Mr O and Ms Ms relatives medical history before it could accept the claim. I 
dont think there was enough medical information to ascertain whether Mr O and Ms Ms 
relative had been given a terminal prognosis before the policy was taken out, for example.
However, Ive looked at the correspondence between Great Lakes and Mr O. Its clear that 
Mr O asked Great Lakes claims handlers for guidance on what information the GP needed 
to give on several occasions. He was clearly engaged with the claims process and it seems 
to me that he wanted to resolve things as quickly as he could. While the claims handlers did 
provide responses and some indication of what medical information might be needed; I think 
it ought to have been clear to them that Mr O was unsure of what the GP needed to include 
on the form. Hed asked for targeted questions Great Lakes wanted to be answered which 
he could pass on to the GP. And he questioned whether Great Lakes could contact the GP 
directly. So I think Great Lakes could have provided clearer guidance to Mr O to help him 
gather the medical evidence he needed to show the claim was covered. And in this particular 
case, given Great Lakes did ultimately write to the GP for information, it isnt clear to me why 
it couldnt have done so sooner or why it couldnt have passed on a list of targeted questions 
to Mr O.
Once the GPs new information was received, Great Lakes accepted the claim. In my view, 
had it provided Mr O with clearer and more detailed guidance to help him make out his 
claim, it could have been accepted and settled some months earlier than it was. And I think 
Mr O would likely have been put to significantly less time and inconvenience in 
corresponding with Great Lakes over a period of months.
It's clear too that Great Lakes accepted, in its final response, that it had caused avoidable 
delays in its handling of the claim and that it hadnt met its own customer service standards. I 
note that Great Lakes didnt offer any compensation for the impact its service failings had 
had on Mr O and Ms M. This final response was sent around three months before the claim was accepted  and Mr O and Ms M went on to experience further delays and frustration.
So, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I currently find that Great Lakes has 
caused unreasonable delays in dealing with this claim and hasnt met its obligation to handle 
it fairly. It appears Great Lakes accepts this point. Nor do I think it provided enough 
reasonable guidance for Mr O and Ms M to make their claim. As such then, I think Great 
Lakes has caused Mr O and Ms M unnecessary trouble, upset and inconvenience at an 
already difficult and distressing time. Therefore, I currently think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mr O and Ms M compensation to reflect the impact I think 
the additional delays had on them. In my view, an award of £200 is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to compensate Mr O and Ms M for the distress and inconvenience I think 
Great Lakes caused them.
Both Mr O and Ms M and Great Lakes let me know that they accepted my provisional 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as both parties have accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
change them.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr O and Ms M £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman