DRN-3099203
The complaint
Ms S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with
Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex).
Ms S has at times been represented by her husband, but for ease, and as Ms S is named on
the finance agreement I will refer only to her in this decision.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ms S took receipt of a new car on 25 September 2020. She financed the deal through a hire
agreement with Lex.
In January 2021 Ms S says she began to experience problems with the infotainment system,
so she contacted Mercedes Me on line to request help and they sent a recovery agent on
several occasions (Ms S says about ten) to remedy the situation.
Ms S explains that as the infotainment system covers many features of the car including the
speed and safety information, it was undriveable at those times. On most occasions the
recovery agent was able to resolve matters but on 19 March 2021 after a further failure the
car was taken to a dealership.
The dealership identified the need for a new control until which was ordered but there was a
further delay before the car was returned to service. Ms S says she was without the car for
about four weeks and during that time she was provided with unsuitable courtesy cars that
werent fully electric and required her to outlay for fuel.
On 24 March 2020 Ms S asked Lex to allow her to reject the car. She said the Consumer
Rights Act only allowed the business one opportunity to repair the vehicle and Lex had
many.
Lex didnt support Ms Ss request. They said the dealer had only had one opportunity to
repair the car and had done so. They did refund one monthly finance instalment in respect of
the loss of enjoyment and impaired use that Ms S had experienced. Ms S was disappointed 
with Lexs findings and she referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt support rejection of the car. She thought Lexs offer to refund one
monthly finance instalment was fair and was more than enough to cover the amount Ms S
would have spent on fuel.
Ms S didnt agree. She said the recovery agent had completed repairs: the car wasnt
working when he arrived and was when he left. And the repairs hadnt been enduring. She
was still of the belief that the car should be rejected, and she asked for a final decision by an
ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Lex, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion. Please
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms S. This was a brand-new,
high specification car and I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any
faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Lex were responsible for its quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. I dont think Lex have tried to dispute that and
theres no evidence to the contrary, so I accept the fault with the control unit was likely to
have been developing at the point the car was supplied.
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present
at the point of supply. After that they should allow rejection of the car. The question here is
whether a repair had taken place before the car was taken to the dealership on 19 March
2021.
I think its likely it had, and that Lex have therefore been unreasonable when refusing to
allow Ms S to reject the car in March 2021. I say that because: 
Ms S contacted Mercedes Me to report a fault. That website explains that consumers 
should contact us directly with any technical problems relating to your vehicle  we 
will assist you as quickly as possible. So, I think Mercedes Me was the natural first 
stop for Ms S to report a problem. It wasnt for her to decide if the car needed to be 
taken to a dealership; it was the recovery agent who would decide that.
The cars infotainment system was clearly not working when the agent arrived, and it
was when he left. I think that constitutes a repair. Even if he had only reset the
system (which according to Ms S was not always the case) that reset was not
something available to Ms S. It was an intervention that was meant to resolve the
issue for the consumer: a repair.Had the agent attended once, reset the system and subsequently decided to have
the car looked at by the dealership where equipment was more readily available,
then I may have been prepared to consider this purely a preparatory step. But as
visits were clearly frequent and the fault persisted for many weeks, I dont think it
would be fair to consider the agents regular interventions were not repair attempts.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation says that a repair should be
completed in a reasonable time frame and I dont think that can be said to be the case here.
Ms S first had issues in January 2021 and the fault wasnt satisfactorily repaired until April
2021, about three months later.
So, I think Lex should have allowed Ms S to reject the car on 24 March 2021 when she
called them to request that and Ive therefore considered what Lex need to do to put things
right.
Lex should now collect the car from Ms S and end the finance agreement.
The first payment of just over £813 was due a month after the agreement started and there
were to be a further 35 instalments of the same amount. So, there doesnt appear to have
been an advance payment on this hire agreement and Im therefore not asking Lex to refund
any portion of that.
The relevant legislation allows Lex to retain all or some of the finance instalments paid to
compensate them for the use the consumer has had from the car. Ms S has confirmed that
the car has been working satisfactorily since it was returned to her in April 2021. So, I think
its fair for Lex to keep any finance instalments paid since then. Lex have refunded the
March payment already as Ms S didnt have use of the car that month.
Between January 2021 and March 2021 Ms S has explained she had to call out the recovery
agent on several occasions. Im therefore asking Lex to refund 20% of the instalments Ms S
paid in January and February 2021 in respect of lack of use as I think its clear the use of the
car was impacted during this period.
Ms S has also been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to call out recovery agents
on several occasions and has had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it
could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Lex should provide some
compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced. But a courtesy car was
provided for Ms S in March when Lex also refunded the whole monthly charge. So, Ms S
was provided with a car free of charge in that month and only had to pay for fuel. On balance
I think that is sufficient to offset any compensation I would award under our published
guidance and Im not expecting to ask Lex to pay any more.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Lex
Autolease Ltd to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms S;
refund the March 2021 instalment if they havent already done so;
refund 20% of the instalments Ms S paid in January and February 2021 and add 8%
simple interest to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement as
Ms S has been deprived of that money;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ss credit file in relation to
this issue. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further comments. But Lex didnt 
agree with my provisional decision, they said they hadnt been given the opportunity to repair 
the car until the successful repair in April 2021. They said the relevant legislation allowed 
them that opportunity and that it hadnt taken too long to repair the car as they were first 
aware of the problem in March and completed repairs in April.
Ive thought about what Lex have said but Ive not been persuaded to change my opinion. 
Lexs interpretation of the relevant legislation is correct and in line with what I set out in my 
provisional decision. In that provisional decision I explained that the question to be asked 
was whether a repair had taken place before the dealership saw the car. I think my 
reasoning thereafter explains why I believe a repair had been completed and why Lex 
should therefore now allow the car to be rejected.
Ive considered whether the dealership would have been likely to have taken a different 
course of action had Mercedes Me referred the car to them initially, but I dont think that was 
likely to have been the case. I think its reasonable to suggest that Mercedes Me were the 
experts on this model of car and that when the dealership repaired it in April 2021 they would 
have been able to benefit from the earlier, unsuccessful, repair attempts. They would not 
have needed to have followed the earlier repair steps in order to resolve the matter; a matter 
that had now presumably been referred to them by Mercedes Me.
So, Im also persuaded that this repair did in effect take from January 2021 to April 2021 and 
as Ive already explained, I dont think that was a reasonable period of time. Its another 
reason why Lex should allow Ms S to reject the vehicle.  
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with additional information that has persuaded me to change my 
provisional decision. That provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and to tell Lex Autolease Ltd to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms S;
refund the March 2021 instalment if they havent already done so;
refund 20% of the instalments Ms S paid in January and February 2021 and add 8%
simple interest to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement as
Ms S has been deprived of that money;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Ss credit file in relation to
this issue.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman