DRN-4324136
The complaint
Miss B complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has stopped 
paying benefit for an incapacity claim she made on a group income protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss B is insured under her employers group income protection insurance policy. In 2019, 
Miss B was signed-off from work, suffering from both physical and mental health conditions. 
Her employer made an incapacity claim on her behalf, which L&G accepted in 2020. Monthly 
benefit was paid to Miss B.
In line with the policy terms, L&G kept Miss Bs claim under periodic review. It requested 
additional evidence so it could consider whether Miss B continued to meet the policy 
definition of incapacity. It received evidence from Miss Bs GP, which suggested that shed 
been able to stop taking some of her pain medications. On that basis, L&G appointed a third-
party company to carry out a chronic pain abilities determination (CPAD) assessment with 
Miss B. This assessment took place in April 2022.
Briefly, the CPAD report concluded that there was evidence of significant symptom 
exaggeration in both the physical and cognitive assessments which were carried out. And it 
stated that the results couldnt be used to infer any barriers which prevented Miss B from 
returning to work. L&G also referred Miss Bs claim to its medical officer (MO), who 
concluded that Miss Bs mental health conditions wouldnt prevent a graded return to work.
On that basis, in May 2022, L&G decided that Miss B no longer met the policy definition of 
incapacity and therefore, it decided to terminate her claim. It wrote to Miss Bs employer to 
let it know that it would be terminating the claim on 12 July 2022, after paying benefit to 
reflect the graded return to work plan its MO had recommended.
Miss B was unhappy with L&Gs decision and she appealed. However, L&G maintained its 
stance, so Miss B asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for L&G to stop paying Miss Bs claim. He thought it 
had been fair for L&G to rely on the CPAD report and its MOs opinion to conclude that Miss 
B no longer met the policy definition of incapacity.
Miss B disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss B, I think it was fair for L&G to 
terminate her incapacity claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss B that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all that shes said and sent to 
us. I was very sorry to hear about Miss Bs ill-health and I dont doubt what a worrying time 
this has been for her. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point or on 
each piece of evidence and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I 
think are the key issues.
I should also make it clear that this decision will only consider L&Gs decision to turn down 
Miss Bs claim. Miss B has sent in some information about her employer. However, L&G isnt 
responsible for any action on the part of Miss Bs employer and I have no power to consider 
employment disputes, in any event. So I wont be commenting on any concerns Miss B may 
have about her employer.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the group policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I think 
L&G treated Miss B fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Miss Bs employer and L&G. Miss Bs employer made a claim on the policy after 
Miss B became incapacitated by a number of mental and physical health conditions. So its 
clear that when it accepted the claim in 2020, L&G was satisfied that Miss B met the 
following own occupation policy definition of incapacity:
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period.
The policy explains the duration for which L&G will pay benefit. It says:
Subject to production to us of evidence of the insured members entitlement to benefit, in 
such format and at such times as we may reasonably require, and to the remaining 
provisions of this Section, payment of member's benefit will continue so long as the insured 
member is a disabled member but not in any event after the benefit termination date or, if 
earlier, the death of the insured member.
And the policy also explains when benefit will be terminated. It says:
We will immediately end payment of benefitif the insured member ceases to be a disabled 
member.
The contract terms state that 
Disabled member: Means an insured member who at any time,
i. meets the incapacity definition, and
ii. is not engaged in any other occupation, other than one which causes payment of a 
partial benefit in accordance with Part 3, Section 7 of this policy.
In summary, I think the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that L&G will regularly review a 
claim its paying to check whether a policyholder remains incapacitated in line with the policy 
terms. And that if L&G thinks the evidence shows a policyholder is no longer incapacitated, it 
will stop paying the claim. In my experience, neither of these terms are unusual in income protection insurance policies. And generally, I think an insurer is entitled to periodically 
review a claim to ensure a policyholder still meets the policy definition of incapacity.
Ive looked carefully at L&Gs notes. I can see that it undertook regular reviews of Miss Bs 
claim while it remained in payment. And it appears to have asked for appropriate and 
relevant medical information. Previously, L&G had understood that the majority of Miss Bs 
incapacity was caused by her physical conditions. So it wrote to her GP to ask for more 
information. Miss Bs GP sent L&G a letter in December 2021.The letter referred to Miss B 
having come-off strong pain and sedative medication. They referred to Miss B taking an 
anti-depressant and anti-spasmodic medication, alongside a privately prescribed 
cannabinoid medication. The GPs letter also said:
On 18 June 2021 appropriate Rheumatologist gave a result of MRI scan of spine which did 
not show any significant pathology and she was discharged back to the GP care.
As above she has reported that she is aiming to go back to work in August 2021 therefore, it 
would be important to carry out occupational assessment. She has reduced her medication 
burden significantly and is on [sic] couple of medication from us. She is not on any pain relief 
medication prescribed by us in the past few months so it appears her pain is managed well.
L&G concluded that based on the GPs letter, it needed further evidence to decide whether 
Miss B remained incapacitated by her physical conditions, in line with the policy terms. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable position for L&G to take, given the GPs letter indicated 
that Miss Bs pain was managed well. And I dont think it was unfair for L&G to ask a third-
party provider to carry out a CPAD assessment with Miss B.
Miss B undertook the CPAD assessment in April 2022. Ive considered the CPAD report in 
detail and Ive set out below what I think were the assessors key findings:
Despite reporting severe exertion, pain, and disability during CPAD testing there was no 
evidence of organic signs (constant breathlessness and sweating) and at any timeAll of 
which indicates evidence of significant symptom exaggeration present on both days of 
CPAD testing.
There should, in normal circumstances be a consistent correlation between an individuals 
ratings of perceived exertion and the corresponding heart rates measured following each 
individual test. However, Ms Bs perceived exertion levels did not correlate with the heart 
rates measured in the majority of physical tests undertaken over both days of CPAD, 
indicating further that there is evidence of significant symptom exaggeration during testing
Miss B ambulated very slowly during formal testing on both days of CPAD. However, during 
the history taking she advised she is occasionally able to walk for 20-30-minutes. Indicating 
that she attempted to demonstrate a greater level of disability during direct testing than is the 
case
Based on the above inconsistencies and discrepancies, it is concluded that Ms B attempted 
to simulate weakness and disability during the CPAD physical tests, and therefore her 
reported severe disability, fatigue, pain, and exertion levels, and demonstrated markedly 
restricted and limited workday tolerances during formal testing cannot be viewed as barriers 
preventing her from returning to her normal role.
With regards to the battery of cognitive tests undertaken during the CPAD assessment, Ms B 
scored 28 on both days of CPAD intests, and therefore it is concluded that she did not 
demonstrate any level of cognitive impairment during this test on either day of CPAD.On the assumption that a person provides reliable and consistent effort during the CPAD 
assessment it is possible using the detailed protocols contained within the assessment to 
objectively determine their level of functional (physical and cognitive) ability and therefore 
fitness for work. However, in Ms Bs case, she performed with very poor reliability of effort 
and there was also evidence of significant symptom exaggeration in the physical and 
cognitive tests on both days of CPAD. Therefore, Ms Bs demonstrated level of function 
cannot be relied upon to reflect what she is truly capable of performing, and the CPAD 
results cannot therefore be used to infer any barriers preventing her from returning to her 
normal role.
The CPAD report specifically mentioned that the assessment didnt include a mental health 
assessment. I note too that an occupational health adviser also felt it would be appropriate 
for L&G to obtain a medical opinion on Miss Bs mental health. So L&G asked its MO to 
review the claim and I think this was an appropriate step for it to take. Ive copied what I think 
are the MOs key conclusions below:
While (Miss B) continues to engage in some form of psychological therapy on an ongoing 
basis, this would be considered part of her long-term condition management and not a 
barrier to work, in my opinion. I note she has scored mild-moderate for depression and 
anxiety on the recent May 2022 CS assessments using the GAD and PHQ scales, which is 
further supportive of relative stability with her psychological well-being, alongside her 
demonstrated functional ability
Overall, my impression is this member has sufficient functional ability to resume her own 
occupation in a graded manner. Given the prolonged absence, this would be a phased 
return over 6-8 weeks or so. Any remaining talking therapy or medical input can continue 
alongside work, in my view.
Miss B has provided us with a copy of an occupational health report dated July 2022  which 
post-dated the termination of the claim. The report was completed by a Doctor of 
Occupational Medicine. They concluded:
Based on my assessment today and Miss Bs reported chronic symptoms, I felt that a 
medical report from her GP would be required in this case in order for me to comment on 
fitness to work They concluded that Miss B was currently unfit for work but medical report 
from GP would be necessary.
Ive thought very carefully about the evidence that was available to L&G at the time it 
terminated Miss Bs claim and issued its final response to the complaint. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive.
And having considered all of the evidence, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for L&G 
to rely on the CPAD assessors report  an independent third-party - when it considered 
whether Miss B still met the policy definition of incapacity. It seems that based on the report, 
L&G had concerns that Miss Bs symptoms may no longer have been barriers to her 
returning to work, despite her reporting severe symptoms. And given the assessors findings, 
I dont think it was unfair for L&G to conclude that the CPAD assessment didnt show, on 
balance, that Miss B continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity. I appreciate Miss B 
had concerns about the CPAD assessor, whether they were suitably qualified and about how 
theyd handled her assessment. But I find L&G took appropriate steps to put Miss Bs 
concerns to the assessor, who didnt alter their conclusions.
Neither do I think it was unfair for L&G to ask its MO to also review the available medical evidence  particularly from a cognitive point of view. They are a specialist in their field and 
on balance, I find their view persuasive and reasoned evidence that Miss B no longer met 
the policy definition of incapacity. 
L&G listed the medical evidence it reviewed when it considered Miss Bs complaint in its final 
response letter. The July 2022 occupational health report isnt listed and I havent seen a 
copy of it in L&Gs file. So it isnt at all clear that L&G has had an opportunity to review this 
evidence. That means I dont think it would be reasonable for me to make any particular 
finding on the report. I do note though that the occupational health doctor referred to Miss 
Bs symptoms being reported and that the doctor appears to have felt that they needed a 
GPs medical report in order to comment on Miss Bs fitness to work.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Miss Bs position, I dont think L&G acted 
unreasonably when it relied on the medical evidence of its MO and the independent CPAD 
assessment findings to conclude that Miss B no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. 
That means that I dont find L&G acted unfairly when it terminated Miss Bs claim in July 
2022, based on the evidence it had at that time. Its open to Miss B to provide L&G with 
further evidence to support her position should she wish to do so. If shes unhappy with the 
outcome of any assessment of new medical evidence she may send to L&G, she may be 
able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman