DRN-4258406
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Equifax Limited reporting a disputed default on his credit file.
What happened
A debt purchaser, which Ill refer to as P, are reporting a defaulted debt on Mr Bs file. They 
bought the debt from the original lender, who had already defaulted the account. So they 
have continued to report the same default.
Mr B disputes the entry, as he says that he had a repayment arrangement with the original 
lender, and that they didnt send him the proper notice.
Equifax raised disputes on Mr Bs behalf, but P confirmed that the information was correct 
and they did not consent to it being changed. Equifax relayed this to Mr B and explained 
they couldnt change the data without Ps permission. They also apologised for not initially 
responding to one of Mr Bs emails.
Mr B came to our service. As the original lender had since gone out of business, he thought 
Equifax were the best party to bring the complaint against. He felt he could not have been 
lawfully defaulted if he was keeping up with a repayment plan.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Equifax really couldnt change the data without the data owners consent.
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Mr B thought to bring his complaint against Equifax. But Im afraid they 
werent really the right party to come to us about. In a complaint against Equifax, I can only 
consider what Equifax did. I cannot hold them responsible for another, separate businesss 
historic actions  such as the original lenders choice to default Mr B. That was done by the 
original lender, not by Equifax.
Further, Equifax do not own the data on Mr Bs credit file. Its the companies who log the 
data  like Mr Bs lenders and utility companies  who own that data. So here, its P who 
own the entry about the default. And P are responsible for their own entry. Essentially, 
Equifax are not allowed to change or remove that entry without Ps permission.
Of course, when a customer queries an entry, Id expect Equifax to raise that dispute with 
the data owner on the customers behalf. And I can see that Equifax did that here, twice. But 
both times, P confirmed that the information was correct, and they did not consent to it being 
changed. Equifax were not able to change it in this case.
If Mr B would like Ps credit file entry to be changed, then he would be better off disputing it 
with P directly. He might then be able to bring that complaint to our service so we can look 
into it independently. Alternatively, he might be able to raise a complaint about the original 
lenders actions with their administrators, which our investigator gave him the details for.
Ive also considered how Equifax handled things for Mr B. I can see they didnt initially 
respond to one of his emails, which understandably gave him the impression he was being 
ignored. I can see that Equifax explained what happened there and apologised, which I think 
is sufficient to deal with that issue. And I find that they otherwise broadly handled things as 
they should have.
Lastly, I thought it would also be helpful for me to give a more general explanation about 
defaults. I understand Mr B feels strongly that it would be unlawful for a lender to default him 
while he was in a payment arrangement. But lenders can potentially still default customers 
who are in payment plans, for example if the repayments theyre getting are much lower than 
the accounts contractual minimum payments  token £1/month payments are a common 
example. Of course, in this complaint about Equifax Ive not investigated what happened 
between Mr B and the original lender  who are a separate business to Equifax. So Ive not 
made any findings on whether that lender did the right thing or not, or whether this default is 
correct or not. But I hope that provides some useful context.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Equifax Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman