DRN-4395968
The complaint
Mr A has complained that NTM Financial Services Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr As employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr A joined the BSPS in April 1990 and had just under 27 years of pensionable
service. His projected benefits at the time of advice were:
An annual pension of £18,601 at age 65 or a reduced pension of £12,328 and a tax 
free lump sum of £82,186
Death benefits including the return of member contributions of £51,272.76 and a 50%
spouses pension. There was also a dependants pension potentially up to age 23.
When the pensions regulator announced terms for the closure of the BSPS pension, 
members were provided with personal information and illustrations in October 2017 to help
them make their choices.
As the scheme was closing, the funds could be transferred to either:
The BSPS 2 which was being proposed
The PPF
A PPP arrangement (or similar)
At the time of advice, Mr A was 54 and the business file recorded that he was considering 
retirement at age 57. 
A defined benefit transfer value quotation was issued on 28 June 2017 outlining Mr As
benefits with the now closed scheme. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was 
£341,820.60. The date of leaving the scheme was recorded as 31 March 2017. The scheme 
allowed for early retirement at age 55 with actuarial reductions.
The client questionnaire, attitude to risk questionnaire and Pension Transfer Analysis
Application were completed on 9 August 2017. These documents noted Mr As 
circumstances at the time of advice as follows:
He was married
He was in good health, other than a planned routine operation 
He had two children, one of whom was financially dependent
His salary was £37,000 pa and his net income was £2,345 per month (£2,000 without 
bonus)
His total expenditure was £1,172 pm (£911.30 debt repayments) and he had surplus 
income of £1,173 pm
He had a further £200 per month from other income related to land he held (not listed 
under the income section)
His main residence was valued at £170,000, with a £120,000 mortgage attached
He owned land worth £150,000
He had a loan of £5,000 and a hire purchase amount of £2,500 due to be repaid in 
April 2019
He had credit card debt of £8,800
He had no other investments 
The client information form had handwritten notes which said that Mr A had little investment 
knowledge, but a good understanding of the changes with his employer and the OPS, along 
with his options. He selected the following statement to reflect his attitude to investment risk:
Investors in the High risk group are only prepared to take a medium degree of risk with their
financial decisions. When faced with a major financial decision they are usually more
concerned about the possible gains than the possible losses. It is somewhat more important
that the value of their investments retains its purchasing power than it does not fall. For
some, a fall of 20% in the total value of their investments would make them feel
uncomfortable but for most it would take a fall of 33%.
A risk profile questionnaire was also completed on 9 August 2017 and in the first two 
questions Mr A indicated he was an average risk taker and when things go wrong 
financially he adapted Somewhat uneasily. The rest of the answers were scored and Mr A 
was found to be classed as a High Risk investor.
In a file note made on 13 September 2017, Mr A confirmed he understood the funding
arrangements of the new scheme (as he was a union official).
On 9 August 2017 it was also recorded that, in a meeting held with Mr A, his attitude to risk 
was discussed, along with his investment knowledge. Mr A felt he had an above average 
knowledge of investments due to the changes being made to the OPS and the investment 
needs of the scheme. He needed to understand these as the changes needed to be agreed 
by the union and its members.A recommendation report outlining the recommendation to transfer and the Pension Transfer 
Report was issued to Mr A on 5 September 2017.
The report outlined Mr As goal and objectives. The investigator summarised them as 
follows:
He understood the changes and wanted to transfer to allow him to have control over 
his affairs and to meet his lifestyle needs, rather than worry about the future of the 
BSPS.
He believed life expectancy was lower for people in the steel industry. Mr A wanted 
to be in control of his destiny as he felt let down by the company, pension trustees, 
government and regulators.
He wanted to retire at age 57.
He wanted an income of approximately £1,800 per month.
He was attracted to the flexible options provided by taking control of his benefits.
He was no longer happy to delegate to the trustees and his employer control over his 
retirement benefits, especially as they were no longer underpinned by his employer.
He held the strong opinion that the pension should be used to provide him with 
capital and income to meet his needs. Protection benefits were a secondary 
consideration.
He was expecting to earn income from the land he owned and a further separate 
venture - however it was noted that this might vary.
He wanted his pension to make up the shortfall as income from business interests 
would fluctuate.
He wanted to be able to control the amount of tax he paid.
He was unhappy about the prospect of being moved into the PPF because of the
reduced benefits, the loss of choice and lack of flexibility.
The suitability letter discussed Mr As attitude to risk. Capacity for loss was also discussed 
and it was concluded that Mr A understood there may be fluctuations in the value of any
investments to achieve his objectives.
The reduction factors in his expected OPS pension were not available for 57 and so the 
report explained this and used 55 to provide an indication of the effect on the benefits. The 
estimated benefits at age 55 were presented in the Pension Transfer Report as an annual 
pension of £10,004 or an annual pension of £7,075 and tax free lump sum of £47,167.
The suitability report and Pension Transfer Report (containing PPF figures) provided critical
yields and hurdle rates which the investigator set out as follows:
BSPS
Critical yield at age 65 with full scheme pension  9.19% pa
Critical yield at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  7.18% pa
Hurdle rate at age 65 with full scheme pension  2.79% pa
Hurdle rate at age 65 with tax free cash taken  1.47% pa
Critical yield at age 55 with full scheme pension  in excess of 50%
Critical yield at age 55 with tax free cash taken  in excess of 50%
Hurdle rate at age 55 with full scheme pension  19.52%Hurdle rate at age 55 with tax free cash taken  20%
PPF
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  4.91% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  4.33% pa
The hurdle rates were the levels of growth required to provide a level of income equal to the 
scheme benefits, but with no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee.
The suitability letter noted that the critical yields were too high and it would be difficult to
justify recommending a transfer based on these alone. It was recorded that Mr A
understood that the transfer would generate lower income than the BSPS. 
But it also recorded that he had strong views about being able to tailor his own income. He 
required £1,800 per month and wanted to have an income to supplement that from other 
sources. 
The growth rates quoted for the hurdle rates were not deemed excessive. The report further 
recorded that Mr A wanted the ability to vary income in early years of his retirement.
Cash flow modelling was presented to show the effects of using uncrystallised funds pension 
lump sums (UFPLS) or drawdown to provide income. The modelling was done assuming a 
5% growth rate at age 55 and 65. The results were summarised as below:
Retirement at 55 Retirement at 65
Using UFPLS to fund 
benefits equal to existing 
scheme pension onlyBy age 99 there would be
£156,249 remainingBy age 99 there would be
£873 remaining
Using Drawdown to fund
benefits equal to existing
scheme pension onlyBy 89 fund would be
depleted but there would
still be the lump sum
payment availableBy 89 fund would be
depleted but there would
still be the lump sum
payment available
Using UFPLS to fund 
benefits equal to existing 
scheme cash and reduced 
pensionBy age 99 there would be
£379,499 remainingBy age 99 there would be
£320,420 remaining
Using drawdown to fund 
benefits equal to existing
scheme cash and reduced
pensionBy age 99 there would be 
£190,276 remaining in
addition to lump sum
payment availableBy age 99 there would be 
£173,517 remaining in
addition to lump sum
payment available
Further modelling was undertaken assuming £100,000 was taken as a lump sum to repay 
the mortgage at age 57 and a withdrawal of £1,800 pm net of tax started at age 57 until age 
67.
At age 67 the income dropped by the amount of the state pension Mr A would then receive. 
This calculation found that the fund would be depleted at age 71 assuming 5% growth and 
age 74 assuming 7% growth.
The report also said that Mr As adventurous attitude to risk meant he had the capacity to 
achieve the higher growth rate to meet his objectives. It was noted that a discussion was 
required as to how he would repay his mortgage debt at 67.The report set out that, while past performance is categorically no guide to future, based 
upon back testing of the recommended investment portfolio over a period of 5 years the
annualised growth was equivalent to 13.84% and over 10 years is 10.13%.
The recommendation was made to give Mr A control over his financial affairs. It was noted 
that taking scheme benefits would allow him to pay off a significant portion of his mortgage, 
but a transfer would significantly enhance the amount and allow him to retire debt free, with 
a cash surplus.
The file recorded that providing life cover was considered but discounted on the basis of 
cost.
The report noted that the recommendation was not made to achieve early retirement as 
transferring to achieve better guaranteed benefits was not possible. The rationale for 
transferring was to access higher levels of tax free cash to repay debts and to access the 
pension benefits flexibly. 
The recommendation set out the funds appropriate for Mr As recorded high risk rating.
An illustration was provided which set out the charges below and provided projections for the 
funds selected at the assumed lower band growth rate of -0.71% pa, mid band 2.29% pa 
and a higher growth rate of 5.29% pa. These were calculated after the effects of inflation.
The charges applied were as follows:
Type of charge Amount
Product charge 0.30% pa
Fund Charges 0.43% pa
Initial Adviser charge £6,836
Ongoing adviser charge 0.65% pa
Notes were made from a meeting on 13 September 2017, which was just after the 
recommendation report was issued. The adviser confirmed that the actual critical yields 
would be lower as theyd been based on BSPS rather than BSPS 2. It was discussed that it 
was not confirmed that the BSPS 2 would go ahead and was dependent upon meeting 
funding and member number targets. It was also explained that the PPF may be a better 
option for Mr A than BSPS 2. Mr A had been unaware that the PPF offered better TFC and 
income earlier.
Mr A confirmed that he now intended to take his tax free cash at age 55. He confirmed at
this meeting that he had no intention to pay off his debt immediately, although the 
investigator noted that NTM had said that Mr A took £42,668 on 1 May 2018 and, by 14 
October 2019, Mr A had taken £65,000.
Capacity for loss was discussed and how Mr A would feel if he lost a significant amount or all 
of his pension funds. He said he would be unhappy but felt that was not realistic. He said
he would accept the falls as outlined in the report and would be prepared to wait for funds to
recover after a fall.
Mr A accepted NTMs recommendation and transferred his defined benefits. 
He complained to NTM in December 2021, but NTM declined to uphold the complaint. 
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr A referred the matter to this service. As part of the investigators assessment, he noted Mr As comments that he didnt 
understand why being a union official gave him a better than average understanding of 
investments, as this related more to human resources issues. He further said that he didnt 
have much experience of investing but had taken part in the share save scheme before Tata 
took over.
Mr A also said that he hadnt planned to retire at age 57 before seeing the adviser and only 
started thinking about this when it was suggested that this was a viable option. His plan was 
to remain in the scheme until 65 as he was aware there were reductions for retiring
early. He is still working at the same employer.
He further confirmed that the lump sum payment he took at age 55 was used to buy a gift for 
his daughter and go on holiday as he believed he would be able to retire at age 57.
Having considered the complaint, the investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
Mr A was 54 at the time of the advice and was considering retiring in just over two 
years time. It was reasonable for Mr A to be considering early retirement, but 
financial advisers have a duty to ensure that clients objectives are viable and 
realistic.
There were plans to develop income streams from the land Mr A owned, and one 
other venture, but these couldnt be relied upon at the time of the advice.
As such plans were at a very fledgling, and unpredictable, stage, and the 
recommendation was based upon Mr A having the need for flexibility of income, and 
the ability to vary this as income from other sources fluctuated, Mr A was likely to be 
predominantly reliant upon his pension income. 
Mr A had benefits which would produce a guaranteed income for life of £18,601 pa at 
age 65, but the report produced modelling which showed that, based upon a target 
growth rate of 5% pa, and with a retirement age of 57, income of £1,800 pa and a 
£100,000 lump sum, Mr As funds would be depleted at age 71 (or age 74 with a 7% 
growth rate). This wasnt in Mr As best interests.
Mr A had sizeable debts at age 54, including £7,500 in loans which were due to be 
repaid in April 2019, £8,800 of credit card debt, and an outstanding mortgage of 
£120,000 - although the client information form said he had £1,173 pm surplus 
income.
Although Mr A was recorded as considering himself to have above average 
knowledge of investments, seemingly due to his role with his trade union, he didnt 
present as such an individual. Mr As only experience of investments seemed to be 
his employers share save scheme, but this was organised as part of his employment 
package. And although Mr A said that was intending to take the tax free cash, he had 
no immediate plans to repay his debt. 
Mr A would have needed a relatively secure income with which to service the 
outstanding debts and eventually repay them. The transfer therefore didnt represent 
a credible strategy and it should have been made clear that it wasnt in Mr As best 
interests to proceed with it and retire at age 57.Mr A had been assessed as having an adventurous investment strategy, but the 
responsibility for this assessment seemed to have been placed on Mr A. But his 
comment that it wasnt realistic for him to prospectively lose a significant proportion of 
his pension fund wasnt consistent with a high risk profile.
He was also recorded as being prepared to accept falls in the value of his pension 
fund and then wait for it to recover, but the recommendation was for him to make 
withdrawals of £1,800 pm in just over two years time  and his other source of 
income was only producing £200pm at the time of the advice.
Mr A didnt have the capacity to lose his secure income. If Mr A wished to retire early, 
he would need to pay down his debt and reduce his income requirement. And if this 
wasnt possible, then he needed to defer taking his benefits.
Mr A had in fact said that he didnt intend on retiring at age 57, and it was only when 
this was presented as a viable option that it became an objective. It wasnt therefore 
a true objective and he should have been advised that it wasnt a realistic option.
Mr A may have scored highly in the risk questionnaire, but he had effectively 
transitioned from someone who had never invested before to someone who was 
reliant upon his investment to provide for his retirement needs. And his comment in 
the risk profile questionnaire that he adapted to things going wrong financially 
somewhat uneasily wasnt representative of someone who was comfortable with 
risk.
Given Mr As lack of previous investment experience, his age and overall 
circumstances, the adventurous risk rating wasnt suitable for him.
Although Mr A may have considered himself to be familiar with investments on the 
basis of his involvement with the union, he hadnt for example been aware that the 
PPF offered better tax free cash, even after this had been included in the time to 
choose documentation. He was therefore heavily reliant upon the advice given.
According to the financial report, Mr A had expressed concerns about the potential 
loss of flexibility if the pension benefits were transferred into the PPF, but if that was 
the case, then NTM should have explained that the PPF would continue to provide 
valuable benefits. This may have reassured Mr A.
In terms of the BSPS 2, the adviser told Mr A that there was no confirmation that it 
would be established as it was contingent upon meeting requirements relating to 
funding and member numbers. But costed plans were being put in place in 
conjunction with the regulators.
The meeting notes explained why the PFF would offer preferential terms if Mr A was 
planning to retire at age 57. But this wasnt in any case realistic and early retirement 
shouldnt have been recommended.
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld.
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The investigator said that the investment return required to match the OPS benefits 
at age 65 was 9.19% pa, and that to match the PPF benefits at the same retirement 
age it was 4.91% pa. But this compared to a discount rate of 3.1% pa for the ten 
years to retirement in this case. and for retirement at age 57, this dropped to 2.7% 
pa.For additional context, the growth rates in the personalised illustration were -0.71% 
for the lower band growth rate, 2.29% for the mid band, and 5.29% for the higher rate 
band.
Although the high performance figures quoted for the last five and ten years for the 
recommended recipient fund were caveated with warnings that they were no guide to 
the future, given Mr As lack of investment experience, it was likely that these would 
have set his expectations.
Given the composition of assets used in the discount rate, Mr As attitude to risk and 
term to retirement, he was likely to receive benefits that were of a materially lower 
value than the occupational pension scheme.
The recommendation report said that Mr A understood that the transfer would 
generate a lower level of income than the BSPS, but it was nevertheless justified on 
the basis that the pension income would be used to supplement the income from 
other sources. But this was at the time generating a very low monthly income and the 
plans werent sufficiently well formed to justify relinquishing such a valuable source of 
future income.
It was clear that the pension income was likely to be that which Mr A would rely upon 
for the rest of his life, and it was therefore too valuable to lose.
The recommendation was made on the basis of the flexibility of income and that hed 
be able to retire in just over two years. But in contrast to the OPS, where the 
investment risks were borne by the employer and the costs pooled with other 
members, Mr A was recommended a strategy where he bore the high risks and he 
incurred the costs. These were unnecessary.
The investigator recommended that NTM undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that, as there 
was no credible plan for Mr A to retire early, that he would have opted to join the BSPS 2 
and retire at 65.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr As pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr A, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
He also said that NTM should pay Mr A £400 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
the matter would have caused him due to the realisation that hes lost out on valuable 
guaranteed benefits.
Mr A made no further comment upon investigators findings. NTM said that it would respond 
as soon as possible, but that it had a large volume of cases to deal with.
As no further response from the business was received, the (new) investigator informed both 
parties that the matter would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
NTM then said that it considered that it would be appropriate to undertake a loss calculation 
for this case, with no admission of liability. And so it requested that information be sought 
from Mr A so that it could do so.
The investigator acknowledged this request but then informed NTM that shed enquired of 
Mr A as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have a loss 
calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology for defined 
benefit transfer redress calculations.Mr A confirmed that hed like any redress calculation to be conducted on the basis of the 
existing guidance.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, she said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require NTM to use the 
FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr A.
The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr As complaint, they should let her
know by 5 June 2023.
Neither party has submitted further comments in respect of this.
The complaint has now been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by the investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but 
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time NTM advised Mr A were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like NTM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, NTM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr As 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension 
scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of NTMs advice to Mr A in the context of the above 
requirements and guidance.
NTMs rationale for transferring
Mr A wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and NTM was taking him 
through the advice process. Therefore, NTM could be confident that he would be acting 
upon its advice.In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr A and his 
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above that the FCAs guidance was that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mr As options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. 
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr A would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
NTM obtained a transfer report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr As objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were 
deemed achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, 
similar rates were published by this service. As noted by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the number of years left to the scheme retirement 
age of 65 was 3.1% pa. And the growth rates used in the TVAS to illustrate the benefits 
which might be payable from a PPP were -0.71% (low), 2.29% (mid) and 5.29% (high).
The critical yields to age 65, at 9.19% for full pension income benefits with no tax free cash, 
and 7.18% with tax free cash being taken, and then over 50% respectively at age 55 (and 
likely somewhere approaching this for age 57), therefore comfortably exceeded both the 
discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the higher growth 
rate used by the pension provider  which might perhaps be a reasonable assumption for a 
high risk investor (even if I accept that this was realistically the case  see further below).
As noted by NTM, the above critical yields were calculated on the basis of the BSPS 
benefits, rather than the BSPS 2 benefits. The critical yields to match those which would be 
produced by the PPF at age 65 were 4.91% pa with full pension income, and 4.33% pa with 
tax free cash and a reduced income. 
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr As own projected benefits, I 
think it ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor 
scheme as well. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming critical yields somewhere 
between those for the BSPS and the PPF wouldnt be unreasonable in estimating those 
which might be required for the BSPS 2. But these would still have been higher than the 
growth rate which would reasonably have been projected for an investor such as Mr A (even 
if he was a high risk investor, which I address further below).
NTM itself said it considered the critical yields to likely be unachievable, and I agree - I think 
its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year, for the 
number of years that Mr A had until he reached either early or normal retirement age. And as 
a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the 
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out by the investigator, the guidance 
was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr As best 
interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial 
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr A would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that NTM did 
provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as NTM will be aware, 
and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a recommendation report, this also 
wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. NTM needed to be satisfied, before 
providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment 
risk was a suitable course of action for Mr A.
As Ive said above, NTMs reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the likely 
inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by the 
scheme, was that Mr A required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances, 
objectives, and concerns about his employer and the pension scheme. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other significant assets, I do 
acknowledge that Mr A may have understood the principle of risk/reward which would be 
associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there may have been discussions 
around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the same process. 
But I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding the reliability of 
the risk rating attributed to Mr A, given his lack of investment experience and other assets 
beyond pension savings. The tool it used to determine Mr As risk attitude can only provide a 
general guide to a likely risk rating, and some of the answers given by Mr A, for example, his 
comment that he would adapt to things going wrong financially somewhat uneasily, would 
reasonably in my view have cast doubt on whether Mr A should be attributed anything 
greater than a medium risk attitude.
But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr As capacity to take financial risks with his 
pension funds which is pertinent to the overall suitability of what was recommended here. 
The investigator concluded that Mr A had an overall low capacity for loss, given his paucity 
of other assets and outstanding debts. And Im inclined to agree. Mr A had joined the 
replacement defined contribution scheme, and so would likely have accrued a reasonable 
amount of money purchase benefits given the overall contribution rate (if he remained with 
the same employer). 
But other than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the defined benefits 
accrued through the BSPS were likely to have been his main source of guaranteed income. 
Through transferring, Mr A was effectively putting a lot of his eggs in one money purchase 
basket. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would therefore have had an 
impact on his financial security in retirement.
And NTM was, or ought to have been, aware of the importance Mr A would have attached to 
these pension benefits. As set out by the investigator, although Mr A may have had a small alternative income stream, this wasnt producing, and couldnt be relied upon to produce, the 
kind of income Mr A wanted in retirement.
But I also dont think Mr A in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of 
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr A would have 
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew 
from a flexi-drawdown arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. But other than 
concerns around the employer and associated scheme, which Ill address further below, its 
unclear as to why Mr A would have wanted or needed such flexibility at the cost of such 
valuable guaranteed benefits, given the investment risk associated with the transfer, and 
bearing in mind his likely actual risk rating and apparent lack of any similar historical 
investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his pension 
income.
NTM has suggested that Mr A was willing to accept the trade-off between a secure income 
and risk to achieve his objectives. As Ive said above, although there were answers he gave 
which would suggest that he wasnt suited to a high or adventurous risk rating, I think Mr A 
may have understood the principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by NTM. 
Mr A was accruing further benefits in his defined contribution scheme, and given the 
contribution rates to that scheme (my understanding is that this was 10% and 6% employer 
and employee contributions respectively) and the number of years left to retirement, 
compared against the benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, at the normal scheme 
retirement age, around 11 years of his pension accrual would likely be derived of the defined 
contribution scheme. As such, Mr A would already by necessity have been taking investment 
risk through the replacement scheme.
In light of this, and given that in the 27 years up to that point Mr A had been accruing defined 
benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value and shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which 
was loosely defined around the apparent desire for early retirement and concerns around the 
employer/scheme. 
As with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr A would have been concerned 
about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr As concerns around this 
should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a 
client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health 
of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the 
employer, even if Mr A distrusted it. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which 
had resulted in the agreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the 
necessity of the BSPS pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and 
in fact by the time of the Time to Choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than 
not to be a viable alternative. Ive noted what NTM said about the conditions which still 
needed to be met for the BSPS 2 to be established, but when the advice was given, there 
was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative 
to this  the BSPS 2. In fact, I think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the 
contrary.
I also have concerns around the way in which the situation at that time was portrayed to Mr 
A. At several points in the recommendation report, the lack of employer underpinning was 
mentioned, but this wouldnt by the point of advice have meant that Mr As pension benefits were in peril, with the fallback position being that, even if the BSPS 2 couldnt be formed, 
they would be transferred into the PPF. 
And again, the loss of the guarantee from the employer was mentioned, but the benefits 
(albeit in a slightly reduced form) would have been guaranteed even in the PPF. 
Although the benefits of the PPF were mentioned in a later part of the report, I think Mr As 
concerns would have been reinforced by much of the language used, rather than mitigated. 
And as Ive said above, I think by the time of the advice, the formation of the BSPS 2 was 
the more likely of the possible outcomes.
The prospect of Mr As accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had receded. But even if 
this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided him with valuable 
benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he did in fact take 
scheme benefits earlier than age 65. 
And so I think that, had Mr As concerns been better managed, the seeming key driver for 
having control over his pension benefits would also have diminished.
And on the specific matter of early retirement, I agree with the investigator that financial 
advice should be more than simple wish fulfilment. And if such a plan isnt credible, then 
the client should be advised of this. In this case, Mr A did have both secured and unsecured 
loans, and if he began to take benefits from the transferred sum in the way which had been 
described, his funds would have run out by his early 70s. Notwithstanding the point which 
Ive noted about perhaps more limited life expectancy for a steel worker (which I in any case 
think would depend heavily on the role undertaken) this was some way short of even 
average life expectancy for a 54 year old, let alone the possibility of him living longer than 
this.
But Ive also noted that NTM itself said that it wouldnt recommend the transfer on the basis 
of early retirement, as this could in any case have been achieved through the guaranteed 
scheme benefits.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the possibility of early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was 
sufficient reason for Mr A to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
NTM has confirmed that the restructuring of the death benefits wasnt recorded as being 
important for Mr A, and I note that Mrs A had her own pension income, and so this didnt 
form part of the rationale for transferring. But I would comment that accrued pension 
provision is intended to provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a 
legacy for extended family members. The recommendation needed to be given in the 
context of Mr As best interests, and Mr A himself identified this.
What should NTM have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr As decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr A. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.But there was no imminent prospect of Mr As scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF. On 
the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point guaranteed, I think the indications 
were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr A was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr A, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, 
which clearly fed into his views on having control over his own pension funds, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement  
(although Mr A disputes that this was the case, and he only became interested in it when it 
was portrayed as being viable) was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would 
have remained so even in the scenario of entry into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. The available evidence simply 
doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently 
compelling reasons for Mr A to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr As concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need, and a future pension which would, other than the state 
pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon investment returns  rather than being 
partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the case through the defined 
contribution scheme.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been available both from his accrued 
defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and both the mid 
and higher band growth rates set out by the pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it 
was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, 
given Mr As likely risk attitude.
Taking account of Mr As circumstances, including his recorded (if not likely lower) attitude to 
risk, his objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted 
with either the BSPS 2 or the PPF, my view is that NTM should have advised against the 
transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr A would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr A, nor was 
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr As likely lower risk rating 
and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr As options and the future benefits available from the BSPS 
defined benefits  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least one of the key benefits sought by Mr A were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement, although Id refer to my comments, aligned as they 
are to the investigators, about the actual viability of this. I also note that Mr A remains 
employed to date.
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr As likely lower attitude to risk with 
regard to his pension funds than was recorded and matching that with the likely 
corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely (as also indicated by NTM), albeit I 
acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor 
scheme, could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as set out in COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, NTM 
would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt 
in Mr As best interests.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 
if suitable advice had been given. I acknowledge that the PPF may have provided enhanced 
early retirement benefits, but had Mr A been suitable advised, I dont think he would have 
opted to take early retirement, certainly at 57, and the benefits he apparently sought, with 
the prospect of running out of money in his early 70s.
NTM Financial Services Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
NTM Financial Services Ltd should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr A and our 
Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr A hasnt yet retired, and my understanding is that he has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. It may, however, factor in the tax free cash 
withdrawals Mr A has taken (which he did on the basis that he thought at the time that 
retirement at age 57 was feasible).
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr As
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, NTM Financial Services Ltd should:
calculate and offer Mr A redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr A before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation),
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr A receives could be augmented rather
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr A accepts NTM Financial Services Ltds offer to calculate how much of its 
redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr 
for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress 
augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented,
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr As end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr A as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr As likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require NTM Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr A the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr A the balance.
If Mr A accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on NTM Financial Services Ltd.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on NTM Financial Services Ltd. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr A could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final 
decision.As with the investigator, my view is that this matter will have caused Mr A a not 
inconsiderable amount of concern about his security in retirement, especially given his 
proximity to what he thought at the time might be possible retirement age of 57. As such, I 
agree that NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr A £400 in respect of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct NTM Financial Services Ltd to 
undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman