DRN-4300646
The complaint
Ms H believes Startline Motor Finance Limited acted irresponsibly by agreeing a hire 
purchase agreement shed applied for.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. The agreement was for £9,995 over 45 months, with monthly repayments of 
£303.41. The car was stolen by Ms Hs ex-partner in 2021, and her insurance company paid 
out on a claim, which settled the outstanding amount on the agreement.
Ms H has complained that Startline didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. She 
says she was coerced into taking out the agreement by her abusive ex-partner, and that it 
wasnt affordable to her as an unemployed single parent of three children with existing loans 
and credit cards.
Startline didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint, so she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline had undertaken a credit check and verified Miss Hs 
income through an electronic verification system. However, he wasnt convinced that all of 
Miss Vs credit commitments had been taken into consideration, or that theyd factored in 
any housing costs. And, because the introducing credit broker has said that Miss V was 
unemployed, the investigator thought Startlines checks werent reasonable and 
proportionate, and they shouldve done more to verify her income and expenditure.
The investigator considered Miss Vs bank statements from the time of her application to 
Startline, as he thought this would give a reasonable picture of Miss Hs financial 
circumstances at the time. And he said these showed that Ms Hs income was made up of 
benefits and was substantially lower than the amount Startline had electronically verified.
The investigator said that, when looking at Ms Hs income and committed expenditure, she 
had around £86 a month disposable income, which wasnt sufficient to pay Startlines 
payment of £303 a month. So, he said Startline had acted unfairly, and the agreement 
wasnt affordable to Ms H. And they should do something to put things right.
The investigator said that, where an agreement had been settled in full, wed expect the 
financial business to refund anything over and above the cash price of the car, plus statutory 
interest. And he also thought any adverse credit relating to the agreement should be 
removed from the credit reference agencies.
The investigator also considered Ms Hs complaint about coercion, but he didnt think that 
Startline shouldve been reasonably aware of this at the time they processed her application.
Ms H agreed with the investigator, but Startline didnt. They said that electronic verification of 
income was a valid tool, and they dont think they did anything wrong by verifying Ms Hs 
income this way. They also thought it was reasonable to rely on the information contained 
within their credit check, and to allow for 20% of the customers income for housing and 
other associated costs. So, they didnt think wed put enough weight on the checks they did.
Whats more, Startline thought it was unreasonable to deny customers access to credit, just 
because they are unemployed. And they didnt think it was reasonable the investigator relied 
on the bank statements, as they hadnt seen these at the time of the application.
Because Startline didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Startline make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms H 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Startline didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Ms Hs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Startline complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the finance being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the credit search Startline carried out when they approved the finance for 
Ms H. This shows theyd calculated her net monthly income as £2,835. It also shows Ms H 
was paying £80 a month to a utility supplier, £357 a month to four unsecured loans, £471 a 
month for a mortgage, and that she had an outstanding balance of £1,398 on four credit 
cards / mail order accounts.
Startline have said that they take 5% of any outstanding balance when doing an affordability 
check. However, they havent provided a copy of their affordability calculation to show what 
expenditure they accounted for, and whether this is reasonable. 
Its also not disputed that Ms H declared on her application form that she was both 
unemployed and in rented accommodation. While I agree that Startline arent able to 
discriminate against a customer just because their income is made up of benefits, some 
benefits are only paid for a time limited period. So, I think it wouldve been appropriate for 
them to have asked Ms H more questions about her income, so as to determine whether the 
finance would be affordable for the full term.In addition to this, Ms H said she was in rented accommodation, but the credit search shows 
a mortgage. This may indicate Ms H had a second property (one rented, one mortgaged) 
which would result in an increase in property related expenditure such as council tax and 
utility bills. I also think that Startline shouldve asked Ms H more questions about this.
Finally, Ive listened to a call between Ms H and the introducing credit broker, that took place 
when Ms H was applying for finance. On this call, Ms H made it clear that the car was for her 
partner, that he would be the main driver, and that she would only be an additional driver. 
While she later backtracked on this during the call, and said the car was for her and not for 
her partner, the broker said they would need to make the finance company (Startline) aware 
of this. And doing so was a regulatory requirement. 
However, I havent seen anything to show me that Startline ever discussed this with Ms H, to 
satisfy themselves that she wasnt obtaining finance on behalf of someone else. And this is 
what Ms H has subsequently said was the case  she was coerced into taking out the 
agreement by her then abusive partner.
So, given the above, Im not satisfied that Startline carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when approving the finance Ms H applied for. As such, Ive considered what Startline 
wouldve found out had these checks been carried out.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms H would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Ms H has provided bank statements for two accounts, for the periods 29 July to 27 
December 2019 and 16 July to 14 December 2019 respectively. As the finance agreement 
was electronically signed on 11 November 2019, and while I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Startline to ask for bank statements, I think the bank statements for the three 
months prior to the agreement being signed give a good indication of what Startline would 
likely have discovered if theyd asked about Ms Hs income and expenditure at the time.
The bank statements show that Ms H regularly transferred money between her accounts, 
and she also received £10,000 from the sale of a property (the one with the mortgage) 
during the period in question. Im aware that the type of electronic check Startline carried out 
looks at money going into accounts, and both the transfers and the sale proceeds couldve 
affected these results. Which shows me that, in this instance, the income verification check 
Startline carried out wasnt reasonable to rely upon.
The bank statements show that Ms Hs income was made up entirely of benefits. And this 
included £443.40 a month that was paid specifically to cover her sons care requirements. As 
such, this cant be counted as part of her income. So, based on what Ive seen, at the time of 
the application Ms H had an income of £2,336 a month.
The bank statements also show that Ms H was paying £750 a month towards her rent; £235 
a month for her household bills; £87 a month for insurances; and £120 a month for TV, 
phone, and broadband. She was also paying £464 a month towards her existing credit 
commitments. Ive also noted that Ms Hs housing and associated costs were around 42% of 
her monthly income, substantially more than the 20% Startline said they would have used in 
any affordability calculation.
This would have left Ms H with £680 a month from which to pay her transportation and food 
costs (which she says were around £650 a month), the £303 payment to Startline, and any 
other non-essential expenditure she may have.Its therefore clear from this that Ms H didnt have sufficient income from which to sustainably 
support the payments to Startline. And had they done reasonable and proportionate checks 
to establish her actual income and outgoings, they wouldve seen that the finance shouldnt 
have been approved. So, I think that Startline need to do something to put things right.
Did Startline act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As Ive said above, Ms H initially told the credit broker that she was taking the finance out for 
her partner. However, when challenged by the broker, she then said the finance was being 
taken out for herself, and that she wanted to raise a complaint when the broker said this 
would need to be referred to Startline.
So, while I havent seen anything to show me that Startline discussed this matter with Ms H, 
had they done so, I think its more likely than not Ms H wouldve maintained her position that 
the car was for her, and that her partner would be taking separate finance for his own 
vehicle. As such, I dont think that Startline would reasonably have known she was being 
coerced into taking the finance for another person. And I cant say theyve acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not acting on information they were unaware of.
Putting things right
In a situation like this, when the finance has been repaid, its our approach that Ms H 
shouldnt pay any more than the cash price of the car  in this instance £9,995. So, Startline 
should:
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Ms Hs credit file;
refund anything Ms H has paid over and above the £9,995 cash price of the car; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Ms H made 
the payments to the date of the refund .
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited. And they should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman