DRN-4469733
The complaint
Mr S complains about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Throughout the claim Mr S was also 
dealing with other companies who act as QICs agents. As QIC has accepted it is 
accountable for the actions of its agents, in my decision, any reference to QIC includes the 
actions of the agents. 
What happened
Mr M has a comprehensive motor insurance policy with QIC which started in May 2022. 
In March 2023 Mr Ss wife was in the car when she was hit by an uninsured driver so he had 
to make a claim on his own policy. 
Mr S has courtesy car cover on his policy and has paid for this benefit. Initially Mr S was told 
he could have a courtesy car, and then was told he couldnt. He says hes been back and 
forth with the insurer about this issue.
Mr S was told the repairs to his vehicle had been authorised but he couldnt be given a 
timescale for when the repairs would be completed. So Mr S requested a courtesy car again 
and was told he could have but it wouldnt be available until the end of April since there was 
no vehicle available. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the service. He had been without a car for eight weeks which has 
been inconvenient and caused him a great deal of stress and anxiety. So Mr S complained 
to QIC. 
QIC apologised for the delays in Mr S receiving a courtesy car. It said there was a 
nationwide problem within the industry  garages are experiencing delays in obtaining parts, 
and so customers are spending longer in garages courtesy cars, which has a knock-on 
effect to other customers wishing to utilise the service. QIC said it was unable to offer a 
rental car since there was no guarantee the costs of the same would be recovered. So it 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree. So he referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into things for him. He said he was upholding the complaint. He suggested QIC pay 
Mr S for loss of use at £6 per day from 22 March until 23 June 2023. He said based on the 
policy Mr S was entitled to a courtesy car once it has been decided the approved repairer 
could repair the car. Mr S wasnt provided with a replacement vehicle, so he was without his 
car from 22 March until his car was repaired on 23 June. Mr S accepted the investigators 
outcome. But QIC didnt. It said Mr S was without a vehicle but the issues the industry is 
facing havent been taken into account  such as difficulties in obtaining parts, customers 
spending longer in the garages courtesy cars, which then has a knock-on effect to other 
customers. QIC also said it wasnt aware Mr S had a vulnerable family member. 
Because QIC didnt agree, the complaint came to me to decide.  
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said;
Im issuing this as a provisional decision as Ive gone further than our investigator and Im 
proposing to require QIC to pay additional compensation to Mr S. 
In his evidence Mr S has provided details about what went on in his claim. I can see from the 
notes provided by QIC that Mr S contacted the insurer on numerous occasions regarding the 
courtesy car. And Mr S was told conflicting things about whether he could have one, and 
when it would be available. He chased it up many times, and in the end offered to hire a car 
himself. But was told QIC wouldnt pay for it. 
The courtesy car is defined as, a small hatchback that we arrange to lend you while your 
car is being repaired. We is the insurer, QIC. So Im satisfied provision of the courtesy car 
should have been arranged with the insurer. 
The courtesy car benefit says the following;
If you have an accident with another known driver, we will hire you a like-for-like car for the 
time it takes to repair your car, as long as:
We consider that the accident was not your fault;
The other driver has valid motor insurance; and 
You have your car repaired at one of our approved repairers
Under the section using an approved repairer it says, once we have decided that our 
approved repairer can repair your car, we will provide you with a courtesy car to use until the 
repairs are finished. 
The accident was reported on 11 March 2023, and as early as 14 March 2023 Mr S reported 
that his car wasnt drivable. Despite this the instruction was sent to the repairer as drivable 
and it took some further phone calls for Mr S to ensure the correct instruction had been 
passed on to the repairer. On 15 March 2023 QIC advised there wouldnt be a courtesy car 
available until the end of April. Mr S was told the policy said the courtesy car from the garage 
is only provided for the duration of the repairs subject to liability. And so Mr S was left 
without a vehicle. 
I have checked the policy and there doesnt appear to be any stipulation that the courtesy 
car is provided subject to availability, or that the garage is responsible for providing the car. 
As detailed above the policy says we and defines we as the insurer. Therefore I think it 
was reasonable for Mr S to expect QIC to provide him with a courtesy car for the duration of 
repairs. But it didnt do this. 
QIC said it wasnt aware Mr S had a family member with additional needs. On 17 March Mr 
S called QIC and explained he had a child with additional needs so required a car as soon 
as possible. He asked if he could hire his own car but was told it wasnt possible. So I dont 
agree QIC werent aware of Mr Ss personal circumstances. And I think QIC had a 
responsibility to ensure that when Mr S had told it of his additional needs that arrangements 
were made to obtain an alternative vehicle for him. QIC said there was a nationwide problem within the motor industry. And it was encountering 
problems with delays in obtaining parts and customers spending longer in courtesy cars. But 
thats not Mr Ss fault. He paid for a service and I think QIC needs to reasonably provide it on 
a timely basis. Especially given his personal circumstances. 
I can see Mr S was in regular contact with QIC and had started making a complaint. It seems 
to me that QICs communication with him was disjointed and of poor quality. 
Mr S has told this service about his frustration with QICs service. He has been promised 
calls back but didnt receive any. He was given conflicting information about the provision of 
the courtesy car. And it didnt take into account Mr Ss circumstances.
I dont think this is a good service from QIC and I can understand the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr S had in repeatedly calling QIC to very limited responses and 
progress over a period of three months. 
Mr S also made QIC aware of his personal circumstances which it didnt appear to take into 
account. Mr S explained he and his wife had to use taxis and trains to get around. I am 
taking into account the fact that Mr S has a vulnerable child and it was difficult for him to 
manage without access to a vehicle. So I think QIC need to pay Mr S a total of £300 
compensation for this.
Loss of use 
Mr S had been waiting for a courtesy car to be provided. And given the circumstances, Im 
not satisfied that QICs continued decision not to take steps to provide a vehicle for Mr S is 
fair. And so in this case I would have expected QIC to take some further action, either by 
hiring a car for Mr S or contacting its network of repairers and garages to see if more could 
be done. 
I can see our investigator awarded £6 per day for loss of use from March to June when he 
was without a vehicle. 
This services approach is to award loss of use at £10 per day. The policy says a courtesy 
car is provided once repairs are authorised and agreed. The repairs were authorised on 22 
March 2023 and the repairs completed on 23 June 2023. This is a period of 93 days so QIC 
should pay Mr S £930 for the period he was without a courtesy car.
Response to my previous decision
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they want me to 
consider. 
Mr S agreed with the outcome set out in my provisional decision. 
QIC didnt agree. It said there was an industry wide issue with car parts which occurred due 
to a number of global events that were outside its control. It said the issues affecting the car 
repair industry has been widely reported and should be taken into consideration with my 
decision. 
QIC accept the policy Mr S entered into had provision for a courtesy car. As explained above 
there is nothing to say the provision of the car is subject to availability. And while I can see 
the issues affecting the motor industry were outside of QICs control I dont think the action it 
took was reasonable given the circumstances. Mr S offered to hire a car but QIC didnt agree to this. And I cant see that it tried to offer Mr S a solution  such as contacting its network of 
repairers or garages to see if more could be done.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again my position has not altered.
So for the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding this complaint and have set out below 
what QIC need to do to put things right. 
Putting things right
QIC Europe Ltd should;
Pay Mr S £930 for his loss of use
Pay Mr S a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Limited to do what Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman