DRN-3706807
The complaint
Mr M complains that delays and problems with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
meant he didnt qualify for an incentive after switching his current account. 
What happened
On 11 December 2020 Mr M switched bank accounts to Virgin Money. Mr M has told us he 
intended to take advantage of a promotion that wouldve given him complimentary bottles of 
wine. 
To qualify for the wine, Mr M had to apply for the new account online, complete a full bank 
account switch and closed the old account. Mr M also had to download and register for 
Virgin Moneys mobile banking app and transfer £1,000 into a linked savings account, both 
within 31 days of the account opening date. 
Mr M was able to register for the mobile app and online banking during December 2020. But 
Mr M has explained that he doesnt have mobile reception throughout his home which 
makes it difficult to log into Virgin Moneys online banking facility. Mr M also explains that the 
mobile banking app doesnt work for him. 
On 12 January 2021 Mr M called Virgin Money to explain he was still experiencing problems 
using online banking and that he needed to make a transfer to qualify for the incentive. The 
call handler tried to transfer Mr M to the Internet Banking team. 
Mr M spoke with Virgin Money again on 13 January 2021 and explained that hed been cut 
off after waiting on hold to speak with the relevant team on 12 January 2021. No one had 
called back. Mr M explained repeated information about difficulties he was experiencing with 
the mobile app and online banking facility. Mr M also explained he was unable to transfer 
funds as required for the incentive. 
There were technical problems that delayed the transfer but it was completed on 14 January 
2021. But by that date, Mr M no longer qualified for the incentive. Mr M complained and 
Virgin Money paid him £70 to apologise for the difficulties on 13 and 14 January 2021 but it 
didnt offer to honour the incentive. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint but thought Virgin Money had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had 31 days to register for the Virgin Money mobile app and transfer £1,000 in order to 
qualify for the complimentary wine incentive. Whilst Mr M experienced problems using the 
mobile app due to reception issues, he was able to successfully register within the 31 days 
qualifying period. 
Mr M has explained that whilst he was able to log in to online banking once during 
December 2020, the two stage sign in process required use of his mobile app. And due to 
the reception problems, that wasnt possible more than once during the period. As a result, 
Mr M called Virgin Money back on 12 January 2021 to complete the transfer. 
This call took place on day 32 of the account being open and one day after the promotional 
period ended. Whilst I appreciate there was only one day in it, that means Mr M didnt 
contact Virgin Money to complete the transfer until the promotional period had ended. 
I appreciate there were issues processing the transfer from 12 January 2021 but as they 
came about after the qualifying promotional period had already ended, Im satisfied they 
didnt impact whether Mr M qualified for the wine or not. 
Mr M has told us he waited until 12 January 2021 to contact Virgin Money because of the 
Christmas period and difficulties getting in touch with the bank. But whilst Virgin Moneys 
hours were no doubt limited at times during the festive period, Im satisfied it was available 
during the period leading up to 11 January 2021. Had the transfer been completed during 
that time, Im satisfied Mr M wouldve qualified for the incentive. But, as noted above, Mr M 
contacted Virgin Money the day after the promotional period ended. And that means he 
didnt qualify for the wine. 
Virgin Money paid Mr M £70 to apologise for problems he experienced with the transfer he 
tried to instruct on 12 January 2021. Im satisfied thats fair in all the circumstances so Im 
not telling Virgin Money to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman