DRN-1360841
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc didnt make it clear to him, when he took out a 
loan, that the interest charged would be front-loaded, meaning he had to pay a higher 
amount when settling the loan early than he thought he should have.
What happened
Mr M took out a loan in 2019 for £15,000 repayable over 60 months. Interest of just over 
£5,000 was added, resulting in monthly repayments of just over £335. Mr M asked to settle 
the loan early after having made eight repayments. Hitachi provided an early settlement 
figure of just over £13,800.
Mr M was unhappy with this figure  he thought as hed already paid back about £2,700 the 
settlement figure should be lower than that. Hitachi explained that the interest applied to his 
loan was front-loaded  in other words Mr M would be paying more in interest each month 
at the beginning of the loan, with the interest being paid reducing over time (as more of the 
monthly payment goes towards paying off the capital). Mr M was unhappy this wasnt made 
clear to him when he took out the loan, so he brought his complaint to us. 
However, our investigator thought Hitachi had made it clear enough to Mr M about how 
much interest hed have to pay. And he also provided Mr M with a calculation  supplied by 
Hitachi - showing how much of his £335 monthly repayment was used to reduce his loan 
balance, and how much each month was applied against interest. But Mr M remained 
unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M took out his loan, Hitachis loan documentation made it clear how much interest 
was going to be charged over the lifetime of the loan  just over £5,000. That much is not in 
dispute. And the loan agreement, under Terms of Lending at point 4, Early Settlement 
confirms that Mr M is entitled to settle the loan early and he may receive an interest rebate. 
The relevant parts say as follows:
you can settle this agreement early at any timeWe will take account of any 
rebate to which you may be entitled under the Consumer Credit Act 1974
So, put simply, Hitachi needed to apply the calculation set out in the above Act when 
calculating Mr Ms early settlement interest rebate. And here, Im satisfied they did do this. 
Our investigator has already supplied Mr M with a breakdown showing how his loan balance 
effectively decreased month on month, taking account of this early repayment calculation. 
However, Hitachi werent required to provide this calculation to Mr M before he took out his 
loan.
I can understand how Mr M may have been inadvertently misled by one of the comments in 
our investigators view, which suggested the £5,000 interest would have been divided 
equally between the 60 months when calculating any rebate. This is incorrect, and I regret 
any confusion caused. And Ive read Mr Ms response to the view in which he compares 
loans provided by other banks, at lower interest rates, and uses the investigators (incorrect) 
interest figure to reach what he believes is a fairer early settlement figure.
 
However, it isnt my role to decide if the interest rate applied to Mr Ms loan was fair, or if he 
could have got a better rate had he shopped around. All I can do here is say whether Hitachi 
acted reasonably and fairly, for instance by following its terms and conditions, and the 
relevant legislation, when calculating Mr Ms early settlement figure. And for the reasons Ive 
set out above, Im satisfied Hitachi did this. So, on the basis I think Hitachi acted correctly 
and fairly, I wont be upholding this complaint, and dont require Hitachi to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman