DRN-3398866
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money he 
made to a third party for hiking trips and equipment. He considers the payments he made 
were part of a scam.
What happened
Between December 2019 and September 2020, Mr F made multiple payments to a third 
party - who I will refer to as B - for hiking trips and equipment. The payments ranged from 
£10 to £1,000. He had found B on a social media forum and went away on trips with the 
owner of B and received some of the equipment purchased. But many trips were cancelled 
or postponed due to Covid. Mr F attempted to recover his money from B  with limited 
success. In January 2021 Mr F approached Halifax to ask for a refund of the disputed 
transactions.
 
Halifax did not accept Mr Fs claim as he had gone on a few local trips with B previously 
without an issue. It considered the seller was offering a legitimate service at the time Mr F 
made the bookings and therefore it was a dispute between Mr F and the seller  which does 
not come under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM). It accepted it had taken some 
time to investigate his concerns  so made a payment of £50 to apologise for the poor 
service and cover his call costs.
Mr F says another person who has also lost money to B, received a full reimbursement from 
the same banking group. Mr F says the only difference is that he previously met B.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He considered the complaint was a civil 
dispute. He also said that, had Halifax spoken to Mr F about the transactions, no scam 
would have been exposed as Mr F was making payments to someone he knew and had 
received goods and services from previously.
Mr F did not agree. As the case couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
I dont know the finer details of the case Mr F refers to where a refund was made - or 
whether that case even came to this service - but each case is judged on its own merits and 
what may appear (on the face of it) to be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire 
not to be the case.
I am very sorry to hear about the problem Mr F now faces. He paid money in good faith to B 
and the provision of its good and services fell short of what he reasonably expected. Mr F 
has faced difficulties in trying to get all his money back from B and some of the actions are 
hardly suggestive of good business practice on its part. Hes tried several routes to obtain 
redress, and whilst I understand he has received some money back from B, hes been left 
bearing the majority of the cost of putting matters right. This is an unjust and highly 
frustrating situation and I can appreciate why Mr F feels so strongly about it. 
Nonetheless, in deciding this case I am considering Halifaxs role in the matter, not the role 
of B. This consideration primarily hinges on whether Halifax has acted in line with its 
obligations to Mr F, or whether it needs to do more.
Having thought very carefully about Halifaxs actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Halifax should reimburse him and I have explained why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Halifax made the 
payments, it was complying with Mr Fs instructions. At the time, Mr F wanted to pay B and 
there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details.
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the consumer authorised the payment. 
Was Mr F the victim of a scam? 
Its clear that Mr F did receive some goods and service and he has also received some of his 
money back from B. The period in question was at the height of Covid and its consequential 
travel related restrictions  so its understandable that trips got cancelled and rearranged. I 
appreciate that Mr F says he discovered that bookings hadnt been made by B - but 
ultimately Mr F did receive some money back. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, 
who more often than not, once in receipt of a victims money, will not send anything at all 
and then no longer be contactable. This seems to me to be more of a sign of a failing 
business. Its clear the agreement Mr F entered into with B did not go as planned, but based 
on what Ive seen, I cant be as sure as I would need to be that B set out with an intent to 
defraud Mr F.
So, Ive gone on to consider what that means with regards to what action Halifax shouldve 
taken and whether I can fairly ask Halifax to refund Mr F.
Is Mr F entitled to a refund under the CRM Code? 
Halifax is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Code 
(the CRM Code). The Code requires Halifax to refund customers who have been the victims 
of a scam, with some limited exceptions. The Code covers Authorised Push Payments, 
which is the payment method Mr F used, and it says: 
DS1(2) 
(a) APP scam  Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across 
Faster Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a customer in 
accordance with regulation 67 of the PSRs where (i) The customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes, but which were in fact fraudulent. 
DS2(2) This Code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
There are further definitions provided in the Code, but Ive included these sections as they 
are specifically relevant to Mr Fs case. The Code is quite clear that it does not apply to 
payments that werent made as the result of a scam or fraud. 
And as I cant safely conclude that Mr F was the victim of a scam, I cant apply the Code in 
this case or ask Halifax to refund Mr F under the Code. But I have gone on to consider 
whether Halifax couldve or shouldve done more to prevent the payments being made in the 
first place.
Should Halifax have prevented Mr F from making the payments? 
As Ive said above, the starting point is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
But there is also an obligation on Halifax to be on the lookout for, and to protect its 
customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring 
accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, I would expect Halifax to intervene and attempt 
to prevent losses for the customer.
Ive thought about the transactions that are in dispute and whether there were any reasons 
why it would have been fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances to have expected 
Halifax to have double checked payment instructions with Mr F before allowing the payments 
to be made. Having done so, I dont think the activity on Mr Fs accounts ought to have 
alerted the bank that something was wrong, and Im not persuaded that Halifax has missed 
obvious opportunities where it would have been prudent to further intervene. 
As Ive explained, Id expect Halifax to be on the lookout for out of character or unusual 
transactions and to be alert to circumstances where its customer might be at risk of financial 
harm. But at the same time, Halifax cant be involved in every transaction. Ive looked 
carefully at Mr Fs account statements and the pattern of spending across his accounts did 
not stand out as particularly out of character, especially as the transactions in dispute took 
place over a long period of time and were surrounded by many genuine transactions in 
between. I wouldnt expect Halifax to have intervened in the day to day running of Mr Fs 
accounts to the extent that would have been required to discover the situation he is now in. 
Even if it had intervened, I do think it more likely than not that a scam wouldnt have been 
uncovered as Mr F had received some equipment and services from the payee.
I note Mr F also complained that he did not get an answer to his claim in a timely manner. 
Halifax has acknowledged its delays and paid Mr F £50 in recognition of this. I can see it 
took a few months for Halifax to provide an answer to Mr F, but I do think Halifaxs payment is fair and reasonable compensation in recognition of any distress and inconvenience 
caused. I realise this must have been a stressful time for Mr F not knowing whether he was 
getting his money back. But I do feel that Mr F has already been fairly compensated by 
Halifax for this. So, Im not making any further award.
I appreciate that Mr F will be very disappointed, but having very carefully considered 
everything presented by all parties involved in the case, Im persuaded this appears to be a 
case of B, potentially failing to honour its agreement with Mr F, by not providing all the good 
and services Mr F expected and I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund Mr F.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman