DRN-4205034
The complaint
Mr A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited has not met its obligations 
in regard to two transactions he made on his credit card to get out of three Timeshare type 
agreements.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr A was talking with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services (which I will call Firm C). Mr A says Firm C told him it could get 
him out of his three timeshare type agreements hed previously entered into. And he says 
that if it didnt do so within twelve months hed get a full refund. So Mr A paid Firm C a total 
of £6000 in payments in May and August 2020 using his American Express Services Europe 
Limited credit card (Amex for short) to fund these transactions.
Twelve months passed and Mr A spoke to Firm C. It pointed to the Pandemic and asked for 
more time, to which Mr A says he agreed. In August 2021 Mr A asked for his money back 
but Firm C pointed to two of the three timeshares having been already relinquished. And a 
third timeshare belonging to Mr A was then relinquished in November 2021 by Firm C. So 
Firm C told Mr A it wasnt going to refund him his £6000. So Mr A took his dispute to Amex.
In April 2022 Amex wrote to Mr A saying that it wasnt going to refund him the money hed 
paid Firm C. It gave two main reasons for this, firstly the presence of a Payment Facilitator 
within the transaction and secondly that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by Firm C. It also concluded that there werent any other 
reasons for it to refund Mr A and that it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr A remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that Amex hadnt treated Mr A unfairly. But 
Mr A didnt agree so this decision comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm C, or any other parties 
involved directly with Mr As timeshare arrangements. This is because these companies 
arent within the jurisdiction of this service. This decision is solely about what Amex did or 
didnt do in relation to its obligations in relation to Mr A. And it should be remembered that 
Amex is only involved in this issue as a result of its managing Mr As credit card account 
which he used to make these transactions to Firm C, it wasnt the party that offered 
timeshare relinquishment services to Mr A. In essence the tests I must consider in relation to 
Amex are whether the transaction itself was made correctly, and whether Amexs position in 
regard to Chargeback and Mr As Section 75 claim to it under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
was fair.
Mr A doesnt contest that he made the transactions originally, or that they were applied 
incorrectly to his account. Ive considered the transactions themselves and Im satisfied 
Amex didnt do anything wrong in processing them or allocating those amounts to his 
account.
could Amex challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr A does 
here, Amex can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a right, but 
this Service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time limits and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think Amex couldve challenged the 
payments on the basis Mr A didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive 
already set out.
There are rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be raised to challenge disputed 
transactions. And Amex only has to raise a chargeback dispute when it thinks such a 
chargeback has a reasonable prospect of success. Ive considered the sequence of events 
here and I can see that Mr A didnt approach Amex until November 2021. As a 
consequence, considering the relevant dates of events here I think Mr A was out of time and 
as such any attempted chargeback, on balance, would have been unsuccessful to my mind. 
So I dont think Amex has treated Mr A unfairly in regard to chargeback.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974? 
Mr A used his credit card with Amex for these transactions. This means Amex has certain 
responsibilities to Mr A which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr A to hold Amex 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm C, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is reasonably relied upon and transpires 
to be untrue leading to detriment. But it needs to be remembered that this is in essence a 
like claim to that Mr A would have against Firm C through Legal action and Amex is entitled 
to consider it in that light.
It is clear that Mr A is very much of the opinion that Firm C should refund him. But before 
deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some requirements 
set out in the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. These 
are to do with the financial limit requirements and the relevant relationship between parties 
(Debtor, Creditor, Supplier-often referred to as DCS). Im satisfied that these transactions 
meet the financial limits requirements of the Act.
Amex has pointed to the presence of a Payment Facilitator in the transaction as a reason 
why it cant be held liable. However this services approach to the involvement of Payment 
Facilitators in such transactions is that they do not break the DCS arrangement. Full details 
of this approach are available in our decisions on the matter. Amexs position here is not 
persuasive, however this issue isnt material in this decision for reasons Ill now explain.
So was there breach of contract or material misrepresentation?
Amex has pointed to the contract Mr A agreed to with Firm C and its terms with regard to 
how refunds are requested. It sets out specifically that after twelve months if Mr A wished to 
bring the agreement to an end he had to do so by email. Ive not seen any such email 
request by Mr A to Firm C until after two of his three timeshares had already been relinquished. So clearly hed received a significant and sizeable part of the service that the 
contract sought to provide, prior to his requesting the refund. 
Mr A has pointed to phone calls he had with Firm C between May 2021 and August 2021. 
But by his own admission he makes clear he was willing for the contract to continue after 
those calls due to what Firm C said in those calls. So I dont think this shows the contract 
had been formerly concluded in the prescribed manner in these calls.
Mr A says he only got out of the timeshare because he spoke to the Timeshare company 
directly and thus Firm Cs work wasnt what got him out of the timeshare but rather his and 
his wifes doctors efforts on the matter. However the contract he agreed with Firm C says 
there is no right to refund if you have failed to make payments on time or you have spoken 
directly to your resort owners or any other third-party company regarding relinquishment. So 
notwithstanding my earlier comments it would seem he had also voided any right to a refund 
that he had, by talking to the timeshare provider directly under the express terms of the 
contract. So this is another reason why Amex hasnt treated him unfairly by not refunding 
him.
It seems from what Mr A says he was told to talk to the timeshare provider directly by a 
Legal Services business which had an arrangement with Firm C, despite this being contrary 
to the terms of the agreement he signed with Firm C. This might be or might not be the case, 
but it doesnt mean Amex should be the party to refund him for the amount he paid for these 
timeshare relinquishment services. This is because Amex is entitled to rely on the terms of 
the contract in defence of the like claim Mr A is making to it.
Mr A may argue that when he did email asking for a refund he was still in one of the 
Timeshares, which was later relinquished in November 2021. Notwithstanding my earlier 
arguments about Mr As rights to a refund under the contract and the contractual position 
after Mr A talked directly to the timeshare company, the wording of the contract doesnt 
include an approach to refunds in the event of multiple timeshare contracts being sought to 
be relinquished and some having been relinquished and others not having been at the point 
of the refund request. I can see that Firm C emailed a response to Mr A saying no refund 
was due. And I can see it continued to work on the matter until relinquishment was achieved 
on the last timeshare in November 2021. Ive not seen any meaningful or persuasive 
discussion between the parties regarding this part relinquishment/potential part refund issue 
between August and November 2021. Its important to remember that Amex is liable to a 
like claim here as to that Mr A would have against Firm C. And that Amex has to consider 
Mr As S75 claim to it on the basis of whether there has been any or breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
It is clear Mr A paid £6000 to get out of three timeshares and that is what happened and 
Firm C was at least in part responsible for that delivery of the purchased service. So Im not 
persuaded hes lost out here. It is not for me to decide on what a Court would have decided 
in this instance regarding a claim by Mr A against Firm C. However Im not persuaded Amex 
has treated Mr A unfairly in its consideration of the matter. I say this because Mr A hasnt 
been able to put forward persuasive arguments about which actual term of the contract that 
Firm C breached. And Amex has point out to this service the issue of Mr A apparently 
breaching the contract by talking directly to the Timeshare provider and thus potentially 
voiding any right to any refund that hed had. And it has pointed to his email asking for a 
refund as coming after partial relinquishment. So overall Im not persuaded that Amex has 
treated Mr A unfairly by not refunding the money Mr A paid to Firm C.
For the sake of completeness Ill deal with some of the key arguments Mr A has made as I 
see them. Hes pointed to calls he had with Firm C and contact hes had with the legal services business and wondered if these have been properly considered. Ive considered 
them carefully and dealt with these arguments as above. 
Mr A says they didnt get his relinquishment done within the twelve months. This is true, but 
the contract he had with Firm C didnt automatically end after twelve months and it set out 
the requirements of getting the refund and Mr A didnt fulfil these until after hed had two of 
his three timeshares relinquished. Mr A says its Amexs job to get his money back. Simply it 
is not. Its role here is to process the original transaction properly, and once hed raised his 
dispute with Firm C to Amex, for it to consider chargeback and Section 75 fairly. And I 
consider it has done that here.
All in all, having considered all of Mr As arguments Im not persuaded hes lost out because 
of how Amex treated him. Its position regarding Payment Facilitators is contrary to this 
services position on the matter. Nevertheless its arguments around breach and 
misrepresentation are solid and persuasive to my mind. And having considered everything 
here Im satisfied Amex hasnt treated Mr A unfairly. So Mr As complaint about Amex is 
successful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr A wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position and he clearly feels that Firm C hasnt treated him fairly and possibly other 
parties also. But this isnt Amexs fault. And considering the obligations Amex has, Im 
satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him what he paid Firm C.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited. It has 
nothing further to do in relation to this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman