DRN-2137975
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD, as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Ms B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card, taken out in December 2002. 
The PPI was taken out in a store, at the same time as the store card.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that he felt that had Ms B been given
better information about the policy its likely she wouldve decided the policy was not value 
for money for her based on her circumstances at the time. AXA disagreed so the complaint 
was passed on to me.
I sent a provisional decision on why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold on 31 July 2020 
saying: 
I currently dont think the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA says this policy was taken out in store and have provided Ms Bs credit agreement. This 
agreement includes a reference to a branch, and there is nothing else to suggest this policy 
was taken out by any other means. So, based on what Ive seen I think its likely this policy 
was taken out in store. 
The agreement includes a separate section for PPI where the customer is required to sign if 
they wish to take out this policy  and I can see Ms B has signed in this section in addition to 
signing to agree to the credit. Ms B said the PPI was added without her knowledge or 
consent. There is no a recording of this meeting or a lot of other evidence about what the 
sales representative may have said at the time, but I think the application form makes it clear 
that PPI is a separate and additional product  and Ms B agreed to take it out. I think if Ms B 
was unaware of what she was signing for or hadnt been told anything about the PPI its 
likely she wouldve questioned this before signing to agree to take out the policy. 
So, based on the information I have seen, I think its more likely than not that AXA made it 
clear the PPI was optional and Ms B chose to take it out, knowing it was something she 
couldve said no to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint on the basis that Ms B said she had 6 months full, 
followed by 6 months half sick pay from her employers. So, he felt that in her situation she 
had sufficient sick pay from work and so the policy did not provide a useful enough benefit to 
her, and had she been given all the information about the policy she wouldnt have decided 
to take it out. However, AXA disputed this on the basis that it felt that Ms B would not have 
had such generous sick pay from her employers having only been employed with them for 
two years. 
Ive thought carefully about this and have considered what we know of employees working 
for Ms Bs employer and their sick pay entitlements. I also asked Ms B to supply some 
evidence of her sick pay from the time, but she has not been able to supply this. So, without 
evidence to support what     
Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - but these points dont change my current 
opinion on this case.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or evidence they wished me 
to consider by 30 August 2020. Neither party responded with any additional information for 
me to consider. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither of the parties responded with anything which has made me think differently to what I 
set out in my provisional decision. So based on my previous findings, and in the absence of
any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this complaint.
My final decision
I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman