DRN-2032657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited handled their 
claim on their home insurance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In 2014 they made a claim for 
subsidence. Lloyds contractors attended their property to inspect the damage but concluded 
that the cracks to the property werent caused by subsidence. So didnt take the claim 
further.
In 2016 Mr and Mrs H contacted Lloyds again as they said the cracks had worsened. Lloyds 
sent out another contractor who said further monitoring was required to determine the cause. 
After a period of monitoring Lloyds accepted the claim as subsidence. It said that it had been 
caused by water discharging directly into the ground near the structure, rather than being 
carried away by a soakaway. It recommended the pipe was repaired and the removal of 
some vegetation in the area.
Mr and Mrs H arranged for this work to be completed. And Following this Lloyds arranged 
further monitoring to make sure the structure had stabilised, before repair work could take 
place.
In February 2018 the agreed period of monitoring was complete and Lloyds were satisfied 
that the structure had stabilised. 
After a meeting at the property in March 2018, it was agreed that a specialist contractor 
would need to carry out the repairs to the building, due to its age and unusual make up. 
Lloyds secured a specialist in clay lump structures and they put together a scope of works 
for the repairs.
After this point, progress was slow due to a number of delays from both sides. In August 
2019 Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint with Lloyds. They felt that the claim had been too 
slow to progress. They also had concerns around the suitability of those appointed to carry 
out the work, as they felt they didnt have the relevant expertise. 
Lloyds upheld Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It accepted there had been avoidable delays and 
offered £350 to make up for this. However it didnt agree that the contractors it had 
appointed werent suited to carry out the work. I also offered Mr and Mrs H three options as 
a settlement:
A cash settlement for the remainder of the work so Mr and Mrs H could get their own 
contractors to complete it.
Mr and Mrs H could arrange for their own surveyor to inspect the property and scope for 
necessary repairs. This would be at their own cost unless it changed the outcome of the 
claim.
Lloyds could arrange for a second independent specialist to attend and assess the 
damage.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with this response. They said they had significant health and 
safety concerns about the part of the property that had been repaired. They said their own 
contractor had confirmed that there was still subsidence affecting the property, so they felt 
the repairs had been inadequate, They said they want a full investigation of the underlying 
issues causing the subsidence by an appropriate expert as they felt it was still affecting the 
foundations of the building. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she agreed there had 
been some avoidable delays to the claim but felt that the £350 compensation offered was 
sufficient to make up for this.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be 
revived by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it is important to note that Lloyds has only given this service permission to review 
matters up until the date it responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  in October 2019. So, 
while I am aware there have been further developments with the claim since, I wont be 
making any comments on anything after this date. 
Throughout the claim and complaint Mr and Mrs H have raised a number of different 
complaint points. As this is an informal service I havent responded to each one, only those I 
consider to be most relevant. However I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that I have 
considered everything they have provided when reaching my decision. 
Delays
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with how long it has taken for their claim to progress. They first 
raised issues in 2014 and feel that if these concerns had been addressed properly at the 
time, the damage wouldnt have worsened and taken so long to repair. 
Claim in 2014 
When the claim was first raised Lloyds sent out a contractor who concluded the damage to 
their property wasnt subsidence. So at this point no further action was taken. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustrations, as the damage worsened after this, and 
subsidence has since been confirmed. I have considered Lloyds actions at the time, to 
determine if it acted fairly. I can see Lloyds investigated the claim in 2014 and sent an expert 
to inspect the damage. At this stage, the expert concluded there wasnt enough evidence to 
confirm that subsidence was the cause. So I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by taking no 
further action at the time, based on its experts conclusion.
Further, Mr and Mrs H didnt experience any further problems in the two years that followed. 
And when they did contact Lloyds again, its expert confirmed that the change in the damage 
was only minor. So based on this, I cant see that Mr and Mrs H have been impacted by 
subsidence not being identified in the initial visit. Progress of claim since 2016
In 2016 Mr and Mrs H contacted Lloyds again to say the cracks in their property had 
worsened. Again, Lloyds sent an expert to inspect the damage and this time they said they 
suspected subsidence was the cause.
I can see that between this point and October 2019, progress on the claim has been slow. I 
have considered whether any of these delays could have been avoided by Lloyds.
When subsidence is inspected, it is usual that a period of monitoring is carried out. So work 
on mitigation and repairs wont proceed straight away. In this case monitoring started 
straight after the first visit. Once this was complete, a site visit was arranged in May 2017 
and the cause of the subsidence was confirmed. After this Mr and Mrs H confirmed they 
would arrange to get the mitigation work completed. And in June 2017confirmed this had 
been done. 
Following this further monitoring was required in order to ensure the mitigation work had 
been successful and the property had now stabilised. This was extended, on the request of 
Mr and Mrs H, which meant it was completed in February 2018. Up until this point, Im 
satisfied that work proceeded as I would expect.
After this a site visit was arranged and a scope of works was put together. However I can 
see this took some time for Lloyds to receive and approve and I cant see there was a good 
reason for this. This delayed the claim by about two months. I think this could have been 
avoided.
Works were due to start in August 2018 however the contractor found ants in the wall when 
they attended site. They then had to arrange for pest control to remove the infestation. This 
meant that the work couldnt start straight away and delayed the repairs. However it was 
necessary to address the infestation before work could begin, so I cant hold Lloyds 
responsible for this delay. 
Once this was completed work was due to start again in December of that year, however this 
was cancelled by Mr and Mrs H. The works began at the start of 2019 however the 
contractors reported issues with access to the property, as this wasnt being allowed for 
consecutive days at a time. This made the work difficult to complete.
Over the months that followed progress on repairs was slow. There were a number of times 
when appointments were cancelled and planned work delayed, but from looking at 
correspondence and file notes from Lloyds, I can see that most of these were due to Mr and 
Mrs H being away or unavailable, so I cant hold Lloyds responsible for these delays. 
So while I agree progress on the claim has been slow, I dont think all the delays could have 
been avoided by Lloyds. Subsidence claims require periods of monitoring, which means 
claims take time to resolve. Further there were long periods of time when Mr and Mrs H 
delayed the repair work. And while I understand why this may have been necessary, I cant 
hold Lloyds accountable for these delays. 
However I can see that after the site visit in May 2018, it took a long time for Lloyds 
contractor to put together a scope of works and for this to be approved. So I agree this did 
add to the length of the claim and could have been avoided. Lloyds has offered Mr and Mrs 
H £350 compensation to make up for delays on the claim and I think this this is sufficient to 
make up for the distress and inconvenience this will have caused them.
Concerns about work completedMr and Mrs H have said they arent happy with the work carried out by Lloyds contractors. 
They dont feel the contractors have the required expertise and have concerns around the 
safety of the structure as they feel problems with the foundations havent been addressed.
Lloyds has said it has taken these concerns onboard and appointed a specialist in the type 
of building to complete the repairs. While Mr and Mrs H have expressed concerns about the 
qualifications and ability of the specialist, I can see they are a specialist in the clay lump 
builds. And Ive not seen any evidence to suggest the contractors werent suitable to carry 
out the work. 
Further, Lloyds specialist have carried out regular site visits and produced detailed reports 
with their findings. And Lloyds has followed the recommendations in these reports  along 
with results from ongoing monitoring. So Im satisfied Lloyds has taken appropriate steps to 
ensure the repairs are suitable. 
However I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concerns about ongoing problems with the building. 
Particularly as they have appointed their own expert who has suggested there may be 
further problems that havent been addressed.
Their expert concluded:
We would suggest at this point that a structural engineer and a company that deals with 
under pinning be engaged to assess the full extent of the issue.
In its final response Lloyds provided three options to Mr and Mrs H, that I have listed above. 
This includes the options for a survey to be carried out  either by Lloyds or by someone 
selected and arranged by Mr and Mrs H. As this is inline with the recommendations from 
their expert, I cant see what more Lloyds could do to address the problem. If Mr and Mrs H 
choose to have a surveyor attend and inspect the property then they will be able to identify if 
there are any further underlying issues. And work would then be completed to address 
these. 
So while I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concerns, I think Lloyds has done enough to ensure 
these are addressed. So I wont ask Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman