DRN-3409432
The complaint
Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC unlawfully moved money in and out of his current account 
for child maintenance payments.  
What happened
On 23 November 2020 the Child Maintenance Service (CMS) issued an interim lump sum 
deduction order for £7,030 to Barclays. This ordered the bank, amongst other things, to 
ensure Mr As account balance did not reduce below £7,030 and to await a final order. To 
comply with these instructions Barclays transferred this amount out of Mr As account into an 
internal Barclays account. On receipt of the final lump sum deduction order Barclays 
returned the amount to Mr As account and then made the payment of £7,030 to the CMS. 
This was on 22 January 2021. 
On 14 June 2021 the CMS issued a regular deduction order to collect weekly child 
maintenance from Mr As account from 24 June 2021 onwards. This should have stopped on 
2 September 2021 when Barclays received a lapse order, but the bank sent two additional 
weeks money in error. It has accepted this, and it refunded these payments on 26 October 
2021. But it explained all other transactions were made lawfully and to comply with the 
orders issued by the CMS.
Our investigator found Barclays had made no error when it made the initial and ongoing 
payments to the CMS up until 2 September 2021. She explained there was a statutory 
requirement for Barclays to comply with the instructions set out in the deduction orders. She 
found there was no evidence that the banks mistaken payments for two weeks had caused 
Mr A any financial loss now that the amounts had been refunded by the bank. She noted 
Barclays had since offered Mr A £150 compensation to recognise that its service, timeliness 
and communication when Mr A got in touch about the payments was poor, but Mr A had 
declined this offer.   
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for a final decision before he pursued legal 
action against Barclays. He said the bank had previously told him they had received a phone 
call from the CMS instructing it to send the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I am satisfied the bank acted on the receipt of deduction orders, not a phone call from the 
CMS. The deduction orders were made by the CMS under section 32A (regular orders) 32E 
(interim orders) and section 32F (final orders) of the Child Support Act 1991. It is a statutory 
requirement that Barclays comply with the instructions set out in the orders. I do not find that 
it did anything other than this. 
Debiting and re-crediting Mr As account with the £7,030 was a practical and so I find a fair 
and reasonable way for it to ensure Mr A maintained that level of funds until the final order 
was issued - and this was one thing the interim order stipulated. The orders do not require 
notice to be given to the accountholder before they are acted upon.
It is not in dispute that Barclays took two extra weeks of the regular deductions in September 
2021, but it accepted this and refunded the payments in full to Mr A. I have seen no 
evidence that its error caused any other financial loss for Mr A that the bank needs to put 
right. Barclays has offered £150 compensation for its poor communication and for how long 
it took to confirm the timing of the refund. Mr A declined this, but he should now contact the 
bank if he wishes to accept it as we have reached the end of our complaint process. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman