DRN-2011818
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) sold to them in 1997.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2020, where I concluded that I was minded to not 
uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. 
In summary, I found:
 Mr C and Mrs C arranged a secure loan with Nationwide in November 1997 and at the 
same time took out an PPI policy that covered Mrs C only against accidents, sickness 
and unemployment. They cancelled the policy in 1998 and the loan ended in or before 
2004.
 Our adjudicator initially upheld Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and they concluded Mrs C 
was not eligible to claim benefit due to the number of hours she says she worked (less 
than 16 hours a week). But I was minded to conclude that she was eligible to claim 
benefit based on what she had declared on the loan application form and also from what 
Nationwide says she told them about her employment circumstances at the time of sale. 
Although I couldnt be sure what Mrs Cs circumstances were, I concluded it was more 
likely than not she was eligible for the cover provided by the PPI policy.
 I was able to review sales documentation and also consider both parties recollections. 
When I saw the secure loan application form and how PPI was presented as optional, I 
felt Mr C and Mrs C was given a choice to have PPI. I concluded Nationwide more likely 
than not gave them a choice to have the cover. 
 I was unable to conclude that Mr C and Mrs C would have necessarily declined the 
policy if the information they had received would have been any clearer, based on Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time.
 I concluded that I was minded to not uphold their complaint and invited comments on this 
from both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives responded on 17 June 2020 and wanted to clarify who 
was covered by the PPI policy. Our service clarified that Mrs C was covered only by the 
policy and that I would ensure this was made clear in the final decision. 
Our service then sent another letter out to both parties on 24 June 2020, reminding them 
that any further comments or new information should be submitted by 12 July 2020.
Nationwide responded on 25 June 2020 to confirm they had nothing further to add. Mr C and 
Mrs Cs representatives did not provide any further comments on the complaint at this stage.
As neither party has put forward any new points or additional evidence to consider further, 
I see no reason to depart from my findings and conclusion given within the provisional 
decision. So, I conclude that the policy was not mis-sold and I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs 
Cs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint and I do not make any 
award against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman