DRN-3810496
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and the service they 
received after they made RBS aware they were in short-term financial difficulty which 
impacted their ability to pay their loan account.
Mr C has represented both himself and Mrs C throughout the complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, Ive referred to the actions taken, and comments made, by both as Mr C 
throughout the decision.
What happened
In the summer of 2020, RBS provided Mr C with a loan of £50,000 payable over a 10-year 
term to provide additional funds to help complete his property build. But the following year, 
due to issues with the builder instructed to complete the building works, Mr Cs build was 
delayed, meaning he was unable to draw down the next available part of his mortgage 
funding the build overall.
So, Mr C took legal action against the builder stating hed been victim of fraud. And at the 
same time, he contacted RBS to make them aware of his situation as he had no means of 
paying his monthly payment towards the loan.
RBS agreed to a Financial Hardship Plan (FHP) in June 2021, where it was agreed that Mr 
C would pay a token £10 each month for the next three months while interest on the account 
was frozen. But RBS explained arrears would continue to build during this time as Mr C 
wasnt paying his contractual monthly repayment, and that this would be reported to his 
credit file. Mr C accepted these terms. And a further three-month FHP plan was agreed in 
September, as Mr Cs financial situation hadnt improved.
This second FHP ran out, and Mr C spoke to RBS to request a third plan. But RBS explained 
they were unable to provide this as Mr C was now six months in arrears and so, he didnt 
qualify. So, they directed Mr C to seek free debt management advice while placing the 
account on a 30-day hold. Mr C sought this advice, but hes said he was referred back to 
RBS to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
In February 2022, Mr C spoke to RBS and submitted an income and expenditure report in 
the hope of agreeing a way of consolidating his outstanding loan and overdraft balances 
together. Mr C also submitted a proposal to take additional lending to fund the cost of a 
caravan to reduce his living costs and so improve his affordability. But RBS rejected both of 
these proposals, as Mr C hadnt shown an affordability to repay his outstanding debts. Mr C 
was unhappy with this and wanted to challenge RBS decision. As Mr C was unhappy, RBS 
treated Mr Cs challenge as a complaint.
Mr C was unhappy with RBS decision not to approve additional lending, or a way to 
consolidate his existing debt. He explained hed been left in this situation due to actions 
outside of his control and he thought RBS shouldve taken this into consideration, as well as 
his loyalty as a customer over several years. He was also unhappy that he felt RBS had told 
him he could add his arrears to the existing loan and extend its term, only to be told later that 
this wasnt an option. Mr C felt RBS had led him to take actions that had negatively impacted 
his credit file and he didnt think this was fair. So, he wanted RBS to provide him the option 
of consolidating his outstanding debts and to remove any negative information reported to 
his credit file.
RBS responded and didnt agree. They felt the advice they provided, and their decision to 
refuse further lending, was correct due to Mr Cs affordability at the time. And they explained 
that any information reported to Mr Cs credit file was an accurate reflection of the account 
and its management. So, they were satisfied theyd followed their internal processes fairly 
and because of this, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr C remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought RBS acted fairly 
when refusing additional lending, as they were satisfied Mr C didnt meet the affordability 
requirements. And they thought RBS had provided him with adequate support by offering the 
two FHPs and breathing space following this to give him time to seek debt advice and 
resolve his legal dispute with his builder. They also explained RBS had an obligation to 
report the way Mr C managed his account to Mr Cs credit file and so, they didnt think RBS 
had done anything wrong. So, they didnt think RBS needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree and provided detailed comments as to why. Our investigator considered 
these comments and explained their initial view remained unchanged. Specifically, our 
investigator explained the scope of their investigation and that any events after RBS final 
response hadnt been considered as we didnt have jurisdiction to do so. Mr C remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I recognise the financial 
situation Mr C found himself in resulted from a dispute between himself and the builder he 
employed to complete the property build. And I appreciate Mr C was unable to foresee or 
control these issues and I recognise hes taken legal action against the builder regarding 
this. I also appreciate the length of time legal issues such as this can take to resolve and that 
again, Mr C is unable to control these timescales. So, I dont dispute Mr Cs testimony or the 
fact that he finds himself in this situation through no fault of his own. And because of this, I 
can understand why Mr C feels RBS should provide him with some leniency regarding his 
finances, and the repayment of his outstanding debts, considering this and his loyalty as a 
continued customer.
But for me to say RBS should amend Mr Cs credit file or do something more to assist Mr Cs 
financial situation than they have already, I first need to be satisfied RBS have done 
something wrong. So, Id need to see evidence that they failed to provide Mr C with options 
that were available to him in line with RBS own business processes. Or, if I think they did 
provide Mr C with all reasonable options within their internal processes, that they acted 
unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mr Cs financial situation, and his 
dialogue with RBS, continued past RBS final response to his complaint sent in February 
2022. Our service is only able to consider events that have been complained about to a 
business where a business has had a chance to respond. So, as this complaint was set up 
based on RBS final response sent in February 2022, Ive only considered RBS actions up to 
this point. Any actions taken, or service provided, after this point would need to be raised 
and considered separately. And they havent impacted the decision Ive reached.
I also want to make it clear to Mr C that our service is unable to comment upon, or direct 
RBS to change, any business processes theyve put in place. This is because their business 
processes are created as part of RBS own commercial decisions and these decisions fall 
under the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to look into 
further. 
But, while I cant comment on a business process, I can consider whether RBS have acted 
fairly within these processes. 
I can see that RBS agreed to provide Mr C with two separate FHPs running from June to 
November 2021, after they were made aware of the financial difficulty he was experiencing. 
Ive listened to both of the calls Mr C held with RBS, where these FHPs were agreed. And I 
think RBS made it reasonably clear to Mr C on both calls that while the FHPs were in place, 
arrears would continue to accrue on his account. And, that at the end of each FHP, there 
would need to be a conversation to discuss how these arrears would be repaid.
In the call between Mr C and RBS in September, where the second FHP was agreed, RBS 
made it explicitly clear that Mr C would need to repay the arrears but this could be paid over 
a maximum term of 18 months to help with affordability. There was no mention of being able 
to extend the loan term to cover the arrears. And RBS have confirmed this isnt an option 
they would provide a customer who was six months in arrears as Mr C was at the end of the 
second FHP. So, I dont think I can say RBS have acted unfairly when not providing this 
option to Mr C as a way of clearing the arrears.
Also in these calls, I think RBS make Mr C reasonably aware that the FHP would be 
reported to his credit file. In the first call, held in June 2021, Mr C sought clarification on what 
this meant, and RBS re-emphasised that a repayment plan would be reported to his credit 
file. Mr C continued to agree to the FHP on these terms and so, I dont think RBS acted 
unfairly when reporting to Mr Cs credit file during this time.
Following the expiration of the second FHP, RBS confirmed another FHP couldnt be put in 
place as forbearance plans can only be offered for a maximum of six months. And Mr C had 
been in plans for this length of time, with arrears accruing. RBS have provided me with a 
copy of their forbearance internal guidance and this supports the information Mr C was 
provided. Ive listened to the call where this was discussed, and Im satisfied the information 
RBS provided was accurate. And Im satisfied RBS acted fairly  here as they offered to place 
a 30-day suspension on Mr Cs account to allow him time to seek independent debt 
management advice and to see if he could progress his dispute against his builder to a 
conclusion. I dont think RBS needed to offer this course of action and I think it shows RBS 
acting positively and sympathetically to Mr Cs situation.
Unfortunately, Mr C says the debt advice he received suggested he should return to RBS to 
agree a new repayment plan. While I dont doubt this is the advice Mr C received, I dont 
think this means RBS acted unfairly due to this. Nor do I think it means RBS shouldve done 
something differently. The debt management company Mr C spoke to wouldnt have access 
to RBS internal policies and business processes and so, wouldnt have known whether RBS 
had already exhausted all the options available to Mr C.But I can see RBS and Mr C engaged in further conversations about repayment of the 
arrears, and his outstanding debt, in February 2022. And Ive seen Mr C provided RBS with 
his income and expenditure, as well as a proposal for further additional lending to allow him 
to purchase a caravan which would allow him to reduce his living costs overall.
RBS have confirmed at this point, Mr C had two options available to him, but both were 
dependent on his affordability. Mr C was either able to enter into a refinance arrangement 
(RFA) where RBS would place his loan and arrears together and work out a new term and 
monthly repayment. But Mr C would need to show he was able to meet this repayment for 
six months before a new loan was officially entered into. Or, Mr C would be able to repay the 
arrears through a repayment arrangement, on top of his usual monthly loan repayment 
agreed in 2020.
RBS have confirmed that for both options to be applicable, Mr C needed to show he was 
able to afford the repayments either option would equate to. And theyve explained from Mr 
Cs income and expenditure, he was unable to afford the original repayment, let alone a 
repayment for more. And Ive heard in calls between Mr C and RBS that Mr C confirms he 
was unable to afford the monthly repayment at that time. So, Im satisfied Mr C failed to meet 
the affordability criteria at the time these options were discussed in February 2022 and so, I 
dont think RBS acted unfairly when refusing to offer either option.
I also think it follows that, as Mr C was unable to afford repayments to his existing debt, RBS 
were fair to refuse his proposal of taking additional lending. While I dont dispute Mr Cs 
belief that this additional lending would place him in a stronger financial situation to repay his 
debts, I wouldnt expect a business such as RBS to place a customer in further debt when 
they were already unable to sustainably repay the debt they had outstanding. 
So, for all of reasons listed above, I think RBS have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
C in an attempt to help his financial situation. And I think their decision to refuse an RFA was 
a fair one at the time they made this initial decision in February 2022. Because of this, I dont 
think they need to anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I recognise Mr C has concerns 
about the actions RBS have taken since RBS issued their final response. Specifically, Im 
aware RBS have since agreed to an RFA due to an improvement in Mr Cs financial 
situation. I appreciate why this may lead Mr C to question RBS initial refusal in February. 
But as I explained earlier in my decision, any events that have taken place after RBS final 
response havent impacted the decision Ive reached. And even so, when considering a 
businesss decision to provide additional lending, or consolidate existing lending into a plan 
such as an RFA, I must consider the information available to RBS at that time. And based on 
this, I think RBS have acted reasonably.
I also appreciate Mr Cs belief his loyalty as a customer shouldve impacted the actions RBS 
have taken. But I wouldnt expect RBS to alter a decision based on affordability due to the 
length of time a customer has used their services as any lending, or refinance, decisions 
should be focused on the customers individual circumstances at that time. And this can 
differ vastly over extended periods of time.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint about The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman