DRN-3235157
The complaint
Mr E complains that British Gas Services Limited havent provided the services covered by 
his Homecare policy, as they cancelled and rearranged the engineers visit he booked in 
March 2021 multiple times. He wants them to refund the premiums he paid for the period 
when these services werent provided.
What happened
Mr E has a Homecare policy with BG which covers his boiler, central heating system, 
plumbing, drains, home electrics and kitchen appliances. In March 2021 he booked an 
engineers visit online for April 2021 as there was a problem with his boiler. He says BG 
called him the day before the appointment to say it was cancelled and would be rescheduled 
for May. They then called him again a few days before the May appointment to cancel this 
as well, rescheduling it for June 2021. He was offered £20 compensation for the changed 
appointment, which he declined. Mr E says that having to arrange time off work for the 
rearranged appointments caused him distress.
Mr E complained to BG in May 2021 after his appointment had been cancelled for the 
second time. He told them he believed that they couldnt provide the services his policy 
covered due to staff shortages and strikes. He said hed been told his appointment had to be 
cancelled due to the large number of vulnerable customers suffering complete system 
breakdowns, which he didnt accept. 
He also said he was told hed been offered a priority slot on 11 June 2021, but when he 
checked online this slot was available for any new booking. As BGs agent had lied to him 
about the priority slot, he didnt believe anything else hed been told, and he wanted £300 
compensation for the services they hadnt provided in 2021. 
BG called Mr E in early June to discuss his complaint. He wasnt happy with this as hed told 
them he no longer wished to speak with them and had asked them to communicate by email. 
BG did this and apologised to Mr E that he was told hed been offered a priority slot in June. 
They said they changed his time slot on 11 June to between 12 pm and 2pm. They 
reiterated that the reason his appointments had been changed was because vulnerable 
customers had to be prioritised. They also said his policy terms and conditions stated they 
werent responsible for any losses arising from delayed, rearranged, or cancelled 
appointments. But they offered him £150 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr E wasnt happy with BGs response or the £150 theyd offered him. There was further 
correspondence between Mr E and BG in which he told them they hadnt understood his 
complaint. On 15 June 2021 BG told Mr E their response to his complaint had been 
reviewed by a manager who agreed with the outcome reached. They also said their records 
showed that an annual service had been completed for him on 12 June 2021. And theyd 
arranged to send him a cheque for £150.
Mr E replied to BG on 17 June 2021 saying they still hadnt understood his complaint. He 
said he asked for £150 in March after his first appointment was cancelled, but three months 
on as things still hadnt been resolved, he wanted £400. He also said their records werent 
correct as he was still awaiting his annual service, and hed had to request emergency call 
outs on 12 and 13 June 2021, as the problem he had was worse after the first engineers 
visit. 
Mr E then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and felt that there 
were valid reasons for his appointments being cancelled and rearranged. He didnt think it 
was fair to ask BG to refund Mr Es premiums as his cover wasnt just for his boiler, and hed 
had other work carried out during this period. And he thought the £150 BG had offered was 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience Mr E had experienced.
Mr E wasnt happy with our investigators opinion as he remained of the view that even if BG 
had provided other services to him, a three-month delay in providing a service first booked in 
March 2021 couldnt be considered reasonable. And he didnt accept BGs explanation that 
his appointments were cancelled due to the need to prioritise vulnerable customers with 
emergency breakdowns.
Since our investigator provided their opinion, weve asked BG to confirm what work their 
engineer carried out on 11 June 2021. Theyve told us that Mr E had reported an issue with 
his hot water and pipework and a potential leak. Hed not seen a leak, but his water pressure 
kept dropping. On 11 June 2021 they say their engineer replaced a leaking pump washer 
and recharged the unvented bubble. Mr E called after the visit to say his system had failed 
again. So an engineer reattended on 12 June 2021 when they repaired the leaking pump 
valve and recharged the vessel, and they also replace a shredder core. 
During the visit BG say that Mr E asked the engineer to return and repair an issue with a 
radiator valve. This wasnt related to the fault that had been repaired and in was too late to 
complete this work. But an engineer attended the next day and replaced a towel radiator 
valve. So they dont agree that an engineer had to return twice to fix the fault Mr E had 
reported.
Th case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es policy with BG state Well carry out any repairs or visits 
youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless something beyond our control makes that 
impossible  in which case well let you know as soon as possible and give you another time 
when we can visit.
Mr E first booked his appointment with BG in March 2021, but the issue hed booked the 
appointment for wasnt resolved until June 2021. So I need to consider if this work was 
completed in a reasonable time. I understand Mr Es frustration with his appointment being 
rearranged twice. But I have to look at the wider circumstances at the time and what BG 
have told us about the reason for his appointment being rearranged. 
In March 2021 the restrictions that had been in place during the pandemic were starting to 
ease and BG were able to offer more than just emergency appointments. Theyve told us 
that Mr Es appointments needed to be rearranged due to the number of vulnerable 
customers requiring assistance. Mr E doesnt accept this and thinks BG didnt have the staff 
available to cover his appointments. 
Given the timing of the rearranged appointments I think its likely thered have been vulnerable people whod werent able, or were reluctant, to have an engineer visit their home 
until restrictions started to ease. So on balance I accept that in April and May 2021 BG had 
to deal with an increased demand on their services, and prioritise certain customers as 
restrictions eased. 
Mr E was given notice that his appointments had to be rearranged, and in the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for his appointments to be rearranged. And while I 
understand why hes unhappy about this, if the problem he had was an emergency, he could 
have called BG to arrange for an engineer to attend sooner.
Mr E believes that BG should refund the premiums he paid between the date of the first 
appointment hed booked in April 2021 and June 2021 when the issue was finally fixed. But 
he still had cover during this period and could have called BG if he had any urgent issues. 
The record of service visits BG has provided confirms that prior to April 2021 Mr E had 
multiple service visits, so I think BG would have attended if hed contacted them and said the 
situation was urgent.
Mr E paid an annual premium of £506.86 for his HomeCare Four policy for the period 
between 3 August 2020 and 2 August 2021. Although he paid extra for cover for his kitchen 
appliances. BG have offered him £150 for his cancelled appointments. Im persuaded on the 
evidence Ive seen that BG acted reasonably, and in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Es policy when they cancelled his appointments. So Im not asking them to 
do anything. 
And I think the £150 BG offered Mr E is reasonable to compensate him for the 
inconvenience he experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint about 
British Gas Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman