DRN-1326634
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service provided by Tradewise Insurance Company Limited after a 
claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B called Tradewise for roadside recovery provided under his policy following a 
breakdown. He asked for a jump start for a flat battery. The agent tried to jump start the car, 
but this was unsuccessful. He wouldnt charge the battery. Tradewise said a recovery would 
mean call out charges would be applied. 
Mr B charged the battery and was able to drive and lock his car. But the next morning it had 
been ransacked and items stolen. A mechanic told Mr B that after the battery died the fob 
should have been pressed a few times to recalibrate the locks. But the recovery agent hadnt 
told Mr B that. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
unfair for Tradewise to require Mr B to specify that he wanted recovery when he made the 
call out. She thought Tradewise should have done more to help Mr B by recovering the car 
or charging the battery. She thought the agent should have told Mr B that he needed to 
recalibrate the locks. She thought Tradewise should cover the cost of the stolen property 
and pay Mr B £100 compensation. 
Tradewise replied that the policy wouldnt cover the recovery as Mr B had already had two 
call outs under the policy. It said the policy didnt cover consequential losses. It asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated with the level of service provided by Tradewise. 
The attending roadside assistance agent came prepared to jump start the car. This didnt 
work, but it caused the windows to drop. The agent wouldnt charge the battery and Mr B 
was told that hed have to pay for recovery. Instead, Mr B made his own arrangements, 
charged the battery, got the windows up and locked the car. But his car was ransacked as 
he hadnt known to recalibrate the locks. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mr Bs policy covers two callouts for breakdowns a year, and these include flat 
batteries. Mr B had made one call out earlier in the policy year. So I think his call out for 
assistance was valid under the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr B told the agent that he needed jump starting and the agent came prepared only for that. 
He wasnt prepared to then charge the battery after the jump start didnt succeed. I dont 
think its reasonable to require Mr B to accurately diagnose the cause and solution to his 
breakdown. So I think Tradewises agent should have done more to help him at this point. It 
could have charged the battery or recovered Mr Bs car to a garage. 
Tradewise said recovery was provided under the policy, but this should be requested during 
the initial call out. But I dont think this is a fair interpretation of the policy. The relevant 
wording on page 12 of the policy booklet states:
Any recovery must take place at the same time as the initial Callout otherwise You will have 
to pay for subsequent Callout charges.
This doesnt say that the consumer needs to request a recovery in the initial callout, just that 
it needs to be part of the same callout. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect a consumer to know what level of assistance will be 
required before any attendance by the recovery agent. 
The policy also states that the option of recovery is available if the agent is unable to make a 
roadside repair. I think this means that the recovery should have been provided to Mr B as 
part of his callout when the agent was unable to start the car. 
Tradewise said it wasnt responsible for Mr Bs losses after his car was ransacked for two 
reasons. Firstly, it said that the policy didnt cover unsecure vehicles or faults with electric 
windows. It said, secondly, that the policy didnt cover consequential losses.
But these losses only occurred because Tradewises agents efforts caused the car to be 
unlocked and because he didnt tell Mr B that he would need to recalibrate his cars locks. I 
think he should reasonably have told Mr B to do this. 
So I think Mr Bs losses are due to the agents negligence and therefore Tradewise is 
responsible for them. And I think it should compensate Mr B for these losses.
I can see that Mr B was also unhappy with Tradewises response to his complaint. But Im 
unable to consider that as, under the rules that govern us, its not a regulated activity.
Putting things right
I think Tradewise should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its level of service. I also think it should cover the costs of replacements for his 
lost sunglasses and printer, upon provision of reasonable evidence of their costs. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Tradewise Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman