DRN-4284921
The complaint
Mr I complains that Evolve FS Limited didnt update his mortgage application when he told it 
he wanted to take out a five-year fixed rate product. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr I took mortgage advice from Evolve in late 2021. He received a mortgage offer in early 
December 2021 with a two-year fixed rate product. Mr I asked Evolve to change to a five-
year product later in December 2021. He says he only found out it didnt action his request in 
April 2022 when the lender agreed to extend the mortgage offer.
Interest rates increased between December 2021 and April 2022. The five-year product Mr I 
wanted was no longer available. While the lender had another five-year product available 
this had a higher interest rate than the product Mr I had wanted  and higher than the two- 
year product in the existing mortgage offer. Mr I decided to stay with the two-year product in 
his mortgage offer. Mr I says hes out of pocket because interest rates have further 
increased and hell have to take out a higher interest rate product when his two-year product 
expires.
In March 2023, after the complaint was brought to us, Evolve offered compensation of 
£3,736. It said Mr I could have taken out a five-year rate in May 2022. It offered to pay 
compensation based on the difference between the costs of the five-year fixed interest rate 
products available in December 2021 and May 2022. Our investigator said this was fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr I didnt agree. He said, in summary:
interest rates are increasing and likely to continue to do so. He said the amount offered 
by Evolve was only about 20% of his expected losses of about £21,000. He said hed 
prefer to wait until his product expires so that Evolve can pay his actual loss.
hed sent an email to Evolve in December 2022 to confirm he wanted the five-year fixed 
rate and followed up with a phone call. Mr I said hes a first-time buyer and didnt know to 
expect a written notification of the change.
he raised the problem with Evolve in mid-April 2022. It delayed taking responsibility, and 
only offered £500 in July 2022 as a good will gesture. Mr I said its unfair to calculate his 
losses based on the product rate available in May 2022.
My provisional decision
I sent a provision decision to the parties in June 2023, as follows:
Did Evolve make an error?
Mr I took mortgage advice from Evolve and received a mortgage offer in early December 
2021. The offer included a 2.17% two-year fixed rate product which expires on 29 February 
2024. This had no product fee.
Mr I says he thinks a two-year rate was recommended because he thought, or was told, a 
longer rate would be more expensive. The fact find doesnt include any reasons for Mr I 
wanting to fix for two years. It doesnt say he wanted to avoid a product fee. Evolves 
recommendation letter said Mr I chose the term as he wanted to review his situation, 
regarding his work visa and income.
The fact find says Mr Is income would increase as he gained qualifications in his profession, 
and Mr I says he expects his visa to be renewed in due course. The lender confirmed Mr I 
could have taken out a five-year product. It seems there wasnt anything to prevent Mr I 
taking out a five-year product.
Mr I contacted Evolve shortly after receiving the mortgage offer to ask if he could change to 
a five-year fixed rate product, which had a lower rate than the two year product. He also 
asked about reducing the term of the mortgage. There were several emails discussing this, 
and Evolve provided the interest rate, product fee and monthly payments. Mr I emailed in 
mid-December 2021 to confirm he wanted the five-year fixed rate product.
Evolve doesnt dispute receiving Mr Is email. It says the broker didnt see it or action it.
Evolve made an error and as a result Mr I didnt secure the interest rate product he wanted. 
He missed out on a product with a lower interest rate than the product he took out, and 
having the benefit of this lower rate for five years.
Evolve said if Mr I had told it he hadnt received notification or paperwork related to the five- 
year rate it would have been alerted to the issue. It says Mr I spoke to and emailed the 
broker a number of times after this about life assurance, but the interest rate change wasnt 
discussed.
Mr I says this is the first mortgage hes taken out, and didnt know to expect a new mortgage 
offer after the product was changed. Mr I says he called Evolve to confirm he wanted the 
five-year rate. Evolve says it cant provide call recordings.
There were several email exchanges between Mr I and the broker about the possible 
change in product and term. Mr I said hed confirm his decision by mid-December 2021  
which of course he did. I find it unlikely, on balance, that this issue wasnt discussed on any 
of the calls at that time. I think, if the broker hadnt seen Mr Is email, it would be reasonable 
to expect him to ask Mr I what hed decided to do.
While Mr I says he didnt know to expect a new mortgage offer, I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr I to expect something in writing to confirm the change. Hed received a 
mortgage offer with the two-year product and he ought reasonably to have expected a new 
offer with the new product terms such as the interest rate, five-year term, monthly payments 
and the product fee. Thats not to take away Evolves responsibility for its error in not 
actioning Mr Is request. However, matters might have turned out differently if Mr I had asked 
Evolve why he hadnt received written confirmation of the change, or chased the broker to 
check his request had been actioned.
Has Evolve made a fair offer to put matters right?
The mortgage offer was extended in April 2022, as there were delays in Mr Is purchase 
completing. Mr I says he tried to contact Evolve when he received the new mortgage offer 
with the two-year fixed rate. He emailed Evolve on 26 April 2022 to ask what had happened, 
and why he hadnt heard back for two weeks.By this time, interest rates had increased. Evolve says there was a 3.02% five-year fixed 
interest rate product available in May 2022. It said Mr I decided against this as he didnt want 
the higher rate. The available evidence supports this  Mr I said he couldnt go with the five- 
year rate available in May 2022 as the monthly payments were significantly higher.
Evolve says Mr I could have taken out the five-year product available in May 2022. It 
proposed paying compensation on the basis of the difference between the five-year rate 
available in December 2021 and the five-year rate available in May 2022. It offered to pay 
this for 36 months  in effect for the period after the two-year product Mr I took out expires.
If Evolve had offered this to Mr I in May 2022, he could have factored this into his decision 
whether to take out the five-year product. Most likely, Id have considered this a fair offer to 
resolve the matter. But Evolve didnt offer this until March 2023, by which time the product 
was no longer available and Mr I was tied into his existing product. So, without a timely 
response to his complaint, Mr I wasnt able to decide how best to mitigate his losses. Mr Is 
current product has a higher interest rate than the five-year product available in December 
2021 and the compensation ought to take this into account.
In fairness, Id expect a customer to take steps to mitigate their losses. Mr I could have done 
this by taking out the five-year product in May 2022, even if the interest rate (3.02%) was 
higher than the two-year product rate (2.17%) in his mortgage offer. Since then, the Bank of 
England raised the bank rate eight times, from 1.0% in May 2022 to 4.5% in May 2023.
Mr I said he didnt want to change to the higher five-year rate as didnt want higher monthly 
payments, saying these were unaffordable. Evolve says the payments would have been 
affordable, based on the information it had about Mr Is circumstances. The available 
evidence supports what Evolve says. The fact find suggests Mr I would have had enough 
disposable income for the higher payments and his income was likely to increase. So while 
Mr I didnt want higher payments, which is understandable, Im not persuaded this would 
have been unaffordable.
In hindsight, it might seem that Mr I ought to have taken out the five-year product available in 
May 2022. But I have to consider what Mr I knew at the time. The bank rate had increased in 
February, March and early May 2022 from 0.25% to 1.0%. So Mr I would have been aware 
of the risk of further rate rises. But he wouldnt have known that the bank rate  and 
mortgage rates  would increase in the way they have. Indeed, rates could have decreased 
before the two-year product expires. I need to take all this into account when considering the 
amount of compensation thats fair.
As I said, matters might have worked out differently if Evolve had offered to compensate Mr I 
for the difference in cost between the two five-year products in May 2022. As it didnt offer 
this until March 2023, I dont think thats necessarily a fair basis on which to calculate 
compensation.
What should Evolve do to put matters right?
Our usual approach is, as far as possible, to put a customer into the position they would 
have been in but for the error. That could mean Evolve compensating Mr I for his additional 
costs due to not securing the five-year product in December 2021.
Its not possible to do that calculation, as we dont know what interest rate Mr I will be able to 
secure when his product expires at the end of February 2024. Mr I says hed be prepared to 
wait until then, so that his exact loss can be calculated.
I can see the benefit of this, but there are also difficulties. It would be reasonable for Evolve to want some assurance Mr I will take out the lowest cost product available at that time. I 
could require Evolve to pay compensation on the basis of the nearest equivalent mortgage 
product available to Mr I from his current lender when his product expires. But this might not 
be fair to Evolve if better rates are available from other lenders. Then again, Mr I might not 
want to re-mortgage, or be able to do so. I also think leaving the calculation of compensation 
to be done in future risks further disputes between the parties. And Mr I would be dependent 
on Evolve still trading and being in a position to pay compensation at a future date. I will 
consider any comments from the parties about whether this is their preferred option and how 
theyd expect it to work in practice.
The other option is to find an amount of compensation that feels fair taking into account my 
findings above. Im currently minded to say the following, and Id invite the parties to 
comment on my suggestions.
The calculation needs to take into account that the five-year product Mr I wanted had a lower 
interest rate than the two-year product he currently has, but did have a product fee. And the 
calculation needs to take into account what might happen when Mr Is current product 
expires.
So, I suggest:
1. Evolve should calculate the amount of interest Mr I would have incurred from completion 
of the mortgage to 28 February 2027 (36 months after 29 February 2024) if hed taken 
out the five-year 2.13% fixed interest rate product.
For the purpose of the calculation above, Evolve should assume the £999 product fee for 
the five-year 2.13% fixed interest rate product would have been added to the mortgage 
loan.
For all of the calculations, Evolve should assume Mr I makes his contractual monthly 
payments in full and on time, and that the balance reduces over time accordingly.
2. Evolve should calculate the interest Mr I will actually incur from completion of the 
mortgage until his current fixed interest rate product expires on 29 February 2024.
3. Evolve should calculate the amount of interest Mr I would pay for 36 months starting on 1 
March 2024 and ending on 28 February 2027 on the lenders current standard variable 
rate (its website says this is 4.99%).
4. Evolve should add together the results of 2 and 3. It should deduct the result of 1 from 
this.
I suggest the result of this calculation should then be adjusted, for the following reasons.
First, Mr I will have the use of the compensation payment before he has to make the higher 
payments. He could, for instance, use the funds to reduce his balance, immediately if this is 
within his overpayment allowance or when his product expires on 29 February 2024. This 
would reduce the amount of interest he pays overall.
Second, Mr I will have the opportunity to look for the best available rate for when his product 
expires at the end of February 2024. Interest rates could increase or decrease by then.
Third, the compensation should take into account that Mr I had opportunities to mitigate his 
losses. He could have chased Evolve in December 2021 when he didnt receive written 
confirmation of the change of products. And he could have taken out a five-year product in May 2022.
For these reasons, I think the result of the calculation should be reduced by 30%.
Ive suggested what I think would be a fair compromise, which would allow the compensation 
to be calculated now and the matter closed. Mr I says the higher monthly payments hed 
have been required to pay if he took out the 3.02% product in May 2022 were unaffordable.
As I said, Im not persuade that was the case. But this compensation will hopefully allow Mr I 
to stay in his property for five years, as if hed taken out the five-year product hed wanted. If 
he cant afford payments after that, thats no different to the position hed have been in if he 
had had the benefit of the five-year product.
Id ask for the parties comments on my suggestions. Evolve should send calculations in 
accordance with what I said above in response to this provisional decision. That will help the 
parties reach a decision about the best way forward.
Evolve offered £500 to Mr I in its final response letter. I think this matter caused Mr I 
inconvenience and worry, and continues to do so. I think £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the inconvenience and worry this has caused.
How did the parties respond to my provisional decision?
Evolve didnt agree that the suggested compensation was a fair compromise. In summary, it 
said Mr I had opportunities to mitigate his losses, and he knew rates were rising. It said he 
could have questioned why he hadnt received a new mortgage offer and this would have 
allowed for matters to put sorted out. Evolve said it had no record of Mr I calling the broker in 
December 2021 about the change of product, it only has records of him discussing life 
assurance at that time. Evolve said Mr I originally asked for £21,000. 
Evolve did provide calculations, as Id requested. It said the lenders SVR was currently 
7.99%, not 4.99% as Id said in my provisional decision. It also said if Mr I used the 
compensation to reduce his mortgage balance hed save about £60,000 in interest over the 
term of the mortgage and might qualify for lower loan to value products. It said this could 
potentially put him in a better position than if hed taken out the five-year rate. 
Mr I asked that we take into account that he did follow up his email in December 2021 with 
phone calls to Evolve, as evidenced by his phone bill. He says he was reassured that his 
request would be dealt with. Mr I said Evolve ought to have records and recordings of the 
calls, which would show this. Because of this, Mr I didnt think the compensation should be 
reduced by 30%. 
Mr I also pointed out that he raised his concerns with Evolve in April 2022. So Evolve had an 
opportunity to advise him about rising interest rates. He says hed have taken out the five-
year rate available in May 2022 if Evolve had made an offer at that time to reduce the cost. 
Instead, it failed to make a substantive offer or take responsibility for its error. 
Mr I said his circumstances changed in May 2022 when he had another child, which 
increased his expenditure and limited his ability to do extra shifts. He qualified in his 
profession in August 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided new comments or evidence that would persuade me to change my 
findings about what happened. A dispute remains about what compensation is fair and 
reasonable.
When Mr I raised his complaint, he asked for compensation of £21,000. That was the 
amount he expected to be out of pocket due to Evolves error in not acting on his request to 
change to a five-year product in December 2021. I dont think its fair to hold Mr I to that 
amount. Evolve didnt agree to pay £21,000, and while the complaint has been on-going 
mortgage rates have increased. We now know Mr Is losses are likely to be greater. Rates 
(including the lenders SVR) have further increased since Evolve provided its calculations. 
I had already taken into account in my provisional decision that Mr I had opportunities to 
mitigate the loss by taking out a five-year product in May 2022, or by asking Evolve why he 
hadnt had written confirmation of the new product. Id also taken into account that I thought 
it was likely Mr I had confirmed he wanted the five-year product during calls with the broker. 
Mr Is phone bill shows he called the brokers mobile phone number six times over 20 to 23 
December 2022 as well as calling his landline number. Some calls are very short, which 
suggests Mr I didnt always get through to the broker and might have left a message. If so, 
its unclear if the broker called back, but it is clear that Mr I made efforts to get in contact with 
the broker. Even if Mr I didnt mention the product change (which I find unlikely) the broker 
could have asked him if he'd made a decision. 
Evolve said if Mr I used the compensation payment to reduce the mortgage balance hed be 
put in a better position than if hed taken out the five-year rate he wanted. It says Mr I could 
save about £60,000 in interest over the term of the mortgage, assuming he remains on the 
lenders SVR, and might be able to access products with a lower loan to value ratio.
Ive carefully considered what Evolve has said. Its likely that reducing the mortgage balance 
will save Mr I interest over the remaining term, and hed retain the benefit of a reduced 
mortgage balance if he re-mortgages or moves home. Id taken this into account when I said 
the compensation payment should be reduced by 30%. Evolve is saying this should be 
further reduced. But this compensation is for the higher payments which will start about six 
months after Mr I receives the compensation and continue for three years. The potential 
benefit in interest savings  although significant  would be spread over the remaining term 
of the mortgage, which is more than 30 years. And whether or not Mr I is better off would 
depend on what happens with interest rates in future. 
I think Mr I makes a fair point that Evolve also had opportunities to mitigate the losses which 
resulted from its error. It could have offered compensation for the additional cost of the five-
year product available in May 2022 at that time. Mr I says hed have taken out the product if 
it had done so. The broker could have asked Mr I in December 2021 whether hed made a 
decision about changing the product.
There was a cost to Evolves error in not acting on Mr Is request to change to a five-year 
product. Both parties missed opportunities to mitigate that cost. Theres nothing I can now do 
to reduce that cost. What I have to do is decide who bears that cost.
I appreciate that the calculation set out in my provisional decision isnt  and cant be  an 
exact calculation of this cost. There are too many potential variables. But having considered 
the further comments made by Mr I and Evolve, I think this is the fairest compromise in the 
circumstances.Putting things right
Evolve should take the following steps:
1. Evolve should calculate the amount of interest Mr I would have incurred from completion 
of the mortgage to 28 February 2027 (36 months after 29 February 2024) if hed taken 
out the five-year 2.13% fixed interest rate product.
For the purpose of the calculation above, Evolve should assume the £999 product fee for 
the five-year 2.13% fixed interest rate product would have been added to the mortgage 
loan.
For all of the calculations, Evolve should assume Mr I makes his contractual monthly 
payments in full and on time, and that the balance reduces over time accordingly.
2. Evolve should calculate the interest Mr I will actually incur from completion of the 
mortgage until his current fixed interest rate product expires on 29 February 2024.
3. Evolve should calculate the amount of interest Mr I would pay for 36 months starting on 1 
March 2024 and ending on 28 February 2027 on the lenders current standard variable 
rate (as at the date of this decision).
4. Evolve should add together the results of 2 and 3. It should deduct the result of 1 from 
this.
The result of this calculation should then be adjusted, for the following reasons.
First, Mr I will have the use of the compensation payment before he has to make the higher 
payments. He could, for instance, use the funds to reduce his balance, immediately to the 
extent this within his overpayment allowance (which he can check with his lender) or when 
his product has expired. This would reduce the amount of interest he pays overall.
Second, Mr I will have the opportunity to look for the best available rate for when his product 
expires at the end of February 2024. Interest rates could increase or decrease by then.
Third, the compensation should take into account that Mr I had opportunities to mitigate his 
losses. He could have chased Evolve in December 2021 when he didnt receive written 
confirmation of the change of products. And he could have taken out a five-year product in 
May 2022.
For these reasons, I think the result of the calculation should be reduced by 30%.
Evolve offered £500 to Mr I in its final response letter. I think this matter caused Mr I 
inconvenience and worry, and continues to do so. I think £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the inconvenience and worry this has caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Evolve FS Limited to pay compensation 
to Mr I as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman