DRN-3279075
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) handling of his 
Parts and Garage Cover insurance policy claim. He wants an apology and compensation.
There are several parties and representatives of Acromas involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Acromas.
What happened
Mr Bs car broke down and he called his roadside assistance policy provider who attended 
and diagnosed a faulty valve. 
Mr Bs car was still driveable so he drove it to a garage in his hometown that he had used for 
many years. It was a Sunday and the garage was closed so he left his car there and put the 
keys through the garage letterbox. 
The same day the roadside assistance representative emailed Mr B with a report that 
included details of diagnostic findings and recommendations. As part of his roadside 
recovery membership, Mr B held a Parts and Garage Cover insurance policy. He would 
make a claim for the valve on this policy. 
The next day Mr B went to the garage with the report and explained the situation to the 
garage owner. Mr B informed the garage he had a Parts and Garage Cover policy. The 
garage owner said he would not take on a repair until it had been authorised by the insurer 
as hed had problems being paid in the past. 
Mr B told the garage owner he would pay him directly and he would request reimbursement 
from Acromas himself. He left the car at the garage for repair work to be undertaken.
The next day Mr B contacted Acromas to make a claim on his Parts and Garage Cover 
policy. He explained he wanted to pay the garage himself and claim the cost back from 
Acromas. The Acromas representative agreed that this was possible. 
Mr B was asked to get the garage to contact it. Mr B was unhappy that he still needed to be 
involved and felt that Acromas should contact the garage and deal with everything from this 
point forwards.
When Mr B got his car back he found the car was running well. However Acromas said it 
was not prepared to pay for the work that had been completed because it wasnt a repair it 
had approved. Acromas said it was a temporary repair.
Mr B said that if a repair to the valve was not of the standard that Acromas would accept, 
then it was not good enough for him either. He said the job had to be done again to a 
standard accepted by Acromas. 
Acromas initially said it wouldnt agree to cover any further work to replace the repair that 
had already been done, but after discussion with Mr B it agreed it would pay for the repaired 
valve to be replaced. This claim was authorised by Acromas and the valve was replaced.
As Mr B was not happy with Acromas he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and did not find that 
Acromas had made an error and had followed its claims process as detailed in the terms and 
conditions.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs Parts and Garage Cover policy. It says in the 
How to make a claim section 
Step 4. Agreeing on necessary repairs
Before any repairs are started you and the repairer must agree on what needs to be done
and these repairs must then be authorised by the PGC claim handler. Once everythings
agreed and authorised youll get a claim authorisation number - please keep this number
safe as you may need to refer to it. In some circumstances it may be necessary to appoint
an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle to assess whether the claim falls within the
terms and conditions of your cover.
I am satisfied that this is written in a simple way. It is clear that before any repairs are started 
they must be authorised by Acromas. 
I also listened to the calls between Mr B and Acromas and Acromas and the garage. 
Mr Bs Car was left at the garage on Sunday 19 July 2021. He returned to the garage first 
thing the day after to show the owner the report from the roadside assistance representative. 
The garage owner told him he wasnt happy to take on the repair under an insurance policy 
as he had been left out of pocket previously. Mr B said it was only when I said I would pay 
him directly and request reimbursement from Acromas myself that he agreed to do the 
work. Mr B left his car at the garage. 
On 21 July 2021 Mr B rang Acromas to make a claim. During this call Acromas explained its 
claims process. It explained that once the garage had completed a full diagnostic and knew 
what was wrong and the cost to repair, they needed to call Acromas with this information. 
Acromass technical team would then look at this information and call the garage back to 
agree the next steps.
As Mr B had already told the garage to go ahead with the repairs, Acromas asked him to 
speak to the garage and ask the mechanic to call it to discuss the repair and so repairs could 
be authorised. Mr B agreed to do this.
Mr B went to the garage the next day. His car was ready to collect as the repair had been 
completed. He paid the garage £200 and expected that this would be paid to him by 
Acromas less £35 excess. He asked the garage owner to call Acromas but he said he 
wouldnt. So Mr B rang and asked Acromas if it would make a call to the garage, which it did.When Acromas called the garage later the same day, the garage explained they had 
completed a clean and a repair to the faulty valve. Acromas said that this was not covered 
by Mr Bs Parts and Garage Cover policy because cleaning was not covered and a 
temporary repair had been made to the valve rather than fitting a new one. 
I do understand that Mr B would not have deliberately asked the garage to undertake work 
that was not covered by his Parts and Garage Cover policy. I would not expect him to know 
what would be classed as an authorised repair, because he is not a technical expert. 
However the reason the Acromas Parts and Garage Cover policy terms say that any work 
has to be authorised before it is started, is there to avoid the issue of work being undertaken 
that is not covered by the policy.
The technical expert at Acromas did agree a way forward with Mr B and allowed a second 
claim to cover a replacement valve through his Parts and Garage Cover policy. This was 
something it did not have to do but did so that Mr Bs car had a new valve fitted. And to 
ensure that his insurance remained valid. Mr B collected the part and delivered it to the 
garage and it was fitted the week after.
I do realise that this matter will have caused Mr B distress and that he paid £200 for a 
temporary repair that was not covered by his Parts and Garage Cover policy. I can see that 
he had to be involved in discussions with both the garage and Acromas to move the claim 
forward which I can imagine was stressful. However this was due to Mr B authorising work to 
be undertaken before he had clarified everything with Acromas and this involvement would 
not have been necessary if he had made the claim with Acromas before authorising work 
with the garage. 
I know that Mr B will be disappointed but having considered all the available evidence I think 
that Acromas have acted fairly. The claims process was clearly defined within the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs Parts and Garage Cover policy and Acromas acted within the terms 
when it declined to pay for the work undertaken by the garage before Mr B made his claim, 
as it was not covered. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman