DRN-2269420
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wont accept responsibility for a claim hes 
made against it under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr Ps concerns relate to a dispute with a third party, who Ill call A.
Under section 75 provisions, if A said something factually untrue that induced Mr P into the 
contract, or if A breached its contract with Mr P, then he may be able to claim against 
Nationwide if it financed the transaction.
What happened
Mr P was laying a new floor at home. He contacted A, as he was interested in a particular 
flooring that it offered for sale. Mr P was also fitting some underfloor heating. He says he 
asked A whether the flooring was compatible with the heating system hed chosen, providing 
a link to a website giving the heating system specifications. A replied to Mr P as follows:
Spoke to my colleague and this UFH system would be fully compatible with the 
laminate floor discussed without having to use additional underlay
Mr P says that based on this, he went ahead and bought the flooring from A, paying with his 
Nationwide credit card. Unfortunately, after he fitted the flooring things started to go wrong. 
Mr P has described how the flooring boards kept separating from each other, and that the 
problem has continued despite relaying them several times.
He had the flooring inspected by a third party company, H, who provided a report. The report 
found that while both the heating system and the flooring were of high quality, they were 
incompatible when used together. Mr P was unhappy with this situation, given that he says 
he checked compatibility when buying the flooring. He asked A for a full refund, 
subsequently making the same request of Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt accept liability for Mr Ps claim. It didnt think what A had said to Mr P 
amounted to misrepresentation. Nationwide also concluded that the underfloor heating 
system hadnt been fitted to the manufacturers specification. Mr P complained to Nationwide 
about its decision, but Nationwide declined to change its position.
Our investigator thought Nationwides stance was fair. She considered the heating system 
manufacturers installation instructions supported Nationwides position, and that As 
response to Mr Ps enquiry had been generic in nature and consistent with what it knew from 
the specifications hed provided.
Mr P remains unhappy. Hes asked for this review, maintaining that hed undertaken due 
diligence in asking about compatibility and in relying on the information hed received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities; in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence.
As Ive already noted, because Mr P used his credit card to make the purchase with A, in 
certain circumstances Nationwide might be liable to Mr P for As actions. But based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think I can properly require Nationwide to accept his section 75 claim, or 
pay him compensation equivalent to the amount of that claim. Ill explain why.
was there a breach of contract by A?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies certain terms into a contract for the supply of goods, 
including that they are of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose. Nationwides position here is 
that there was no breach of contract. It puts the problems down to inappropriate installation, 
which wasnt part of As agreement with Mr P.
The report Mr P commissioned from H indicates there were no defects in the flooring A 
supplied. H suggests the issue is that of incompatibility between the flooring and the 
underfloor heating. 
I note, however, that the heating system manufacturer suggests its product can be used with 
various types of flooring  whether thats wood, laminate, carpet or vinyl. Its fitting 
instructions suggest that the items can be used together, provided that the appropriate 
guidance is followed. It might have turned out that the pre-attached 1mm underlay on the 
flooring meant there was increased scope for movement. That doesnt mean the flooring 
itself was inherently unfit for purpose or of poor quality.
Ive thought about whether Mr Ps enquiry should have suggested to A that he intended to fit 
the flooring directly on top of the heating system. That might cause me to question whether 
the flooring was fit for a particular purpose Mr P had stated; that is, to fit directly over a 
specified underfloor heating system. But I havent seen anything that persuades me that he 
was that clear about how he intended to fit the heating system and flooring.
So I think Nationwide is entitled to hold the view that the problems Mr P has subsequently 
experienced with his flooring are unlikely to have arisen because of any issue of quality or 
fitness for purpose relating to the flooring itself that might amount to a breach of contract.
did A in some way misrepresent the flooring it was supplying?
Representations are statements made by parties during negotiations before entering into a 
contract. A misrepresentation is an untrue or substantially misleading statement of fact or 
law directed by one party towards another that induces the latter to enter into a contract with 
the former.
Theres no suggestion here that A said anything untrue or substantially misleading about the 
flooring itself. The issue at hand is whether As reply to Mr P (which I reproduced above) 
amounts to misrepresentation.
I dont have Mr Ps exact query  it was made in person. But he says he asked whether the 
flooring and his selected heating system were compatible. A said its flooring was fully 
compatible and didnt require additional underlay.
I can readily accept that Mr P went ahead with his purchase based on what A said. But Im 
not persuaded that what A said was factually wrong or misleading. The heating system 
manufacturers instructions dont specify any requirement for additional underlay. And Hs 
report suggests that use of more underlay would make the problem worse.Further, for reasons Ive already explained, I dont think A had any reason to say that the 
flooring was incompatible with the heating system. The linked document Mr P provided to A 
didnt exclude the use of the type of flooring it was supplying. Nor did the document specify 
that such flooring should only be fitted in conjunction with any additional products that the 
manufacturer specified in its fitting instructions. Mr P was installing the heating system and 
flooring himself. In responding to his enquiry, A would have been reasonably entitled to think 
he would be fitting the items in line with the manufacturers instructions. I dont think A was 
under an obligation to point out to Mr P that hed need further materials, or even that it knew 
this to be the case.
In this respect, then, I think Nationwide was entitled to conclude that it had no liability to Mr P 
in misrepresentation.
My final decision
Taking all of this into account, I find that Nationwide Building Society has acted fairly towards 
Mr P in response to his section 75 claim. It follows that, while I sympathise with his situation, 
I cant uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman