DRN-4290599
The complaint
Mr S complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) cancelled his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr S had been sold a PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments. In April 2023, he was 
notified that Pinnacle had decided it was no longer viable to offer PPI policies and that his 
cover would stop with effect from his renewal date of 31 August 2023. If Mr S still wanted 
cover, he was told he would need to find an alternative provider. 
Mr S did not agree with Pinnacles decision to cancel his policy. On 27 April 2023 decided to 
cancel the policy earlier than the renewal date. Mr S thought Pinnacle should refund some of 
his premiums. 
Pinnacle issued a final response letter in respect of Mr Ss complaint on 25 July 2023. It did 
not uphold the complaint and did not offer a refund of premiums. 
Our investigator considered the matter, but he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S did not agree with that view. He said that he was seeking compensation equivalent to 
at least the value of one years premiums. He thought it was poor practice to leave 
customers without alternative cover. 
As Mr S did not accept our investigators view, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
It may help if I clarify the role of this service. We do not regulate financial businesses and so 
I cannot tell a financial business to reinstate a product to the market if it has taken a 
commercial decision to withdraw it. I can consider Mr Ss individual complaint and whether 
Pinnacle acted fairly and within its terms and conditions when it did not renew his policy. 
The terms and conditions that apply to this policy say that the cover will be renewed each 
year unless it is cancelled by Mr S or Pinnacle has given notice of cancellation to Mr S at 
least 90 days before the renewal date. 
I understand a letter was sent to Mr S in April 2023 informing him that the cover would not 
continue after his renewal date of 31 August 2023. I am satisfied he was given more than 90 
days notice that the policy would be cancelled, and that Pinnacle acted within its terms and 
conditions.  
I know Mr S feels strongly that he should receive a refund of at least a years worth of 
premiums. But theres nothing in the terms and conditions to suggest that he should receive 
a refund in the event of cancellation. Theres no investment or savings element attached to 
the policy either. With all of this in mind, I cant say Pinnacle made a mistake when it said it 
would not refund any of Mr Ss premiums.   
It is clear from Mr Ss complaint form that he is very disappointed that his cover will not 
continue. But I cant tell Pinnacle to reinstate this policy to the market. I cant reasonably say 
it would be fair to tell Pinnacle to refund Mr S premiums in these circumstances for cover 
that has already been provided. I am satisfied Pinnacle acted within its terms and conditions 
when it decided not to renew Mr Ss policy. With all of this in mind, I dont require Pinnacle to 
take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Pinnacle Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman