DRN-4125074
The complaint
Mrs N complains on behalf of herself, and the estate of the late Mr N, about what happened 
when they asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to agree to the sale of part of their mortgaged 
property, which theyd developed into a separate home.
What happened
In 2020, Mr N asked Barclays to agree to the sale of part of the property that he and Mrs N 
had mortgaged with Barclays. They were then in the process of developing a barn on the 
land. Barclays agreed to that sale at the time.
Towards the end of July 2022, Mr Ns solicitors and then Mr N himself, spoke to Barclays, 
saying that they now intended to go ahead with the sale. Barclays said it couldnt agree to 
that happening right away, it would need to review the decision again, because the previous 
agreement had been some time ago. It appears as if Mr N had intended to complete the sale 
on the day he contacted Barclays. 
When Barclays was reconsidering whether it could release the mortgage on the part of the 
property, it made a mistake. Barclays told Mr N that he needed a fresh property valuation, 
because the last one was in 2012. It wasnt, Mr N had paid for a valuation in 2020, and that 
valuation was still valid. Barclays accepts this delayed its decision to allow Mr and Mrs N to 
go ahead with their sale. 
The property sold in September 2022. Mr N complained that Barclays had caused delays in 
the sale, which resulted in considerable financial loss for himself and Mrs N. Barclays said in 
October 2022 that it would pay some of the direct costs Mr N told it he and Mrs N had 
incurred, and £500 in compensation, but it wouldnt pay the full amount Mr N wanted. 
Mr N sadly, and quite unexpectedly, died in mid-November. 
Some time after this, Mrs N renewed this complaint with Barclays. At first, Barclays said it 
wouldnt pay any more. Then Barclays reconsidered the complaint, and decided it would pay 
all the individual amounts Mr N had asked for, plus £500 in compensation. But Mr N had 
wanted all of the individual amounts that hed requested multiplied by two, to allow for the 
emotional impact this complaint had on him and Mrs N. And Barclays wouldnt pay that. Mrs 
N has told Barclays that she feels it should honour Mr Ns original request. So she asked our 
service to look into this matter.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he was terribly sorry 
about what had happened to Mr N. And he accepted that any complaint would be stressful, 
but he couldnt say that Mr Ns death was most likely to have been caused by what Barclays 
did. He thought that Barclays had made a fair and reasonable offer to resolve things, so he 
didnt think it had to do any more. 
Mrs N said she didnt feel that £500 in compensation made up for what happened. She said 
shed seen the impact this complaint had on Mr N, and she said his health had been 
considered very good before this. She said that the outcome in no way represented the 
substantial distress that this had caused the late Mr N, her, and their family. And she told us 
about wider effects this had within the family. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say, before I begin, how very sorry Ive been to hear about what has happened 
here. I appreciate that this will have been terribly upsetting for Mrs N. 
Before Mr N sadly passed, he had set out for Barclays what he thought it should pay. That 
was as follows  
Credit card interest £2,266.69
Mortgage interest £646.06
HM Revenue and Customs interest £35.06
Additional legal expenses £720
Contribution to buyers additional costs £250
Refund of valuation survey fee £769.66
Time cost for pursuing complaint (£40 per hour) £480
Compensation for damage to credit rating £500
Total £5,667.47
Multiplied by 2, for emotional distress. £11,334.94
Barclays has paid everything included in the Total above, plus £500 in additional 
compensation. I understand Mrs N feels Barclays should honour the original amount that 
Mr N requested.
I appreciate that Mrs N does of course feel very strongly about this complaint. And all the 
more so, because I understand that she firmly believes that Barclays is at least partly, and 
perhaps mainly, responsible for her husbands unexpected death. I have considered all that 
Mrs N has said about this, but Im very sorry to have to tell Mrs N Im not able to conclude 
that it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Barclays responsible for that. 
I understand that Mr N was under a considerable amount of financial stress at the time, and 
that any delay in completion of this sale would have added to this. But I also have to take 
into account that it would be very difficult to untangle a number of different issues at the time 
which could also have contributed to family stress then. And, importantly, there unfortunately 
isnt clear medical evidence to support what Mrs N says here. So Im sorry to have to tell Mrs N that I cannot fairly base my decision in this case on the foundation that Barclays is to 
blame for Mr Ns death.
I do think that a mistake was made, and I can see Barclays accepts that. So what I have to 
think about is whether what it has done provides a fair and reasonable outcome here. I 
appreciate that for both Mrs N and her family, the losses have been terrible, but Ive 
explained that I just dont think I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for that. 
I think its worth reviewing here what Barclays has paid. Mrs N mentioned a figure of around 
£2,000 when she asked us to look into this complaint, but I think Barclays has paid a little 
over £6,000. I think its worth considering that, against what Mr N asked for. 
Barclays paid the additional interest that Mr N calculated he and Mrs N had paid across six 
credit cards in August and September, whilst waiting for this sale to complete. It paid the 
additional interest theyd paid on their mortgage, which they would otherwise not have 
needed to cover. And it paid some interest charged by HM Revenue and Customs during 
this time. 
Barclays also paid the additional solicitors costs Mr N said hed had to cover, as well as a 
contribution to additional costs incurred by the buyer, a family member. It refunded the 
second valuation fee it had charged. 
In addition to this, Barclays has also paid what Mr N asked for, in respect of the time he 
spent pursuing this complaint. Hed asked for £480 for that. I think its also worth noting that 
our service would consider this to be part of a compensation payment, rather than a 
payment to cover direct financial loss. 
Barclays also paid the amount of £500 which Mr N had requested for the damage to his and 
Mrs Ns credit ratings. Again, this isnt a direct financial loss, so our service would look on 
this as part of the compensation Barclays paid. 
Finally, Barclays paid £500 in addition to this, which it said it was paying as compensation. 
Setting this against the costs that Mr N requested, I can see Barclays has covered the direct 
financial losses that Mr N told it about, which totalled a little less than £4,700. But its most 
recent complaint response letter to Mrs N indicates Barclays has paid in total £6,167.47. So 
just under £1,500 of that payment is what our service would consider to be compensation for 
what went wrong. 
I know that Mrs N has said that no amount of money will ever be enough for what she 
considers Barclays is responsible for, and I do entirely understand her viewpoint here. But 
Ive explained that I havent been able to reach the same view on what Barclays is 
responsible for. And I do think that a payment which provides coverage for all the direct 
financial losses Mr N requested, and additional compensation of £1,480, does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I understand that Mrs N will be disappointed, and is unlikely to agree with my decision, but I 
dont think Barclays has to do more than it has already done in this case. So Im sorry to 
have to tell her that her complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and the 
estate of Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman