DRN-4263250
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that the Shawbrook Bank Limited dont increase the interest rate on their 
variable rate cash ISA when there the Bank of England base rate increases.
What happened
Mr I opened a variable rate cash ISA with Shawbrook. However, he noticed that Shawbrook 
didnt increase the interest rate on his variable rate ISA when the Bank of England increased 
the base rate. Mr I wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Shawbrook responded to Mr I and explained that the interest rate on their variable rate ISAs 
arent directly linked to the base rate and that any increases or decreases to the ISA variable 
rate was done at their discretion. Mr I wasnt satisfied with Shawbrooks response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they noted that Shawbrook hadnt 
acted outside the terms and conditions of their variable rate cash ISA  which didnt include 
any reference to the interest rate of the ISA being directly linked to the base rate  and so 
didnt feel that Shawbrook had acted unfairly as Mr I contended. Mr I remained dissatisfied, 
so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr I feels its unfair for Shawbrook to describe their variable rate case ISA as being variable 
rate, because the rate of interest doesnt increase automatically alongside increases in the 
Bank of England base rate.
But the interest rate on Shawbrooks variable rate cash ISA can change. And both the terms 
and conditions and the key features documents both explain that any change of interest rate 
will be at Shawbrooks discretion. Accordingly, Im satisfied that it is fair for Shawbrook to 
describe the ISA as a variable rate ISA.
It also must be noted that nowhere in the ISA terms and conditions or the key features 
documents does it state or imply that the rate of interest will increase automatically in 
response to increases in the Bank of England base rate. And, as the account holder, it was 
Mr Is responsibility to have reviewed and understood these documents before he committed 
to the account.
Mr I is also unhappy that Shawbrook dont automatically upgrade ISA account holders to 
newer issue ISAs that benefit from better rates of interest. However, Shawbrook have 
explained that its a commercial decision made by themselves to not automatically upgrade 
accounts as Mr I would like, and that upgrades are only completed on the request of an 
account holder. 
I dont feel its unreasonable for Shawbrook to place the onus on their account holders to 
request account upgrades, rather than process them automatically. And Im satisfied that this 
is a commercial decision that Shawbrook are fairly entitled to make.
Ultimately, I feel that Mr Is dissatisfaction here is based on an incorrect expectation on his 
part regarding the terms of the Shawbrook variable rate cash ISA. And Im satisfied that 
Shawbrook havent misled Mr I about the terms of their ISA in any way, but that Mr I himself 
appears to have not correctly understood the nature of the ISA he opened, despite the terms 
of that ISA being clearly described by Shawbrook.
All of which means that I dont feel that Shawbrook have acted unfairly here as Mr I 
contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Shawbrook to take any further or alternative action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr I 
was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman