DRN-1380312
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Where I refer to Aviva, I include its claims handlers and others for whose actions I hold Aviva 
responsible.
On 5 April 2019 Mrs Es vehicle came into contact with a third partys parked vehicle in a 
supermarket car park. 
She complained after she found out that her insurer Aviva had quoted an increased premium 
because it had settled the third partys claim.
Aviva sent a final response dated 12 November 2019 offering £125.00 compensation for the 
lack of communication. Unhappy with that, Mrs E brought her complaint to us later that 
month.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Aviva had assessed the claim fairly. She agreed the communication was poor but thought 
that Aviva has compensated fairly for this in offering £125.00.
Mrs E disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that: 
Aviva didnt send an engineer to inspect her car.
Aviva didnt chase up the minimal damage she reported.
Aviva didnt contact her or tell her the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas policy terms included the following term:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have 
full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
I dont consider that an unusual term in a motor insurance policy. It meant that  on the 
subject of whether to pay a third partys claim  Avivas view prevailed over Mrs Es.
The third party made a claim to her own insurer which repaired her vehicle. The third partys 
insurer wrote to Aviva on about 12 April 2019 to say it would seek reimbursement of its 
outlay. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs E on 22 May 2019. Mrs E called Aviva on 24 May 2019. She accepted 
that she had been involved in the incident. But she said she hadnt caused any damage to 
the third partys vehicle. 
Im satisfied that Aviva took into account what Mrs E said. But the third party and her insurer 
said Mrs E had caused damage  albeit not very costly.  
Im satisfied that Aviva weighed up the versions of events. It thought about what would likely 
happen if the third partys insurer issued court proceedings. It took the view that Mrs E 
wouldnt be able to show that she hadnt caused the repair bill to the third partys insurer.
About eight weeks after the incident, Aviva made a decision to settle the third partys claim 
without any inspection of Mrs Es vehicle. It paid the claim on 28 May 2019.
I keep in mind the policy term quoted above. Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva dealt with the 
third partys claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. I say that notwithstanding that its 
decision was likely to lead to a record of a fault claim against Mrs E and an increase in her 
premiums.
However, Aviva shouldve communicated its decision to Mrs E. I accept that she was under 
the impression that Aviva wasnt paying the third partys claim.  
Aviva failed to communicate the outcome before Mrs Es policy was becoming due for 
renewal. It quoted an increased premium for the following year. So Mrs E only found out 
what had happened when she called Aviva in November 2019.
At that point Mrs E had an opportunity to shop around for a lower premium. So I cant say 
that Aviva treated her unfairly by quoting its renewal premium.
Avivas lack of communication caused Mrs E some distress and inconvenience. But it offered 
her £125.00 which is at least as much as I would otherwise have directed it to pay for this. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mrs E any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman