DRN-3500710
The complaint
Miss C complains that Covea Insurance plc has voided (cancelled back to its start date) her 
contents insurance policy and declined to consider her claim for damage caused by an 
escape of water.
What happened 
Miss C took out a contents insurance policy with Covea in July 2019. In October 2019 she 
made a claim to Covea after her washing machine leaked a substantial amount of water in 
her flat. Covea proceeded with the claim and, during the validation process, Miss C 
mentioned that she had had a major flood loss in either 2015 or 2016 (she was unable to 
remember which) whilst she had contents insurance with another insurer (H). Miss C said 
that had resulted in the loss of many of her possessions. 
Covea appointed a drying expert that assessed the contents for damage. Some of Miss Cs 
damaged contents were deemed beyond economic repair (BER). A list was drawn up. 
Miss C asked that some of those items were left behind in her flat but others were removed 
in good faith by Covea and, ultimately, disposed of. Covea paid Miss C an amount (£1,250) 
on account so she could replace her damaged mattress and bedding.
Due to poor health, Miss C was unable to assist Covea with the value/make/models of the 
damaged items. So, as part of the validation process, Covea contacted H to see if it could 
assist with providing information about the items that it had replaced as part of the flood 
claim a few years earlier. 
During its investigations it came to light that Miss C had had her previous policy with H 
voided for fraudulent activity and had also failed to declare to Covea a number of other 
claims shed made. Covea told Miss C that it intended to investigate these claims further; 
Miss C said she was happy for it to contact H.
H told Covea about five claims Miss C had made since October 2016. It also said it had 
voided Miss Cs policy because itd been able to show that the last claim had been made 
fraudulently. H said itd sent a letter (by recorded delivery) to Miss C explaining that it was 
voiding her policy and why. Shortly after H conveyed its decision to Miss C she made a 
complaint about it but it then heard nothing further. 
Covea checked Miss Cs policy documents and noted that shed taken the policy out through 
a broker and had been asked about how many claims shed had in the last five years; she 
said she had had two claims. It also noted that shed answered no to the question about 
having any previous policies cancelled or voided. 
Covea wrote to Miss C in November 2020 to tell her that had discovered that shed had 
previous claims that she hadnt told it about and a policy previously voided. It said that had 
this information been disclosed to it at the time the policy was applied for then it wouldve 
declined to cover Miss C. For this reason, Covea said it had decided to void her policy from 
inception and treat it as though it never existed meaning her claim would be considered no 
further. It also said itd arrange for her premiums to be refunded.
Miss C complained to this service. She told our investigator that she could have lived with 
her water damaged items if shed really had to but now, because Covea had disposed of 
them, she couldnt get them back nor was it paying her anything towards them. She said it 
had paid her £1,250 but the total value of the goods Covea had disposed of was £20,000. 
Miss C also explained that because of her health issues, and the medication she took, she 
got confused with details and recollections. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint and said that hed listened to the sales call 
from the broker and was satisfied that Miss C had made a qualifying misrepresentation that 
allowed Covea to void her policy. But he said he couldnt agree with Covea that the 
misrepresentation had been deliberate or reckless, rather he thought the evidence indicated 
it was careless. That being the case, he said that it must return her premiums. Our 
investigator said that Covea had told him itd asked the broker to refund her premiums and 
that itd said that it hadnt passed the refund onto Miss C because there were some premium 
arrears she owed it, so itd offset the refund against them. 
Our investigator went on to consider Miss Cs complaint about her BER items and he said 
that although Covea had acted in good faith when it removed and disposed of the damaged 
items, if it hadnt done so, they couldve been returned to Miss C. So he recommended that 
Covea pay Miss C a sum equivalent to what it wouldve paid her if the claim had gone on to 
be successfully settled minus the amount itd already paid for the mattress. Whilst he noted 
that Miss C said the items thatd been removed were collectively worth about £20,000 he 
said there was no evidence provided in support such a valuation. Our investigator said 
Covea should pay the average value of the items disposed of. 
Covea disagreed with our investigators findings. It said that whilst is sympathised with 
Miss Cs health issues and had done everything it could to support Miss C throughout, it 
thought the correct decision had been taken to void the policy. It said Miss C had benefitted 
from an interim payment  to which she wasnt entitled as the policy had since been voided. 
Covea said the refund was up to the broker to pay but it also said there was some confusion 
around whether the broker had cancelled the policy (presumably for non-payment of 
premiums) prior to Covea communicating the voidance. It said that if it was the case that the 
policy had been cancelled then it was unlikely it would issue a refund if Miss C owed it a 
debt. It also said that if the policy had been cancelled before Covea notified it of the 
voidance then the only voidance Miss C would need to declare going forward was Hs. 
In respect of the BER items, Covea said that whether the claim was paid or not, Miss C 
would never have been able to use these items and wouldve had to have replaced them at 
her own cost. So, it said, it was unfair to asked to pay for items which it had not been paid to 
cover (because of the voidance). 
Our investigator looked at what Covea had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
He said that potentially, Miss C couldve re-used some of the items if theyd not been 
disposed of. He said that unless Covea could show they were all unusable at the point of 
disposal, then Miss C had been disadvantaged. 
Covea went back and looked at the claim again and found an email from its drying experts 
containing a list of BER items left on site at Miss Cs request (five items in all). It also said 
that even if itd not covered the claim then the BER items wouldve been disposed of by 
Miss C as they were no longer fit for purpose. It said if Miss C now claimed she wouldve 
made use of some of the items then why did she agree with the BER list before the disposal. 
Covea also said that there was evidence (in the form of a phone call between Miss C and 
the broker) that indicated Miss C was selective with the information she was providing to the 
broker which, it said, indicated she was acting either deliberately or recklessly in the way she 
presented her claim and insurance history. It said it couldnt accept Miss Cs point that she 
was unable to disclose Hs voidance because she knew nothing about it because it was 
clear, from the fact shed raised a complaint with H about it, that she did. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in April 2022 
recommending that the complaint was upheld in part. I made the following provisional 
findings: Like our investigator, I also think this complaint should be upheld, in part, but for different 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
The policy avoidance
As Covea says that Miss C misrepresented her insurance history when taking out the policy 
it has decided to void her policy back to the date it started. The relevant law in 
circumstances such as these is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012, known as CIDRA. CIDRA says that when taking out an insurance policy a 
consumer needs to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If they dont then 
the insurer can take certain steps providing the misrepresentation is a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
I can see from the statement of fact  which records the questions asked during the sale and 
the answers given  that Miss C said shed had only two claims in the last five years and that 
shed never had an insurance policy declined, cancelled or refused. In fact, from the 
information provided by H, I can see Miss C had five claims within the last five years and 
also had her policy with H cancelled on the grounds of fraud. I note too that during the sales 
call with the broker, the importance of answering questions accurately was stressed and 
understood by Miss C. 
Miss C has said she didnt mention that shed had a policy voided because she was unaware 
that was the case. But Ive seen the letter from H informing her (and the tracking receipt from 
Royal Mail) that her policy was to be voided (and why). And I also note that she almost 
immediately complained to H about its decision. So I cant accept that she was unaware of 
the voidance as she wouldnt have been able to complain about something she knew 
nothing about. So, I think its clear that misrepresentation occurred and that reasonable care 
wasnt taken to provide accurate answers to the questions asked. 
I now have to consider whether that misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation and 
Im satisfied that it was. Covea has provided us with information to show that it wouldnt have 
offered Miss C a policy if itd known about the voidance of the H policy and the fact Miss C 
had made five claims. Having established that to be the case, I then have to decide if the 
misrepresentation was made deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. In all three 
circumstances, Covea is entitled to void the policy. It can also retain the premiums if the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless but must return them if it is was careless. 
A qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate or reckless if Covea can show the 
policyholder:
Knew the information they were providing was untrue or misleading or did not care 
whether it was untrue or misleading; and
Knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to Covea, or 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to Covea.
Within Coveas claim file, theres a report dated October 2020 from its appointed agent. 
Amongst other things, this report noted:
Although Miss [C] appeared to be trying her best to be helpful, as can be seen her account 
was somewhat disjointed and there were clear gaps in her knowledge and recollection which 
she attributed to both the passage of time and the effects of her mental health and the 
medication she is taking. She also suggests that more recently, in July 2020, she had been 
diagnosed as [having a specific mental health condition].You will see she has, as you 
requested, provided a list of her medications, a number of which would appear to be likely to 
affect her coping ability and recollection
Given the content of the report I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude that the 
misrepresentation Miss C made was reckless or deliberate. I also say this because it seems that Covea only became aware Miss C had once had a policy with H because she brought it 
up in the interview with Coveas appointed agent. If her intention had been to deliberately 
deceive Covea and the broker about the voidance of her policy with H then I doubt she 
would have mentioned it during the interview. So I think the misrepresentation Miss C made 
to Covea should be considered to have been a careless one.
That means the premiums should be returned to Miss C however, there appears to be some 
confusion about what has happened to the policy and the premium refund. Miss Cs contract 
is with the broker. It is through the broker that her policy with Covea was arranged. It is to 
the broker that she pays the premium. Its reasonable to assume from the information 
available (but no doubt Covea will correct me if Im wrong) that the broker will have 
forwarded the annual premium onto Covea at the start of the policy year. It seems  given 
the brokers comments  that it then collected the premium in monthly instalments from 
Miss C. 
So although Covea has returned the premium to the broker, the broker has retained it in 
order to offset some of Miss Cs outstanding premiums. As the policy has been voided 
however, such a situation is clearly not fair because Miss C cant owe premiums on a policy 
that never existed. But she should only receive a refund of any premiums she has actually 
paid during the lifetime of the policy. And theres some evidence that she was in arrears on 
her payments to the broker.
I dont know how many premium instalments Miss C did pay whilst the policy was on risk 
between 20 July 2019 and 18 November 2020, and that isnt something I can look at here. 
Thats a matter for Miss C to raise with the broker. 
I can also see that it seems that the broker had, in fact, cancelled the policy with effect from 
20 February 2020, presumably because the monthly premiums were in arrears. Covea has 
told us that from the point the policy was taken out to the point it was cancelled (a period of 
8 months) the broker had contacted Miss C about payment on at least 6 occasions.
Whether the policy was cancelled or voided, I dont think Covea needs to do anymore in 
relation to refunding the premium to Miss C. It has credited the broker the premium in full so 
Miss C should now contact the broker directly if she paid any of her premium. If she has paid 
anything, given that Covea has told the broker that the policy needs to be recorded as 
voided rather than cancelled. she could be entitled to a refund. But thats a matter she will 
need to now raise with the broker. 
Disposal of damaged contents
Covea told us that it didnt think it would be fair to compensate Miss C for the disposed 
water-damaged items because, when it disposed of those items, it was acting  at that point 
in the claim - in good faith. I agree Covea was acting in good faith when it disposed of the 
water-damaged items. At the point it did so, Miss C had agreed to their removal and disposal 
and there was no indication that the claim would not proceed to settlement. 
Despite this being the case however, if Covea had not disposed of those items during the 
course of the claim, then they could have been returned to Miss C when the policy was 
voided and the claim declined. So I am of the view that Covea is responsible for the 
destruction of the damaged contents it removed as BER. 
But I cant reasonably require Covea to pay the average value of those items; that wouldnt 
be fair. Thats because there is no policy in existence and Covea has no liability for the 
claim. The fair resolution to this situation is to put Miss C back in the position she would have 
been (or as close to that as possible) but for Coveas error in disposing of the items before the claim was concluded. For me to require Covea to pay the average value of the items 
disposed of wouldnt achieve this; that would place Miss C in a better position than she 
should be but for Coveas actions. 
If Covea had retained the BER items it couldve returned them in their damaged condition to 
Miss C. But as the actual items no longer exist, I cant make Covea return them. Covea says 
the items were all BER, and I agree, but that doesnt mean they had no value; the items, at 
disposal, may have retained some residual value. In order to put Miss C back in the position 
she shouldve been, Covea will need to calculate the residual value of the items it removed 
and disposed of as BER. Once it has done so, I think that it is only fair that it deducts the 
payment on account it made to Miss C early in the claim so that she could replace her bed. 
Miss C should be aware that because the policy was voided, she wasnt entitled to receive 
that payment. If there is a balance to be paid, Covea should then add interest at this 
services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date it voided the policy to the date it 
settles my award.
Miss C responded to my provisional decision and said that she had tried to resolve the 
situation herself before making the claim to Covea and she said shed told Covea that she 
had tried to do so because shed had bad experiences making a claim in the past. So, she 
said, this was evidence that she hadnt tried to hide her previous claims from Covea. Miss C 
also said shed spoken to Covea when she was in hospital because she was keen to try and 
co-operate and that she was now going to have a black mark against her name even though 
shed not intended to deceive Covea. 
Covea replied to my provisional decision to say that, whilst it didnt agree with the outcome, it 
was prepared to accept it. It also shared with us its review and valuation of the BER items 
from the claim. It provided us with a spreadsheet that showed the total valuation of the BER 
items was £787. Covea said that, as a consequence, it wouldnt be making any further 
payment to Miss C. Covea also said that it had no choice about how to categorise the 
voidance (i.e. whether it was reckless, deliberate or careless) on the external claims 
database. So it said the voidance had been recorded as breach of conditions.
In response to Coveas calculations Miss C said that she didnt think the payment she 
received for the mattress and bedding (£1,250) should be offset against the total for the 
items BER because it (the £1,250) was for items that should not have disposed of in the first 
place. She said Covea shouldnt have disposed of her mattress and bedding so it was only 
fair that it had paid her to replace those items. She said it wasnt fair for it to now use that 
payment to offset the overall total owed to her for the items deemed BER. 
The complaint was returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss C said in response to my provisional decision but unfortunately 
it hasnt persuaded me to change my mind about her complaint. As I said provisionally, 
I appreciate there was no deliberate attempt on her part to mislead Covea. But it is an 
unfortunate consequence of making a misrepresentation  even a careless (unintentional) 
one  that there will be a marker against her name and that she will need to declare the 
voidance to any future insurer.
Covea has provided a spreadsheet that lists out the BER items and the value it has 
attributed to each one. There are 27 items in all and the total value attributed to all the items is £787. As I explained in my provisional decision, although I appreciate that Covea was 
acting in good faith when it disposed of those items deemed BER, if it hadnt done so then 
they couldve been returned to Miss C when the policy was voided and the claim was 
declined. Miss C has suffered a loss of the BER items and the fair resolution in a situation 
such as this is for her to be put back in the position she wouldve been in (or as close as is 
possible) but for Coveas error in disposing of the items before the claim was concluded. 
If everything had happened with the claim as it should have then Covea wouldve returned 
the BER items to Miss C when the claim was declined. Miss C wouldve been left with items 
in their damaged state. Unfortunately, just because Covea disposed of the damaged items in 
error, Miss C isnt entitled to new replacement items (or an equivalent cash amount). So 
Miss C was never entitled to receive a cash amount of £1,250 from Covea for her damaged 
mattress and bedding. However, she did in fact do so. And she is in a better financial 
position as a consequence than she otherwise shouldve been.
So whilst Ive thought about what Miss C has said about not offsetting the amount she 
received from Covea for the mattress and the bedding from the overall total of the BER items 
I cant fairly agree with her that doing so would be reasonable. I know Covea disposed of her 
mattress and bedding but it disposed of a damaged mattress and bedding. It didnt dispose 
of an undamaged mattress and bedding. As Miss C should be placed back into the position 
she shouldve been in but for Coveas error, I cant reasonably require Covea to ignore the 
payment it made her. That wouldnt be putting Miss C back into the position she shouldve 
been in but for Coveas errors. Miss C wasnt entitled to receive the full replacement value of 
the mattress and the bedding. She is only entitled to the residual value of these items in their 
damaged state. 
And unfortunately for Miss C the total valuation of all the BER items falls below the amount 
Covea has already paid out to her in error. As I said provisionally, Covea needed to calculate 
the residual value of the items it disposed of as BER. Then, it could deduct the amount it had 
paid Miss C in error (£1,250). Since my provisional decision was issued, Covea calculated 
the residual value of the BER items to be £787. It is clear that this amount is less than the 
sum Miss C had already received so there is no balance for Covea to pay and no interest to 
be added. 
Ive seen a screenshot of the external claims database and note that the voidance has been 
recorded as a breach of conditions. I dont think that Covea need to do any more in this 
respect. 
As neither party has provided any other comments in response to my provisional decision, 
my provisional findings now form part of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
On this occasion I am not requiring Covea to do anything more. That is because Covea has 
now shown how the voidance was recorded on the external claims database and Im 
satisfied that is a fair record. So it need take no further action in this respect. Further, it has 
also now calculated the residual value of the contents items it disposed of and has shown 
that there is no balance due to Miss C. So there is nothing for me to require it to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. But Im not requiring Covea Insurance 
Plc to do anything more as explained in the putting things right section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman