DRN-2174978
The complaint
Mr W said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with 
a loan in 2008.
 
What happened
Lloyds Bank didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold  
because it thought Mr W had made the complaint too late. Lloyds Bank said it had written 
letters to its consumers warning them something may have gone wrong with their PPI sales. 
Two letters were sent to Mr W in 2014. So Lloyds Bank concludes he should have 
complained then. 
But Lloyds Bank did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of Mr Ws PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr W about the high level of 
commission and profit share he would pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ws complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloyds Banks payment was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr W disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. He said he 
did not receive the letters in 2014; he didnt know there was a time limit and he didnt know 
he could have complained about the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds Bank hasnt agreed.  
Mr Ws complaint was made in July 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds Bank sold 
the policy to him in 2008  which is the event he is complaining about here. 
So I now need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr 
W should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
Lloyds Bank says it sent Mr W letters in June and August 2014 which alerted Mr W to the 
possibility something might have gone wrong with his policy sale.  Given what Mr W is 
complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had reason to 
complain if he got the first letter in June 2014. I say this because the letter said the PPI 
should have been shown as optional  but Mr W said it was sold to him as a compulsory 
product. And I should point out here the three year time limit starts when the letter is sent  
not when it is received.
Mr W says he didnt get the letters  and Ive thought about this. I can see the letters show 
they were sent to the right address. And I havent been told about any reason why Mr W 
might not have received them (like problems with his post). So Im satisfied they were most 
likely to have been delivered correctly.
This means Mr W needed to make his complaint about the policy sale by June 2017. As he 
didnt complain until 2019 his complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
Mr W has told us about some difficult lifetime events and health problems he and his son 
have been experiencing in 2018 and 2019. I do accept Mr W had been going through a 
difficult period. But Im satisfied Mr W could still have made a complaint by 2017 because he 
told us the events he described happened after the three year time limit expired. So 
exceptional circumstances dont apply here. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr W with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Finally, as I explained above, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was more than half what the PPI cost  because it didnt tell Mr W about 
this.
On the face of it, that seems likely to me to be a fair resolution to Mr Ws complaint. 
Particularly when  as our adjudicator explained and from what weve seen so far  Lloyds 
Bank has been working out payments like these correctly. So if Mr W now agrees that Lloyds 
Banks payment resolves this part of the complaint, he doesnt need to do anything further. 
To be clear though, if were asked to make a final decision on the payment we wont be 
revisiting the time limit issues Ive decided here.
My final decision
Im unable to look into Mr Ws complaint about how his policy was sold, as it was made out 
of time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman