DRN-4426025
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund the money he 
lost as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service through a representative. For ease I will refer 
solely to Mr A in this decision.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the details of the scam I will not repeat them in full here. In 
summary, Mr A made four payments between 13 April 2021 and 21 April 2021 to his 
cryptocurrency account. From there he moved the money to an online trading platform. He 
had responded to an advert about financial investments on an online video sharing platform 
and was then contacted by the scammer. The payments totalled £3,900 and the highest was 
for £2,000. The first was made by debit card and the subsequent ones were all faster 
payments. Mr A realised he had been scammed when he was unable to access his funds 
and the scammer blocked him when he tried to make contact. It is not clear when this was; 
he complained to the bank on 27 October 2022.
Mr A says Halifax did not do enough to protect him and must refund the payments. Halifax 
says the payments were not high value or out of character enough such that it should have 
flagged them as suspicious and intervened. It also said there were red flags that ought to 
have prompted Mr A to complete further checks before proceeding.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He said Halifax acted fairly and reasonably 
as the payments were not so out of character that there was reason for it to intervene. And 
as Mr A had moved the money onwards from his cryptocurrency account, Halifax could not 
reasonably have been expected to successfully recover the funds.
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, these were the only transactions in excess of £1,000 in the 12 months prior and 
they were to a new payee that was a cryptocurrency exchange  this should have triggered 
a warning or intervention; Halifax failed to exercise its right to prevent this fraud; and the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code places obligations on Halifax that it has not 
met. He thinks these payments should fall under the code regardless of the fact they went to 
an account in his name.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr A made and authorised the payments. Mr A understood why he 
was making the payments and who he was sending the money to. At the stage he was 
making these payments, he believed he was firstly transferring money to a cryptocurrency 
account in his name in order to move on and invest. I dont dispute Mr A was scammed and 
he wasnt making the transfers for the reasons he thought he was, but I remain satisfied the 
transactions were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Halifax has an obligation to follow Mr As instructions. So in the
first instance Mr A is presumed liable for his losses. But there are other factors to take into 
account. 
I have considered the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. To note, as the payments 
were to an account in Mr As name the principles of the CRM code do not apply in this case.
So, overall, I think that Halifax should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think Halifax ought to be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
I dont think the payments ought to have triggered an intervention from Halifax. I accept they 
were to a new payee that was at cryptocurrency exchange, but it was a legitimate platform 
and Mr A had made transfers of £4,200 (so in excess of the total value here) to another 
account in his name in February and March 2021. There was a payment of £2,200 and two 
of £1,000 which I would say were very similar to these transactions making them not out of 
character. So in the round, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly when it did not identify the 
payments as suspicious and intervene.
Mr A argues these payments should fall under the CRM code but for the code to apply the 
payment has to be made to an account held by another person. This service does not have 
the power to select the circumstances under which the guidance in the code applies.
Mr A also says Halifax ought to have intervened as he has difficulties reading and writing in 
English and the bank should have been aware of this. Mr A recalls that he told the bank this 
when he opened the account. He cannot provide any supporting evidence. However, Halifax 
has confirmed it was not on notice of Mr As difficulties with English. 
As the evidence here is contradictory, I have to make a finding on this point based on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. And on balance, I cannot conclude with certainty that 
Halifax was on notice about Mr As difficulties. I dont doubt that Mr As testimony is his 
honest recollection, but I think the bank would have recorded his difficulties with reading and 
writing in English had it been told. It has a process to do so, and it would have anticipated 
this would be important information to capture.  So I dont think Halifax was most likely aware 
of Mr As vulnerabilities until this complaint investigation. I trust it will now record them and 
find out what reasonable adjustments Mr A requires.I have also considered if Halifax did enough to try to recover Mr As money once he reported 
the scam. It seems this was many months after the payments were made and not until the 
point of complaint. Mr A knew he had allowed the scammer access to the cryptocurrency 
account in his name to move the money on. So I dont think Halifax could reasonably have 
done anything to recover the money in the circumstances. I can see that Halifax didnt 
attempt a chargeback claim for the debit card payment. I think that decision was reasonable 
as it would have been out of time under the rules of the chargeback scheme - plus the 
cryptocurrency exchange had provided a service to Mr A as he expected.
It follows I am not instructing Halifax to refund any money to Mr A. This is a difficult decision 
to make, Im sorry Mr A has lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand why 
he would like to be compensated for his losses. I do accept he has fallen victim to a 
sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in 
the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out 
above I do not find Halifax can be held liable in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman