DRN-3185346
The complaint
Mrs S, and Mr W on behalf of the estate of the late Mr S, complain that their second home 
insurance policy was mis-sold to them by their broker BHIB Limited. 
What happened
In October 2016 Mr and Mrs S arranged a home insurance policy for their second home 
through their broker BHIB. The policy renewed in October 2017 with the renewal pack being 
sent to Mr and Mrs S about a month before. 
In March 2018 there was an escape of water at Mr and Mrs Ss second home whilst it was 
unoccupied. They made a claim on their policy, however, the insurer declined it by relying on 
the unoccupancy exclusion it contained (that loss or damage to the property isnt covered 
when the home hasnt been lived in for more than 60 consecutive days). Mr and Mrs S said 
that this requirement had never been brought to their attention and that their property had 
been attended and inspected by themselves and their friends/neighbours on a regular basis. 
They also said the policy terms required the property to be lived in rather than occupied 
overnight. So they said they had complied with the policy conditions. 
Unfortunately the insurer maintained its decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ss claim so they 
complained, both to the insurer and to BHIB, whom, they said, had mis-sold the policy to 
them. Mr and Mrs S said BHIB was aware of the occupancy patterns at their second home 
yet it sold them an unsuitable policy that left them unable to make a successful claim.. And 
they said they had never been asked if the property remained unoccupied. 
BHIB looked into their complaint and issued its final response in August 2018; BHIB said it 
didnt think itd done anything wrong. It said the policys unoccupancy exclusion was very 
clear and, it said, it had specifically drawn the relevant terms to Mr and Mrs Ss attention 
when putting the policy in place. 
Unhappy with the outcome of BHIBs investigation, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to 
this service in October 2018. They also referred a complaint to us about the insurer; that 
complaint was investigated and closed before we began investigating this complaint. Sadly, 
Mr S passed away in April 2020. The executors of his estate are Mrs S and Mr W; Mr W has 
now been joined to this complaint. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Mrs S told our investigator that she and Mr S had 
been told by BHIB that the only criteria they needed to meet regarding unoccupancy was the 
requirement that the property be maintained at a temperature of 13 degrees centigrade if the 
building was unoccupied for 14 consecutive days or more between October and March 
inclusive. Mrs S also told our investigator that BHIB had advised her to tell the insurer that 
they had previously been mistaken and that they had, in fact, been at the property within 60 
days of the escape of water. And she said the policy could never have been suitable 
because BHIB knew it would stand unoccupied for periods of more than 60 days. 
BHIB told our investigator that it considered Mr and Mrs S had based their decision to 
purchase the policy based on the amount of premium quoted. It said itd highlighted the 
unoccupancy requirement to them and that they had been aware of the 60-day occupancy 
clause as evidenced by Mrs S calling the insurer back to check whether the date she was 
last at the property would compromise her claim. BHIB maintained its position that the 
occupancy requirement had been highlighted so was within Mr and Mrs Ss knowledge. 
Our investigator issued his view of the complaint in mid-November 2021. He said he didnt 
think BHIB had sold Mr and Mrs S an unsuitable policy so he didnt recommend that the 
complaint was upheld. He said that all the relevant information hed expect to be provided 
when recommending or arranging a sale was provided to Mr and Mrs S by BHIB. He also 
thought the key terms and benefits of the policy were prominent in the documentation as 
were the questions asked, and answers given, that formed the basis of the quote. And he 
noted that the cover provided by the insurer, and on what terms it was offered, was also 
provided by BHIB to Mr and Mrs S. He said it was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to read the 
documentation they were given and to seek clarification if necessary. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators findings. She said BHIB had always disputed the 
insurers definition of unoccupied and that itd said it would sell them the same policy again 
because it considered it suitable for their needs. Mrs S said the policy would never have 
been of any use no matter what form a claim took  be that for fire, theft etc.  because all 
would be repudiated because the property stood empty for longer than 60 days in one go. 
And finally, Mrs S said our investigator hadnt commented on her complaint that shed been 
advised by BHIB to lie to the insurer. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again and responded to Mrs S. He said he wasnt 
persuaded to change his mind by the points Mrs S had made. He sent Mrs S some 
snapshots from the statement of fact on the policy schedule that showed they had told BHIB 
that the property wouldnt be left unoccupied for more than 60 days. He also referred to an 
email sent by BHIB to Mr and Mrs S which set out that their policy was based upon 
information theyd given to the insurer and asked them, once cover commenced, to let it 
know of any changes to the information given to the insurer. He referred to a checklist that 
BHIB had included in the email which included notifying BHIB if the home was unoccupied 
for more than 30 days. Our investigator said he was satisfied that Mr and Mrs S understood 
what was meant by unoccupied.
Our investigator went on to say that hed seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs S had told BHIB 
that the property would be empty for months at a time. He said he was only looking at the 
sale not at the behaviour of any staff at BHIB. And he said the incident Mrs S had referred to 
had no bearing on whether the policy was mis-sold or not. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment this decision will cause Mrs S and Mr W, I dont think this 
complaint can reasonably be upheld.
This is a complaint about Mr and Mrs S being unhappy with the policy they bought in 2016. 
In short, they came to believe that the policy sold to them by BHIB wasnt suitable for their 
needs because it required their second home not to be unoccupied for more than 60 
consecutive days at a time for the escape of water cover to be valid. Mrs S has said that 
BHIB was aware of how they used the property and that it could stand empty for longer than 
60 days at a time yet it went ahead and sold them the policy anyway. It seems to me that this was an advised sale. That means BHIB recommended the policy as 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss needs. It also means that BHIB was required to do undertake 
some extra checks to make sure it was the right policy for them. 
I can see that at the point of sale, BHIB asked Mr and Mrs S some questions. The questions 
asked, and the answers they gave, are contained in the Statement of Fact, which forms part 
of the documents they were sent at the time of the sale and at the following renewal. Within 
the pack of documents sent to Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale it prominently states what 
they need to do next, below which it tells them to read the document and check the level of 
cover meets their needs. It also says that if they have any questions or need to make any 
changes then they should contact BHIB. Towards the end of the pack on page 9 it sets out 
information requested about anyone covered by the policy and the information provided 
about the property; a list of 18 questions and statements are listed. Of particular significance 
is statement 9: Your home is not left unoccupied for more than 60 consecutive days.
The existence of statement 9 means that, at the point of sale, Mr and Mrs S were asked by 
BHIB if their home was to be unoccupied for more than 60 days and that they had said it 
wouldnt be. Mr and Mrs S proceeded with the sale, and later renewed the policy, and in so 
doing accepted the accuracy of the statements theyd provided to BHIB. And the Statement 
of Fact itself includes a section on the duty of disclosure. There it says that the policyholder 
should check that all details and statements are true and any failure to advise of any 
inaccuracies or omissions may mean the policy wont protect them in the event of a claim.
So, the documentation Ive seen from the time of the sale and the renewal appears to me to 
be in order. BHIB did what was required of it for an advised sale and theres no evidence it 
made an error based on the information to it by Mr and Mrs S which would allow me to fairly 
conclude itd sold Mr and Mrs S an unsuitable policy. All the relevant information I would 
expect to see when recommending and arranging an insurance policy of this nature was 
provided to Mr and Mrs S. It was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to read the documentation 
they were provided with and to make sure the policy theyd been sold met their 
requirements. 
I know that Mrs S has said that her and Mr S, friends and neighbours, regularly checked the 
property, and the policy terms required the property to be lived in rather than occupied 
overnight. She said that the regular checks meant the property was lived in. Im unable to 
agree. The policy does define what it means by unoccupied, namely not lived in by you or 
your family and friends for more than 60 consecutive days. I cant reasonably agree with 
Mrs S that the regular checks meant the property was lived in. I think that lived in can 
reasonably be said to mean occupying or residing rather than popping in to check all was 
well. And I cant hold BHIB responsible for Mr and Mrs Ss interpretation of "unoccupied" 
unless there is evidence to show BHIB advised them at the time of the sale that regular 
checking meant the property would be deemed occupied. 
Ive thought about what Mrs S has said about BHIB being well aware of the patterns of use 
of the property (in other words that theyd told it the property was regularly unoccupied for 
periods in excess of 60 days) and that it sold them an unsuitable policy regardless but, 
unfortunately, theres no documentary evidence that Ive seen that shows it was. And, if this 
was indeed the case, namely that they had told BHIB that the property would be unoccupied 
for such lengthy periods, then in so doing they were directly contradicting the statement 
theyd given to the contrary on the Statement of Fact.
 
I note too the communications between BHIB and Mr and Mrs S in relation to the minimum 
temperature required at the property if unoccupied for 14 days or more between the months 
of October and March. This was a deemed by the insurer to be a significant clause and was placed with prominence it policy booklet. This clause isnt the same as the unoccupancy 
exclusion for escape of water claims (that meant the claim was declined). The unoccupancy 
clause applies at all times of the year. 
Ive also seen the email from BHIB to Mr and Mrs S sent in October 2016 providing 
important information about the policy and asking them to notify BHIB if they were unsure of 
anything. It stated that the policy was based on the information provided so they must take 
reasonable care to answer all questions accurately and notify it of any changes in any of the 
information provided. The email then listed some examples of when it would be advisable to 
contact BHIB one of which was if the property was to be unoccupied for more than 30 days. 
I cant look here at Mrs Ss complaint that she was advised by BHIB to lie to the insurer as it 
doesnt form part of her original complaint to BHIB about the sale of the policy. This 
complaint is about the 2016 sale and not about how BHIB or its staff acted when Mr and Mrs 
S were faced with a declined claim. 
And finally, the fact that the property was empty for periods in excess of 60 days didnt 
render the entire policy pointless. Some of the cover provided (say for damage caused by 
storm, or fire) didnt exclude cover if the property was unoccupied. 
So it follows that I cant reasonably uphold this complaint. Im satisfied from the available 
evidence that BHIB didnt sell Mr and Mrs S an unsuitable policy in 2016. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W 
and the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman