DRN-1676609
The complaint
Ms D took out a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in May 
2002 and she says it was mis-sold.
What happened
Ms D took out the following accounts with Lloyds:
Account Type Date of sale/change
Current Fee free December 1981
Select AVA (SAVA) Fee charged September 2001
Gold AVA (GAVA) Fee charged May 2002
Account downgraded Fee Free March 2012
Ms D says that she took out the GAVA because she believed she had to in order to get an 
overdraft. She says that she didnt use the benefits of the GAVA very much, she didnt 
receive enough information about it, and it was unsuitable for her.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Ms D disagrees so the case 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide Ms Ds complaint.
To be clear Ms D complained to Lloyds about the sale of her Select AVA, and Lloyds has 
upheld her complaint and paid redress. So, this decision is only about the sale of the GAVA.
Ill first consider whether Ms D knew she had a choice about taking out the GAVA; then 
whether Lloyds acted correctly when making the sale.
Ms D says she wasnt told that she could have a fee free account with an overdraft at the 
time of the sale. She says she was led to believe she had to take out a GAVA to get an 
overdraft. 
Lloyds has provided evidence that Ms D had had a fee free bank account and a SAVA, 
which she paid a monthly fee for, for many years before she took out the GAVA. So, in my 
view she was an experienced user of banking facilities. 
At the time of sale, fee free bank accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised and 
available from Lloyds and other financial institutions. So, if Lloyds had told her she had to 
pay a fee for an account with an overdraft, I think its likely she would have challenged this 
and found what she wanted elsewhere.
Lloyds has also provided copies of her statements from the time of sale and several months 
later. And her account appears to have been in good order and she didnt use the GAVA 
overdraft facility over that period.
So, I dont think I can say that Ms D had no knowledge of fee free bank accounts with 
overdrafts and took the GAVA because of a strong desire to have an overdraft facility, as I 
would have to in order to uphold her complaint on this point.
So, I think its more likely than not that Ms D was aware that fee free bank accounts with 
overdrafts were available to her from Lloyds and others at the time of the sale, but she chose 
to take out the GAVA and pay the monthly fee for it. 
Lloyds advised Ms D to take out the GAVA. So, the requirement on Lloyds was to check 
whether the account was suitable for Ms D and provide enough information to her to make 
an informed choice about the GAVA.
The GAVAs benefits include worldwide family travel insurance, Sentinel card protection, 
120-day purchase protection, extended warranty, travel accident insurance, accidental death 
benefit, £100 interest free overdraft; and a variety of discounted services. The GAVA cost £8 
per month.
Lloyds needed to ensure the GAVA was suitable for Ms D. I dont know how well it did this, 
but Ms D appears to have booked a holiday immediately after the sale and there was no 
aspect of the GAVAs benefits that she wasnt eligible for. Ms D couldve closed the account 
at any time, but she didnt and continued with it for many years.
So, I think its more likely than not that the GAVA was suitable for her. 
I dont know exactly how the GAVA was presented to Ms D, but Lloyds was trying to sell Ms 
D the account. So, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds explained the benefits in some 
detail.  Lloyds says it provided Ms D with a booklet about the GAVA, and Ms D later used 
some of the benefits.
So, I think its more likely than not that she knew enough about what she was buying for her 
to decide that it was worth her while to do so, and that if she knew more it wouldnt have put 
her off buying the GAVA.
Ms D says she had a significant medical condition from before the sale in May 2002 that 
might have excluded her from using the travel insurance. However, the travel insurance 
covered her whole family and it didnt exclude pre-existing medical conditions; it only 
required the applicant to declare them. Im aware of the nature of Ms Ds medical conditions 
and I think its more likely than not she would have obtained cover either for free or for a 
small competitive additional premium if shed tried to use her GAVA travel insurance. And 
she doesnt appear to have lost out through making a claim on the insurance which has 
been turned down.
So overall, I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the GAVA to Ms D or that she lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did or didnt do.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman