DRN-4364412
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that a Santander UK Plc cash machine (ATM) didnt dispense money when 
it should have done. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 4 December 2022 Mr W attended a Santander ATM to make a withdrawal (from his 
account with Santander). He says the person in front of him successfully received their 
money. But when he came to use the ATM, he requested £100, and nothing came out. Mr W 
then called a number provided on the ATM and informed Santander of this. He says he was 
advised to use another ATM in the area which he did, this time successfully receiving his 
£100 cash. 
Mr W says he was left with two £100 ATM withdrawals debiting his account when only one 
had been successful. Santander accepted there had been an error with the machine and 
credited his account with £100 the next day (5 December 2022). And following Mr Ws 
complaint, they credited his account with £20 and apologised for any inconvenience. 
Mr W remained unhappy, he doesnt think the compensation is sufficient and believes that 
Santander have written something unique to him into their software which is what caused 
him a problem with the ATM when it worked for the previous user. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend that Santander 
needed to do more. Mr W disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr W is unhappy with Santander about a variety of issues, but this decision is only 
about his complaint surrounding the ATM withdrawals in December 2022. I appreciate it was 
inconvenient for Mr W to not receive his cash at Santanders ATM. And whilst Im not aware 
of the specific nature of the fault with the ATM, Ive seen nothing to support that the fault was 
specific to Mr W or that he was targeted by Santander in any way. 
No machine is infallible, and ATMs can go out of service or develop faults for a variety of 
reasons. But here, I can see that Mr W was able to get hold of his cash from another ATM 
soon after his failed withdrawal attempt. And Santander very promptly refunded him the next 
day  which is what Id expect. 
I appreciate Mr W says he never received a letter from Santander. But I can see their 
complaint response was correctly addressed. And so I dont think there was an error by 
Santander in relation to this. The letter included an apology and explained the £20 that had 
been credited to his account. Ive considered the service provided by Santander overall in 
relation to this matter, and I think the £20 compensation along with the apology is sufficient 
to put things right. So, Im not going to direct them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman