DRN-4138436
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs S had a plumbing and drainage policy for a property she rented to tenants. Water was 
leaking from a hot water cylinder pipe. So, Mrs S contacted Aviva to send an engineer. The 
engineer visited and dealt with Mrs Ss tenant. The engineer told the tenant the issue was 
with an overflow pipe and that he had cleared limescale from the tundish and the water was 
now draining into a pipe. The tenant wanted the pressure relief valve replaced, but the 
engineer said he couldnt do this, as it wasnt covered by the policy.
The engineer left and Mrs S arranged for her own plumber to visit. The plumber said the 
pressure relief valve needed to be replaced and that water was also dripping onto the 
electrics. The pressure relief valve was replaced shortly after. Mrs S complained to Aviva, as 
she said the engineer should have replaced the valve and that all the engineer suggested 
was to turn off the water at the mains. She said it wouldnt have been acceptable to leave 
her tenant, who was disabled, without water to drink or bathe.
When Aviva replied, it said its engineer was correct to say replacing the valve wasnt 
covered. However, as the engineer seemed to speak over the tenant during a phone call 
with Aviva, it said it would provide feedback on this point.
When Mrs S complained to this service, our investigator said Aviva had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy in how it dealt with the claim. However, she said Aviva 
should pay Mrs S £100 compensation due to the stress caused to her by water being found 
to be leaking onto the electrics by the plumber that then visited.
As both Aviva and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 April 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy was for plumbing and drainage and covered issues such as leaking pipes and 
blocked drains, sinks and toilets. This included Repairs to a water leak from central heating 
pipes, radiator valves and control valves. However, it didnt cover Replacement of 
radiators, hot water cylinders (and their unique and integrated components - such as 
pressure release valves) and central heating components (such as system filters and 
pumps), unless there is no other way to stop the leak. I note this policy wasnt one that 
covered the whole central heating system. For example, the policy documents said it didnt 
cover issues such as boiler breakdowns. 
Ive listened to the phone call the engineer made to Aviva about the policy cover and read 
the notes the engineer wrote straight after. During the phone call, the engineer said it wasnt 
a leak, it was an issue with the overflow from the cylinder. The tenant was there for some of 
the call and said the only way to carry out a repair was to replace the pressure release valve 
and that the leak wasnt containable. The engineer told Aviva he had cleared limescale from 
the tundish, which meant water was now going down the overflow pipe and wasnt causing 
any damage. Im aware Mrs S has said the engineer didnt clear limescale from the tundish, 
but I havent seen evidence that persuades me the engineer inaccurately described what he 
did.
The engineer told the tenant the claim wasnt covered because a valve was needed. When 
another plumber carried out a repair, they said the combined valve, which I understand is 
the same as a pressure release valve, had failed and so replaced it. So, from what Ive seen, 
Avivas engineer correctly explained what the issue was. 
The policy said it didnt provide cover to replace pressure release valves. The only time it 
would do so was if there was no other way to stop the leak. However, from what Ive seen, 
there was another way to stop the leak, which was by isolating the water and draining that 
part of the system. Im aware this wouldnt have repaired the leak, but this part of the policy 
referred to stopping the leak, not repairing it. 
I note the policy provided cover to Drain and isolate a leaking hot water cylinder/ radiator. 
Im aware Mrs S has said the engineer told the tenant he could turn the water off at the 
mains and that this would have left her tenant without drinking water or the ability to bathe 
and use the toilet. She said the engineer didnt suggest he could isolate the hot water only. 
Its my understanding that Mrs S wasnt there during the visit. During the phone call I listened 
to, which took place during the visit, the engineer told Aviva he could isolate the water and 
drain the system. Aviva asked whether this would leave the tenant without a water supply to 
the property. The engineer said there only wouldnt be hot water. So, I havent seen 
evidence that what the engineer offered to do would have left the tenant without any water.
Mrs S was also concerned there was water dripping onto the electrical wiring. During the 
phone call, the engineer told Aviva the water was safely draining away. During the call, the 
tenant was clearly concerned there was electrical wiring close by, but he didnt say there 
was water dripping onto it at that time. The engineer later said to the tenant that he could 
isolate the water, but the tenant declined this offer. By the time Mrs Ss engineer arrived, 
water seemed to be dripping onto the electrics. But I havent currently seen evidence that 
persuades me this was happening while Avivas engineer was there. The engineer also 
couldnt isolate the water supply as the tenant had said he didnt want him to do so. So, I 
dont currently think the engineer can fairly be held responsible for water being found 
dripping onto the electrics by the next engineer.
Having carefully thought about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this 
complaint or to require Aviva to do anything further. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to 
decline to replace the valve. The engineer dealt with the immediate leak, offered to isolate 
the water supply and correctly diagnosed that a new pressure release valve was required to 
fix the issue. Pressure release valves were only covered by the policy when the leak couldnt 
be stopped in another way. In this instance, it could be stopped without replacing the valve.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 May 2023. 
Aviva said it agreed with my decision and confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Mrs S didnt agree with my decision. In summary, she said:
I had relied on the evidence of an engineer who she strongly believed to be 
discriminatory. Aviva had failed to provide any supporting evidence to verify their claims.I hadnt fully considered the timing of Avivas visit and that of her own engineer, which 
would confirm, on the balance of probabilities, that Avivas engineer had left without 
adequately dealing with the water leak.
Even if she accepted the engineers alleged remedy, the presence of water on the cables 
indicated it had failed.
Having to immediately call a third-party plumber highlighted the severity and urgency of 
the matter.
She was present during Avivas visit. As were three other people, including the tenant. 
The phone call I referred to took place in the house and continued in the engineers van. 
If he had made the comments I had referred to, Mrs S would have immediately disputed 
them.
Avivas refusal to honour the claim was a breach of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Aviva also made false statements regarding the scope of the policy under the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. Its refusal to honour the claim was also a breach of 
contract. She also referred to the Law Reform (Frustrated Contracts) Act 1943 and the 
County Courts Act 1984.
She outlined what she intended to do in terms of further action about her claim and 
requested that I issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I have considered all of the points raised by Mrs S. This included a letter that Mrs S 
appeared to send after I had issued my provisional decision but before she had received it.
When I made my decision, I carefully considered all of the evidence that had been provided 
to this service. This included evidence from both parties. I was aware that some of the 
conversation between the engineer and Aviva took place in the property and some of it in his 
van. I was also aware that Mrs S arranged for her own plumber to visit shortly after Avivas 
engineer left the property. Im grateful to Mrs S for confirming who was at the property.
Having thought about the evidence again, along with Mrs Ss further comments, in my view, 
the evidence indicates that the engineer dealt with the immediate leak, offered to isolate the 
water supply and correctly diagnosed that a new pressure release valve was required to fix 
the issue. I also still havent seen evidence that persuades me that water was dripping onto 
the electrics when the engineer was there, even if Mrs Ss plumber found this to be the case 
shortly after. I also remain of the view that it was reasonable for Aviva to decline to replace 
the valve under the terms of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman