DRN-3039040
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B has complained that Society of Lloyd's unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim.
Mr P, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriters.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. It claimed on its policy after 
being impacted by the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Lloyds said Bs claim wasnt covered by the policy. They said that the extension for disease 
didnt provide cover because Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases listed in the policy; the 
extension for act of a competent authority didnt provide cover because B hadnt closed due 
to a danger in the vicinity of its premises; and the extension for denial of access didnt 
provide cover either, as Covid-19 hadnt damaged property. 
B complained to Lloyds. It accepted there wasnt cover under the extension for disease but 
thought the others should provide cover. In particular, B said the schedule set out that B was 
covered for loss of attraction but that wasnt mentioned in the policy. Lloyds said loss of 
attraction was included within the extension for denial of access. B remained unhappy with 
the response from Lloyds and complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. He found that loss of 
attraction was included within the extension for denial of access, and as Covid-19 hadnt 
damaged property, that extension didnt provide cover. 
B didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Bs business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Bs claim. I dont intend to comment of why the extension for disease 
doesnt provide cover as that doesnt appear to be in dispute. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by Bs policy says:
We will cover You in respect of any interruption or interference with The 
Business as a result of Damage occurring during the Period of insurance at 
The Premises.
The policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to the Property Insured.
I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption or interference to Bs business was 
as a result of accidental loss of, destruction of or damage to property. Therefore, this doesnt 
provide cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
Act of a competent authority
The cover provided by the policy is extended by various extensions. This extension says:
We will cover You in respect of loss resulting from interruption or interference 
with The Business as a result of prevention of access to The Premises by the 
Police Authority due to a danger or disturbance in the vicinity of The Premises.
When reaching a decision, Im required to take account of relevant law. I think the High 
Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case is relevant to Bs 
complaint as the test case considered a similar extension to that in Bs policy and that 
part of the judgment wasnt appealed. 
Paragraphs 436 and 437 say:
the government action in imposing the Regulations in response to the national
pandemic cannot be said to be following a danger in the vicinity, in the sense of 
in the neighbourhood, of the insured premises.
Even if there were a total closure of insured premises pursuant to the 
Regulations, there could only be cover if the insured could demonstrate that it 
was the risk of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the neighbourhood, of 
the insured premises, as opposed to in the country as a whole, which led to the 
action of the government in imposing the Regulations. It is highly unlikely that that 
could be demonstrated in any particular case...
I see no reason to depart from the judgment. I think this extension was intended to 
provide cover in the event of a danger in Bs local area. I dont think the Governments 
response to the national pandemic was due to a danger in Bs vicinity as opposed to 
the country as a whole, so this extension doesnt provide cover either. 
Denial of access
This extension says:
We will cover You in respect of loss resulting from interruption or interference 
with The Business as a result of damage to property in the vicinity of The 
Premises which:
1. hinders or prevents the use of The Premises or access to them;2. causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of The 
Premises; whether The Premises used by You for the purpose of The 
Business is damaged or not.
This extension would require the interruption or interference with Bs business to be as a 
result of damage to property in the vicinity which hindered or prevented access to Bs 
premises or caused a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity. As I havent 
seen anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to property in the vicinity of Bs premises 
which hindered or prevented access to Bs premises or caused a fall in the number of 
customers attracted to the vicinity, I dont think this provides cover for Bs claim. 
I understand that the schedule sets out loss of attraction separately to denial of access. 
However, the wording at point 2 of this extension is in line with the wording Ive seen for loss 
of attraction in a number of other policies and Im satisfied that the loss of attraction wording 
in the schedule applies to this extension within the policy. 
I appreciate that as loss of attraction isnt included in the heading of the extension, B thought 
this meant that it would be covered if there was any loss of attraction. However, I dont think I 
can reasonably conclude that loss of attraction relates to anything else. The wording within 
this extension is the only part of the business interruption cover that refers to a fall in 
customers attracted to the vicinity and I dont think it would make commercial sense for the 
policy to provide cover for all loss of attraction, irrespective of the cause. So unfortunately, 
this extension doesnt provide cover for Bs claim either.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome B was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Bs claim.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman