DRN-3440026
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained they were mis-sold various package bank accounts by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) between 2000 and 2012.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E held a free account with Lloyds for some time before upgrading their account 
initially in February 2000. Mr and Mrs Es account was upgraded and downgraded several 
times over the years as outlined below:
February 2000 from an account with no fee to a Gold account
November 2002 from a Gold account to a Platinum account
July 2008 from a Platinum account to a Premier account 
January 2011 from a Premier account to a Gold account
July 2012 from a Gold account to a Platinum account
Prior to this complaint coming to our service Lloyds accepted that the upgrade from a 
Platinum to the Premium account in 2008 was not appropriate for Mr and Mrs Es 
requirements and this was upheld. So, I wont be considering the sale that took place in 
2008.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Es complaint about the sale of their 
package bank accounts but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs E disagreed this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think that Mr and Mrs E were mis-sold the package bank accounts I 
have looked at. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
It has been agreed that Lloyds recommended each of the package bank accounts that were 
sold to Mr and Mrs E. This means it had to ensure that the accounts were fit for their 
circumstances at the time.
I have looked at each of the sales in turn.
Gold account sale February 2000
As well as benefits such as travel, gadget insurance and vehicle breakdown cover, package 
bank accounts often offered additional benefits such as free or reduced fee overdrafts and 
beneficial rates of interest on loans and mortgages. From my experience, the Gold account 
that was sold to Mr and Mrs E would have provided beneficial rates when taking out a loan. 
The sale of the Gold account took place in February 2000 and theres limited information 
available from the time. But this isnt surprising considering the time thats passed and that 
businesses arent required to keep this kind of information indefinitely.
I can see that Mr and Mrs E took out a Gold service loan in February 2000. This type of loan 
would only have been available for Lloyds customers that held a Gold account. So, I think 
its likely Mr and Mrs E took the Gold account primarily to benefit from the preferential 
interest rates it offered at the time. 
In addition to the beneficial interest rates Mr and Mrs E would also have been able to take 
advantage of the other benefits offed under the Gold account.
As its clear that Mr and Mrs E were able to take advantage of at least some of the benefits 
offered by the Gold account i.e. the preferential loan interest rates. I think that upgrading the 
account was a reasonable recommendation based on Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the 
time.
Platinum account sale November 2002
As explained above, package bank accounts came with a variety of benefits. The level of 
benefits tended to increase depending on the level of account that was taken.
As with the sale of the Gold account in 2000 there is unsurprisingly little evidence available 
from the actual time of the sale. But the evidence shows Mr and Mrs E took out a Platinum 
service loan around the time they took the account. So, I think, as with the Gold account, 
they likely upgraded their account, primarily to benefit from the preferential loan interest 
rates it offered.
Its clear Mr and Mrs E were able to take advantage of at least some of the benefits offered 
by the Platinum account i.e. the preferential loan interest rates. I think that upgrading the 
account was a reasonable recommendation based on Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the 
time.
Gold account sale January 2011
At the time of this sale Mr and Mrs E were downgrading from their existing Premier account. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of its system notes where records of contact between its account 
holders and Lloyds were recorded. As these notes were made at the time the account was 
sold to Mr and Mrs E I find the evidence persuasive.
At the time Mr and Mrs E took the Gold account a note was recorded on the Lloyds system. 
It stated:
downgrade joint premiere account to Gold, Mr E still requires worldwide travel insurance 
but needs to save money
I think the note made at the time of the sale shows that worldwide travel insurance was 
discussed, and on balance I think it was a benefit of the account that Mr and Mrs E wanted to retain. Lloyds has also explained that worldwide travel insurance was not available on any 
of the lower level package bank accounts it offered.
In addition to the worldwide travel insurance offered by the Gold account Mr and Mrs E 
would also have had access to the other benefits the account offered while still reducing the 
fee that applied to the Premier account.
Overall, I think the recommendation Lloyds made to Mr and Mrs E to downgrade their 
account was reasonable considering their circumstances at the time.
Platinum account sale July 2012
The upgrade from a Gold to Platinum account in July 2012 came with additional benefits. 
One of the benefits was that the worldwide travel insurance also provided family cover.
Lloyds has again provided a copy of its system notes from the time the Platinum account 
was sold. A note recorded at the time of the sale states:
acct upgraded from Gold to Platinum for family travel cover
I think the note made at the time of the sale shows that family travel insurance was 
discussed, and on balance I think it was a benefit of the account that Mr and Mrs E wanted 
to take advantage of. Lloyds has also explained that family travel insurance was not 
available on any of the lower level package bank accounts it offered.
As with the other accounts I have considered, its clear Mr and Mrs E were able to take 
advantage of at least some of the benefits offered by the Platinum account i.e. the family 
travel cover. I think that upgrading the account was a reasonable recommendation based on 
Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs E have told us that when they were sold their package bank accounts, they were 
not given all the information that they should have been, and the fees were not explained.
Its not possible to know exactly what was said at each of the account sales, but as Ive 
explained above it appears that each sale corresponded with an event that holding the 
accounts would have benefited Mr and Mrs E - whether it be lower interest rates on loans, or 
the travel insurance. 
I think the benefits of holding the accounts would have been discussed in some detail 
alongside Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at each event and it appears they benefitted from 
holding each account. Its clear that they could have used at least some of the key benefits 
of each account, as they registered mobile handsets, clearly used a car, and travelled 
abroad. In addition to this, the notes added to Lloyds system when Mr and Mrs E 
downgraded their account in 2011 show that at least part of the reason they were 
downgrading was to save money. So, I think they would have known that a fee was applied 
to their account and that they were able to reduce the fee by downgrading. 
Mr and Mrs E have also said they were not made aware of an account Lloyds were able to 
offer them that didnt come with a monthly fee. I have thought about what Mr and Mrs E have 
said, but they held a fee free account with Lloyds before they opened their first fee paying 
account, so I think they would have been aware of this option at each sale discussed above.
On balance, as Ive explained above, I think the recommendations Lloyds made at the sale 
of each of the accounts was reasonable and I dont think Mr and Mrs E were mis-sold any of 
the package bank accounts I have considered.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman