DRN-2209986
The complaint
Mr P has complained about UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance. He 
isnt happy with the value it has placed on his wifes jewellery in respect of a claim under his 
home insurance policy following a burglary.
What happened
Mr Ps buildings and contents policy with Churchill was renewed in November 2019. In 
February 2020 Mr P registered a claim for valuables following a burglary at his home.
Churchill dealt with the claim and offered Mr P approximately £3,900 for the stolen jewellery. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this amount. He said although he didnt have proof of purchase of 
the items, he knew what hed paid for each piece and it came to around £5,700.
So, he complained to Churchill and then to this service. Our investigator looked into things 
for him but didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Churchills offer was fair, because it had 
done its best to value the jewellery based on the limited information provided by Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. He felt that hed been accurate with his valuation and he thought the 
jewellery expert should be asked to justify the value attributed to each item.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Although I understand Mr Ps disappointment, I dont think Churchill has acted unreasonably 
in its valuation of the jewellery.
Mr P has said that some of the jewellery was purchased around 30 years ago. He hasnt 
retained receipts, or any other proof of purchase, and he wasnt able to find exact 
replacements for sale now. So, hes done his best to try and remember what he paid for 
each item, and hes provided Churchill with a description of the jewellery.
I can see that Churchill accepted Mr Ps claim at face value and agreed to pay out under the 
policy. Based on Mr Ps description of each item, Churchill instructed a jewellery expert to 
complete a valuation report, which it used as the basis for its offer to Mr P.
I think Churchill acted reasonably in how it valued the jewellery. Ive looked at the description 
of each item as provided by Mr P but its very limited and doesnt include details of the size 
or type of diamond, or the carats of gold. These are factors which directly affect the value of 
an item of jewellery. Although I can see that Mr P has provided an estimated value for each 
item, this isnt supported with any receipts, photos of the items or other information which 
might help to check that the value is accurate.
Im not saying that Mr P has deliberately over-valued the items. I appreciate that hes 
provided his best estimate of the cost of items which were purchased many years ago. But 
Ive no reason to think that the jewellery expert hand found similar items (based on the 
description provided by Mr P) for less than Mr P thinks he paid. 
On balance and based on the limited information which Mr P was able to provide about each 
item, I think Churchill has valued the jewellery in a fair and reasonable way.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman