DRN-3948025
The complaint
Miss G has complained that she was consistently overdrawn for the past 14 years and that 
TSB Bank plc (TSB) acted unfairly by applying overdraft charges when she was in financial 
difficulty. 
What happened
Miss G had a bank account with an overdraft limit of £2,000. Miss G complained to TSB that 
by allowing her to increase her overdraft limit she was trapped into a spiral of debt. 
TSB said Miss G passed all its affordability checks and it was Miss Gs choice to apply for 
and use the overdraft facility and that it wouldnt expect her to spend money which she 
couldnt afford to repay. It says that it has no record Miss G had made it aware of any 
financial difficulty prior to April 2019 where it agreed a temporary increase in Miss Gs 
overdraft limit and following this referred her to a debt charity and waived charges. It 
acknowledged that her statements show gambling transactions and referred her to 
organisations that could help her with this. 
Despite TSB saying no error had been made it refunded £90.09 of charges and waived 
charges that were due to debit her account on 2 May 2022. Miss G was dissatisfied with this 
and she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Gs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They explained that they 
could only look at what happened on Miss Gs overdraft in the six years before she brought 
her complaint which she accepted. Initially they thought that TSB ought to have realised that 
Miss G was experiencing financial difficulty by December 2017 and then after further review 
and comments from TSB July 2018 and February 2021.
Though TSB didnt agree with our adjudicators view as Miss Gs bank statements show that 
she was able to pay off her overdraft on a number of occasions in November 2018 by 
refinancing, receiving money from family in September and October 2019 and finally from a 
gambling win in April 2020. TSBs view is Miss G chose to spend again on her overdraft 
rather than clear the debt. But as gesture of goodwill and to settle the complaint it agreed to 
refund the charges incurred from February 2021 amounting to £549.29 and confirmed that 
an interest waiver had been in place on the account since February 2022.
Miss G didnt wish to accept this offer and so the case was passed to an ombudsman.  
I issued my provisional decision on 13 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I was proposing to uphold Miss Gs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision. Miss G has accepted the findings in 
my provisional decision and TSB have responded but havent provided any new evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Im intending to find that TSB acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and 
associated fees from April 2018, as it ought to have been clear that Miss G was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, TSB ought to have realised that Miss Gs use of her overdraft was 
unsustainable. Miss Gs statements show significant gambling and that from January 2017 to 
April 2018 her overdraft balance hadnt reduced at all and that she hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance since July 2017. In these circumstances, TSB ought to have 
realised that Miss G was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what she already 
owed. So TSB should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated 
Miss G with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the 
overdraft.
I accept that Miss G was able to get a loan for £8,000 to refinance her debt in November 
2018 which was just enough to pay off her credit cards and overdraft. But Miss G was in 
financial trouble before this and I think TSB shouldve stepped in and not allowed Miss G to 
continue to borrow and spend in a way that wasnt sustainable. So this doesnt make a 
difference to my thoughts on Miss Gs complaint. 
Miss G ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that TSB 
didnt treat Miss G fairly and she lost out because of what TSB did wrong. And this means 
that it should put things right.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Gs complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Gs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from April 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Miss G to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss G is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with TSB to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Gs credit file, TSB should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in April 2018. TSB 
can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Miss G over their limit.
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss G along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I uphold Miss Gs complaint against TSB Bank plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman