DRN-3516751
The complaint
 Mr As complaint concerns advice given by Money Wise in 2009 about Mr As pension.
Fidelius Ltd is now responsible for the advice Money Wise gave.
What happened
Ive considered Mr As complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2022. Ive 
set out again the background and my provisional findings upholding the complaint in part. In 
my provisional decision I also referred to the jurisdiction decisions Id earlier issued. 
Money Wise advised Mr A in 2009 to switch from his existing SIPP (self invested personal
pension) to a new SIPP with a different provider and invest his pension fund via a
discretionary portfolio managed by Money Wise, using an investment platform with
Ascentric. One of the investments was the Quadris Fund, a South American forestry fund.
Mr A complained to Fidelius in March 2020. Fidelius issued its final response letter on 23
April 2020. It set out Mr As complaint as being that, on advice from Money Wise, hed
invested part of his pension fund into a forestry fund which had since become illiquid. Now,
as he approached retirement, hed found he couldnt move his pension to another
arrangement because of the illiquid fund.
Fidelius went on to explain why it wasnt upholding the complaint. In summary it said the
advice given in 2009 had been suitable, bearing in mind that the Quadris Fund represented
about 6% of the overall SIPP portfolio, which was made up of a wide range of funds and
matched Mr As balanced attitude to investment risk. In September 2010 Mr A had removed
Money Wise as his advisers as he followed the adviser to his new firm. The Quadris Fund
became illiquid in March 2011, after Money Wise had ceased to manage Mr As SIPP.
Fidelius gave referral rights to this service. But it said that time limits applied and its view
was that Mr A had complained outside those time scales and so this service wouldnt be able
to consider the complaint unless exceptional circumstances applied. In particular Fidelius
said the investment had been made more than six years ago and it had become illiquid more
than three years earlier. Changes to Mr As portfolio had been made in 2011. It shouldve
been clear more than three years ago that the Quadris Funds illiquidity was causing
problems.
Mr A referred his complaint to us. On his complaint form he said he was advised to transfer
his pension to a new arrangement with the investments held on a platform in a new portfolio.
He hadnt wanted to take excessive risks and hed been identified as a balanced investor.
Hed subsequently found out that part of his pension fund was invested in an unregulated
investment which had been suspended and was likely to produce a nil return. Hed
effectively lost all his money on that particular investment that hed been advised to invest in.
And hed been unable to transfer his pension to a more suitable product as he was unable to
sell the assets in the suspended fund. That meant hed been paying annual SIPP fees for a
product hed since been informed he didnt need and he couldve invested in a different
product without those annual fees. He said he didnt need a SIPP and a normal pension
arrangement wouldve been suitable. He wanted compensation for the loss of the value of
the unregulated investment and a refund of his SIPP fees from inception.
I issued a provisional jurisdiction decision on 9 August 2021 and a jurisdiction decision on 10
August 2021. I said, for the reasons I set out, that we could investigate a complaint about the
advice given in 2009 to invest part of Mr As SIPP in the Quadris Fund. But Id overlooked
what Mr A had said on his complaint form about not needing a SIPP. The investigator went
on to consider that wider complaint.
Fidelius didnt agree that we could investigate a complaint about the suitability of the SIPP
itself. Again it said the complaint had been made too late.
I issued a further provisional jurisdiction decision on 9 February 2022 dealing with whether
we could investigate that wider complaint. Again I thought we could. I maintained that view in
the jurisdiction decision I issued on 2 March 2022.
The investigator had issued his view on the merits of the complaint on 21 September 2021.
The investigator had upheld the complaint. In summary hed said:
The issue to determine was whether the advice Mr A received in 2009 to switch
SIPPs and invest in the Money Wise Balanced Income & Growth Portfolio which
included the Quadris Fund was suitable. The investigator didnt think it was.
Mr As holding in the Quadris Fund equated to around 7% of his pension fund. That
was more than the investigator expected to see for that type of investment  it was
unregulated and usually only suitable for certain investors  such as high net worth or
sophisticated investors.
Unregulated investments have multiple significant risks and shouldnt be promoted to
the general public.
The suitability report recorded that Mr A was a balanced investor. Hed said he
wanted a low return for a small risk. It seemed he didnt want to take excessive risks.
Although he already had a SIPP he wasnt an experienced investor.
The Quadris Fund wasnt the only concern. A lot of the funds had a short history or
were within a small sector. The asset allocation didnt match a balanced or medium
risk investor. Only 26% of the portfolio was made up of fixed interest investments
which was lower than the investigator expected, especially taking into account the
value of Mr As pension fund. The investigator didnt think Mr A could afford to take
the risks associated with the Quadris Fund or the Money Wise Balanced Income &
Growth Portfolio generally. And he didnt need a discretionary fund manager and the
added costs of that.
Stakeholder and personal pensions were listed and disregarded. But it wasnt clear
that the adviser had considered other options available within Mr As existing SIPP. It
seems the switch to the new SIPP was recommended to facilitate the investment in
the recommended portfolio.
Mr A had only been a Money Wise client until around 2010. But that didnt change
the fact that Money Wise was responsible for the advice to switch SIPPs and invest
in the Balanced Income & Growth Portfolio which included the Quadris Fund. The
switch wasnt necessary or suitable.
The investigator set out how Fidelius should compensate Mr A. Essentially he said Fidelius
should compare the current value of Mr As pension fund with what it would be worth
compared to the benchmark set out  50/50 Bank of England average return from fixed rate
bonds and the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.Fidelius said it didnt accept liability for investment performance from 2010  when Mr A left
Money Wise  up to 2021. It referred to an ombudsmans decision in 2016.
Mr A had ended his relationship with Money Wise shortly after his adviser had left Money
Wise in April 2010. His pension wasnt reviewed until November 2011, by which time the
Quadris Fund had been suspended. If Mr A had remained with Money Wise, hed have sold
the Quadris Fund (and other funds) in accordance with Money Wises ongoing reviews.
Holding such funds was a temporary measure after the credit crunch. Fidelius was liable for
Mr As fund only until about May 2010. Fidelius said there were also practical problems in
calculating redress on the basis the investigator had proposed.
The investigator considered what Fidelius had said. But he wasnt persuaded to change his
view. He said thered been no need for Mr A to switch SIPPs and the investments
recommended had been too high risk given his circumstances, the level of risk he was
prepared to take and the size of his pension fund. The redress suggested would put Mr A
back in the position hed have been in, had the advice not taken place.
Fidelius position is that the advice to enter into the new SIPP was suitable. In summary
Fidelius said:
It had provided Mr A with a detailed suitability report. It included the benefits of the
new arrangement, including the model portfolio recommended.
Other options were considered but discounted as they werent as flexible as the SIPP
in terms of investment choices and options available at retirement.
All the charges associated with the advice were fully disclosed. The new SIPP had
lower ongoing charges than Mr As existing SIPP.
When Mr A had approached Money Wise his existing SIPP had lost 14% of its value
as it hadnt been actively managed and Mr A was unhappy about that.
Although the investigator had questioned the makeup of the portfolio, the fund
selection at the time was heavily influenced by the global financial crisis. The
inclusion of funds such as the Quadris Fund was intended to provide balance and
diversification.
Although actively managing the existing SIPP wouldve been possible, that would still
have required establishing a wrap account and so wouldnt have resulted in any
saving. Money Wise would still have charged for its investment advice and as it
wouldve been less familiar with the product, the charges may have been slightly
higher. And the existing SIPP had higher charges than the new SIPP which allowed a
wider range of fund choices.
And, about the Quadris Fund, Fidelius said:
The Quadris Fund made up a little over 6% of Mr As pension fund at the time. Hed
agreed he wanted to take a balanced or medium risk approach to investing his
pension. Viewed in context, the advice in 2009 to invest a small part of his pension in
the Quadris Fund was suitable. It was a small percentage of an overall portfolio of
assets which included investments with a variety of risk profiles, designed to provide
diversity and stability, and which, taken as a whole, was balanced and therefore in
line with Mr As assessed attitude to risk. It was important to remember the context of
the global financial circumstances at the time. The banking crisis had caused
significant volatility in the stock markets, interest rates had fallen to record lows and
bonds and equities had become closely correlated and so could not be used to offset
each other's risk. In these circumstances, it was even more justifiable to invest a
small part of Mr As overall portfolio in non-standard assets in 2009, so as to providediversification and the possibility of returns uncorrelated with the stock market.
The portfolio as a whole was suitable or successful and growing in value. The poor
performance of one fund isnt evidence of inherent unsuitability.
It wasnt fair or reasonable to hold Fidelius responsible for the subsequent illiquidity
of the Quadris Fund. When Mr A left Money Wise in 2010, there were no indications
of any problems. Part of Money Wise's offering was continually to monitor
investments and recommend switches where available. Had Mr A remained a client,
hed have been advised to disinvest in 2010, as other clients of Money Wise were,
and so the subsequent problems with the Quadris Fund wouldve been avoided. It
was removed from the model portfolio at that time. It appears that Mr As new
advisers failed actively to monitor the portfolio, resulting in Mr A remaining invested.
It was that failure, not any inherent unsuitability of the original recommendation, thats
caused Mr As losses in respect of the Quadris Fund.
Without prejudice to Fidelius arguments that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, the
redress shouldnt be the same as suggested by the investigator and which Fidelius
said was unworkable. And the end date for the calculation should be the date on
which Mr A left Money Wise as a client. From then onwards it was unable to advise
him. What had been suggested was unfair and unreasonable and inconsistent with
the previous ombudsmans decision.
Fidelius has set out the charges for the existing and new SIPPs. The existing SIPP
cost about 2.01% pa and the new SIPP about 1.46% pa. That was broadly
comparable with a stakeholder pension. The charges were set out in the suitability
letter and which said that the new SIPP was competitively priced.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered jurisdiction again. Were required to keep jurisdiction under review
throughout our consideration of a complaint. Ive done that and I maintain, for the reasons
Ive indicated previously, that we can consider Mr As complaint about the Quadris Fund and
also about the suitability of the SIPP itself.
Im issuing this provisional decision as my views about the merits of the complaint arent the
same as the investigators.
While Mr As concerns initially centred on the Quadris Fund, hes been told he didnt need a
SIPP and he now feels hes been paying fees for a product he didnt need. Hes seeking
compensation for the loss of the Quadris Fund and a refund of his SIPP fees from inception.
Ive considered the suitability of the SIPP first. Ive then gone on to consider the portfolio of
investments that Money Wise recommended and which included the Quadris Fund.
At the time of the advice in 2009, Mr As pension fund was relatively modest  about
£84,000. That might call into question the suitability of a SIPP which can be a higher
charging type of pension vehicle. Indeed Mr As concerns about the SIPP centre on the
charges.
But I note that Mr A had an existing SIPP. So it seems hed decided at some point,
presumably on another firms advice, that he wanted a SIPP and he liked or needed the
flexibility that sort of pension arrangement could provide.
Whatever product was chosen, charges wouldve been incurred. I think the charges for theSIPP Fidelius recommended, and which were set out in the suitability letter, werent
unreasonable.
Fidelius has pointed out that the charges were less than those for Mr As existing SIPP. And,
if the total costs were about 1.46% pa, that doesnt compare unfavourably with the costs of a
stakeholder pension. Thats usually regarded as a basic type of pension arrangement with
limited fund choice and charges that have to be kept low  1% pa when stakeholder
pensions were first introduced in 2001 and then increased in 2005 to 1.5% pa for the first ten
years and 1% pa thereafter. I dont think the SIPP was unsuitable from a charges
perspective.
The investigator thought that the new SIPP was recommended to facilitate investment in the
Money Wise Balanced Income & Growth Portfolio. If the recommended investments are
unsuitable then that may make the product unsuitable too. But here I dont think the SIPP
was inherently unsuitable for Mr A. It doesnt necessarily follow, even if the investments were
unsuitable, that would mean the SIPP was too. So Ive just considered the portfolio from an
investment suitability perspective.
Mr A had been identified as a balanced risk investor. I dont see any real reason to say that
wasnt a credible assessment of his attitude to risk at the time and even if hes subsequently
indicated that his attitude to risk was lower. He was 48 at the time and as his retirement was
some time away I think he could afford to take some risk with his pension fund, albeit that it
was modest and, as far as Im aware, he didnt have other pension provision at the time.
Hes said he didnt want to take excessive risks but I think he was prepared to take a degree
of risk in the hope that hed get a reasonable return over the period to his intended
retirement. Looking at his circumstances generally I dont think he shouldve been advised
that he should adopt a lower than medium attitude to risk.
But I dont think the portfolio that Money Wise recommended matched Mr As balanced
attitude to risk or was suitable for a medium risk investor. I agree with what the investigator
said about the makeup of the portfolio. I think it represented a higher degree of risk than was
suitable for a medium or balanced risk investor.
Fidelius has pointed out that the Quadris Fund represented a relatively small proportion of
the portfolio. But it was over 6% which I think was on the higher side. But, in any event, it
wasnt the only unregulated investment. The portfolio composition in 2009 included other
unregulated collective investment schemes  for example, EEA Life Settlements, Matrix
Ascension, New Earth Solutions Recyling Facilities and the Connaught Guaranteed Low
Risk Income.
I note whats been said about the makeup of the portfolio having been driven by the financial
crisis and an attempt to find assets whose performance was uncorrelated with the stock
market. But unregulated investments typically have multiple risk factors and are generally
regarded as suitable (both at the time and now) only for certain clients  typically high net
worth and/or sophisticated investors  and then usually only for a small proportion of the
portfolio. Before promoting an unregulated investment a firm should be sure that the client is
one to whom such a promotion can lawfully be made. Ive not seen any evidence that Money
Wise took the necessary steps to ensure that unregulated investments could be promoted to
Mr A.
Even if it was intended to hold certain assets for a relatively short period the portfolio wasnt
suitable for a medium risk investor such as Mr A. I also tend to agree with the investigator
that, given the value of Mr As pension fund, it would be difficult to justify the increased costs
of actively managing it.The upshot is that Money Wises advice that Mr A invest his SIPP fund in Money Wises
Balanced Income & Growth Portfolio was unsuitable for Mr A.
But that was in 2009. I need to consider whats happened since then. And, in particular, that
Mr A was only Money Wises client for a very limited period. In September 2010 he told
Money Wise that he was following the adviser to his new firm. Fidelius says that Mr As
portfolio wasnt reviewed until November 2011, by which time the Quadris Fund had been
suspended. And, if Mr A had remained with Money Wise, hed have sold the Quadris Fund
(and other funds) in accordance with Money Wises ongoing reviews.
To deal with the last point first, I dont think what wouldve happened if Mr A had stayed with
Money Wise is directly relevant, given that Mr A moved on. Instead Ive looked at what
actually happened and how it came about that Mr A retained the Quadris Fund until after
March 2011 when it became illiquid and Mr A couldnt then, or since, sell his holding.
I dont think its the case that Mr As portfolio wasnt reviewed for some eighteen months. I
think Fidelius is taking the start date of that period as when the adviser left Money Wise
which I think was in April 2010. But Mr A remained a client of Money Wise for longer than
that. And in any event I think some changes to Mr As portfolio were made before November
2011. It seems that before then, by May 2011, with the exception of the Quadris Fund, the
unregulated investments had been sold  the last being the New Earth Fund which was sold
in May 2011.
Fidelius has pointed to a decision by another ombudsman which suggests that, where a
client moves to another advisory firm (albeit with the same adviser) theres a very short
window in which wed expect the new adviser to review the clients holdings and suggest and
implement changes if necessary. But, although we aim for consistency, Im not bound by
previous decisions. I have to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the particular case Im deciding.
Mr A left Money Wise in September 2010. It was only about six months later that the Quadris
Fund became illiquid. As Ive said, it seems that, in the interim, changes were being made to
Mr As portfolio and by May 2011 the unregulated investments had been sold, aside from the
Quadris Fund which had become illiquid in March 2011.
In some cases, where a new adviser is appointed, there might be a need to review the
investments urgently. For example, if the investments have been in place for some time and
those and the clients circumstances havent been recently reviewed. But here I dont think
thered have been any perceived urgency to review the portfolio and sell off funds which had
only a year or so earlier been deemed suitable by Money Wise. And there was no indication
that the Quadris Fund was in (or would soon face) difficulties. The problems with the Quadris
Fund didnt emerge until March 2011 when the Fund was temporarily suspended (and which
suspension has remained in place ever since).
Although it looks like some adjustments to Mr As portfolio were being made, unfortunately,
the Quadris Fund hadnt been sold before it became illiquid. In the circumstances of this
particular case I dont think it would be fair to say that Money Wise had no responsibility for
the fact that Mr A had invested in the Quadris Fund and that he wasnt later able to sell his
holding. His investment in the Quadris Fund was made on Money Wises advice. I think the
investment was inherently unsuitable for Mr A. I think that  rather than any failure by Mr As
new advisers to monitor his portfolio  was the root cause of his losses.
Fidelius argument  that losses couldve been avoided if Mr As new advisers had monitored
the portfolio  is a mitigation issue. But, notwithstanding that there was, after Mr A left Money
Wise, a window in which to sell his holding, I dont think that means that Money Wise isntresponsible for any losses because Mr As holding wasnt sold before March 2011. As Ive
said the root cause of his losses is Money Wises unsuitable advice. And, since then, hes
been unable to sell or redeem it. Mr A has the Quadris Fund because Money Wise
recommended it. It was unsuitable and Im not persuaded that Money Wise (now Fidelius)
shouldnt be held responsible for Mr As losses in connection with that investment.
But I think the Quadris Fund is something of an exception because of Mr As inability to do
anything with it. I dont see, given that Mr A has had a new adviser in place since about
September 2010, that Fidelius can be responsible for the performance of Mr As portfolio
from 2009 up to date.
I think at most (and leaving aside the Quadris Fund which and as Ive said because of its
illiquidity I regard as an exception) Fidelius would be responsible for any losses Mr A
suffered from when he switched SIPPs in 2009 and into an unsuitable portfolio until when
the adviser shouldve reviewed his portfolio. As Ive said I dont think there was any real
urgency and so any review may not have happened until sometime in 2011.
Ive looked at Mr As fund values from November 2009 until September 2011. Up until 31
March 2011 the overall fund value steadily increased. As at 9 November 2009 the fund value
was £84,195.72. By 31 March 2010 it had increased to £89,396.75 and to £90,118.19 by
September 2010. Mr A left Money Wise the following month so during the time he was with
Money Wise his fund value had grown by almost £6,000 or just over 7%. The fund value
then fell to £89,278.24 as at 30 September 2011. But that still represented an overall gain.
And, by 31 March 2012, it had recovered to £95,502.10.
The upshot is that, notwithstanding that the portfolio that Money Wise recommended wasnt
suitable for Mr A, I dont think he suffered any financial loss during the period that Money
Wise was responsible for his investments and or shortly afterwards and before his
investments were reviewed by his adviser at his new firm. I dont think, from, say, 2011
onwards, that Money Wise can continue to be held responsible for how Mr As SIPP portfolio
has performed. Thats aside from the Quadris Fund which maintained for some time and on
paper a value more or less consistent with the amount invested which it now appears may in
fact have been lost.
In summary, I think Fidelius is responsible for the losses Mr A has sustained in connection
with the Quadris Fund. Ive set out below how Fidelius needs to calculate compensation for
that. Mr A has also said that because of the illiquid Quadris Fund hes unable to close his
SIPP and move his fund to an alternative pension arrangement. Ive set out what below what
should happen about that and in the event that Fidelius cant buy the Quadris Fund and the
SIPP is unable to be closed.
We havent received any comments from Mr A or Fidelius in response to my provisional 
decision about the merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered jurisdiction again. As Ive said, we have to keep jurisdiction under review
throughout our consideration of a complaint up and until we issue a final decision. Ive done 
that and I maintain, for the reasons Ive indicated previously, that we can consider Mr As 
complaint about the Quadris Fund and also about the suitability of the SIPP itself.Ive set out in full above the findings I reached in my provisional decision and these form part 
of this decision. In the absence of any comments, new arguments or evidence, my views 
havent changed. So Im upholding the complaint but only in part. 
Ive set out again what I said in my provisional decision about how Fidelius should redress 
Mr A. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr A as close as possible to
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think hed have
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what hed have done but Im satisfied
that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr As circumstances and objectives
when he invested.
What should Fidelius Ltd do?
To compensate Mr A fairly Fidelius Ltd should:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
Fidelius Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Fidelius Ltd should pay into Mr As pension plan, to increase its value by
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Fidelius Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr As pension plan, it should pay that
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be
calculated using Mr As actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement
age.
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he wouldve been able to
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Fidelius Ltd should pay Mr A £300 for the upset caused by the unsuitable
investment advice. Thats the same amount as the investigator suggested. Notwithstanding
the investigator thought the wider complaint about the SIPP itself should be upheld, whereas
my view is that its only any losses in respect of the Quadris Fund that Fidelius Ltd needs to
redress (plus any future SIPP fees as detailed below), I dont think £300 is unreasonable so
Ive awarded the same sum.
Fidelius Ltd should also provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Fidelius Ltd considers that its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how
much it has taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one,so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
FTSE UK
Quadris 
Fundsuspended Private 
Investors 
Incomedate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Total Return
Index
 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
Fidelius Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value
acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation
and the balance paid as above.
If Fidelius Ltd is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Fidelius Ltd may wish to require that Mr A provides an
undertaking to pay Fidelius Ltd any amount he may receive from the investment in the
future.
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the
receipt from the pension plan. Fidelius Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Fidelius Ltd can total all those payments and deduct that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indiceswith different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Mr A's circumstances and risk attitude.
Future SIPP fees
Mr A has said that he wants to close his SIPP and move his pension fund to another pension
arrangement.
I understand that the illiquid Quadris Fund is preventing the SIPP from being closed. If that is
the case and if Fidelius Ltd is unable to buy Mr As holding in the Quadris Fund and so
enable the SIPP to be closed, then Fidelius Ltd will also need to pay Mr A five years worth
of SIPP fees (using the current tariff). That should give a reasonable period for the
problems with the Quadris Fund to be resolved and the SIPP closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Fidelius Ltd must redress Mr A as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman