DRN-3339280
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
118 118 Money lent a loan to Mr B in April 2019. The loan was for £1,000 repayable in 12 
monthly instalments of £102.93, the total cost of the loan is £1,235.16. 118 118 Money has 
confirmed that the loan hasnt been fully repaid and has been sold to a third-party debt 
purchaser.
Mr B complained to 118 118 through a third-party representative but it didnt uphold his 
complaint and so he referred it to this service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator thought that there were concerns raised from 118 118 
Moneys search into Mr Bs credit file that should have concerned and so it was wrong to 
lend. 118 118 Money disagreed, it said the checks were proportionate and as there were no 
signs that Mr B would struggle to repay the loan, it made a fair lending decision.
Following the investigators view, we wrote to the third-party representative for Mr B in 
October 2021 asking for further information about his circumstances at the time of the loan, 
specifically his bank statements. This information wasnt provided. We requested the 
information again in February 2022, we explained that without this information, a decision 
would be reached based on the current information and the outcome of the complaint was 
likely to be that Mr Bs complaint wont be upheld.
The information hasnt been provided and deadline for providing the information has now 
passed. Im satisfied that Mr B has been given sufficient time to provide a response. I 
havent issued a provisional decision as Ive given an indication to Mr B through his 
representatives that I was inclined to reach different conclusions from the investigator. 
Mr Bs representative has been given the necessary time to provide further evidence and 
representation as it would have with a provisional decision but it hasnt provided this 
information, so I have made my final decision based on the available information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
118 118 Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.  
In the earlier stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be proportionate. 
When looking at the checks 118 118 Money carried out, Im mindful that this was Mr Bs first 
loan with it, it was for £1,000 over 12 months. The repayment amount also represented a 
small portion of Mr Bs declared income.
Mr B declared his income as £2,416 and his monthly living costs including credit 
commitments as £850. 118 118 Money has provided two reports showing it electronically 
verified Mr Bs income, on one report the income is shown as £2,416  which is the amount 
Mr B declared and on the other the income is shown as £1,932. So even if the lower income 
applied here, the monthly repayment was still a small portion of Mr Bs income. 
Ive also thought about what those checks showed. The results of the credit search showed 
that Mr B had one active default from 2017 which he was paying £40 towards monthly, he 
had a credit card with a small balance of £45 outstanding, and was repaying around £372 
towards other loans. Looking at Mr Bs income and expenses, it appeared that hed have 
had sufficient disposable income and bearing in mind he was single, I dont necessarily think 
repaying that portion of his income towards credit would necessarily have meant 118 118 
Money shouldnt have lent to him.
I think it would have been reasonable for 118 118 Money to have taken its checks further 
and verify his expenses at least. It is clear that the credit repayment Mr B declared is less 
than what was showing on his credit file and I think it would have been reasonable for 118 
118 Money to understand more about his circumstances before lending. I also note that Mr B 
has said he was borrowing the loan for debt consolidation but theres no evidence to show 
what debts he was consolidating and how this would have affected his finances. I dont think 
118 118 Money did enough before agreeing to lend here.
Usually, Id look to see what Mr Bs circumstances were at the time of the loan but this 
service has requested copies of Mr Bs bank statements, but he hasnt provided this. So, in 
the absence of this information, I dont know what 118 118 Money would have found had it 
taken its checks further and I cant say it was wrong the lend.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not to uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman