DRN-3224243
The complaint
Miss P complains that NewDay Ltd unfairly declined her claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2019 Miss P used her NewDay credit card to pay £1,000 towards dental treatment for her 
daughter, which cost a total of £2,000.
Miss P says that the treatment had started in February 2020, but the supplier of the 
treatment subsequently stopped trading, leaving her daughters treatment unfinished. Miss P 
subsequently raised a section 75 claim with NewDay to recover the sum shed paid.
NewDay declined the claim. It said that section 75 didnt apply because a specific 
relationship thats required between Miss P, NewDay and the dental practice didnt exist.
Our investigator agreed that section 75 didnt apply, so they concluded that NewDay had 
acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Miss P didnt agree, so her complaint was passed to me to make a decision on it. I issued a 
provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
However, for section 75 to apply, there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under
section 12(b) or (c) of the CCA.
Miss P is the debtor and NewDay is the creditor. However, it appears the dental practice, 
which is the supplier, entered into an agreement for treatment with Miss Ps daughter. 
I accept that Miss P has shown that she was required to sign a consent form for the 
treatment on behalf of her daughter, and Miss P says she was a minor at the time so she 
couldnt have entered into the agreement. However, as far as Im aware, Miss Ps daughter 
was 17 at the time of the agreement and Ive not been persuaded as to a reason why she 
wouldnt have been able to consent to the treatment, outside of what appears to be the 
suppliers request to have Miss P sign a consent document. Additionally, that document 
specifies that the parties to the agreement are the dental practice and the patient, Miss Ps 
daughter. 
As a result, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier relationship doesnt exist 
and NewDay therefore isnt responsible or legally answerable for the suppliers breach of 
contract. So, I dont think it was unfair for NewDay to decline Miss Ps section 75 claim. 
Ive also considered whether or not Miss Ps claim might have had a prospect of success if 
NewDay had attempted a chargeback. Attempting a chargeback isnt a right, like section 75, 
but Id have expected NewDay to attempt one if there had been a reasonable prospect of 
success. 
Chargeback rules set out that they are subject to specific time limits. Generally speaking, its 
necessary to raise a chargeback within 120 days of the date goods or services were 
expected to be performed, or from the date the consumer reasonably became aware they 
wouldnt be performed or received.
In this case, Miss P has told us that the dental practice had ceased trading in February 2020, 
and although Miss P was offered treatment with an alternative provider, she made enquiries 
and it was clear by June 2020 that no further treatment would be provided. As Miss Ps claim 
to NewDay was made in November 2020, Im satisfied that a chargeback would not have 
had a prospect of success.  
I understand Miss Ps frustration given the circumstances  she borrowed money to fund 
treatment for her daughter and doesnt seem to have received some or all of the treatment 
she paid for. However, my power is limited to determining whether or not NewDay reached a 
fair outcome on her claim, and for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied that it did.
Both parties responded to say that they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both Miss P and NewDay didnt have anything further to add to my provisional 
decision, I find no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. As a result, I now make 
those conclusions final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman