DRN-3656433
The complaint
In summary, Mr H has complained that Nottingham Building Society (NBS), trading as 
Beehive money; didnt make him aware of how long it would take for a bonus to be applied 
to his Lifetime ISA (LISA).
What happened
In 2021 Mr H set up a Lifetime ISA with NBS. In May 2022, Mr H phoned NBS about making 
a contribution into his LISA. After having the conversation with NBS, Mr H made a payment 
into his LISA that month. He was purchasing a house in June 2022 and was anticipating 
receiving the HMRC bonus before his house purchase completed. The bonus from HMRC 
wasnt credited to his account in time for his property purchase, so Mr H complained to NBS. 
In its response to Mr Hs complaint of 9 June 2022, NBS explained why it wasnt upholding 
his complaint. It said that in the phone call Mr H had with one of its representatives, he was 
told that the HMRC bonus was paid within 6-9 weeks from the time the deposit was made. 
Deposits he had made in April 2022 had received the HMRC bonus. But a deposit made on 
13 May 2022 hadnt. It went on to say that the nine-week cut off for the bonus to be paid was 
15 July 2022. It also said information had been provided to Mr H when he took out the 
account, that the bonus was paid directly by HMRC, not by NBS. 
Mr Hs concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained that they found 
Mr H had been provided with correct information when he called NBS in May 2022 to 
enquire about the bonus. They said Mr H was told the bonus could take up to nine weeks to 
appear in the account from when the deposit was made.  And they said Mr H was provided 
with information when he took out the LISA, that explained the HMRC bonus would be paid 
within four to nine weeks. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for the case to be reviewed. 
He said there was no mention of a nine week wait for bonuses to be paid, in information he 
received. He said that he had been financially impacted, as he hadnt been able to use the 
additional bonus he had been waiting for towards his house purchase. The case has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr H took out the LISA, NBS says he was provided with product information about the 
LISA. The LISA key product information that NBS says was applicable at the time Mr H took 
out the LISA, has a section about the government bonus. It says:
We will claim the Government Bonus from HMRC on your behalf. HMRC will calculate the 
Government Bonus based on the contributions you have made each month and pay each 
Government Bonus within 4-9 weeks. The Government Bonus is paid on all contributions 
you make before you reach the age of 50.
NBS has said it doesnt have contact records from the time Mr Hs LISA was set up as it was 
using a different system at that time. So, NBS hasnt been able to provide a record that 
shows the product information was sent to Mr H. And Mr H says he didnt receive information 
or paperwork that said bonuses took four to nine weeks to be paid. But Mr H hasnt said that 
he didnt receive any paperwork. And I think its more likely than not that the key product 
information which contained details of when the bonus was paid, was sent to Mr H with other 
information he received after he applied for the LISA online.
But even if I were to assume that Mr H didnt receive any documentation at the time he took 
out the LISA, I still think he was aware of the timescale for the bonus being applied by 
HMRC. I say this because having listened to the call he had with NBS in May 2022, I can 
hear that he was told the bonus would be applied by HMRC within four to nine weeks on 
several occasions during the call. And he was also told that a specific date couldnt be given 
as to when the HMRC bonus would be applied. He was told that only a time frame of four to 
nine weeks could be given. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr H would have been aware of how long it might take for the bonus 
made by HMRC to be applied, when he made the deposit into his LISA on 13 May 2022. 
And he should in my opinion have realised from the information he was given, that there was 
a risk his HMRC bonus wouldnt be paid by it and applied to his account, by the time he 
wanted to utilise the funds for his house deposit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above my decision is to not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman