DRN-4209546
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the standard of repairs carried out when he made a claim under 
his car insurance policy to Aviva Insurance Limited. Mr C has also complained about the 
service he has received and the depreciation of the car. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr C made a claim for damage to his car after a collision with another 
vehicle. 
Aviva arranged for the car to be repaired by an approved repairer (AR). Mr Cs car was 
returned to the AR four times and he remained unhappy with the repairs. 
Mr Cs car remained undriveable and during this time, had use of a replacement car through 
a car hire company arranged by Aviva. Aviva arranged for an independent inspection of the 
car and agreed rectification repairs. It agreed for Mr C to obtain an estimate for the 
rectification repairs. 
Aviva didnt agree that all of the estimate was reasonable and so it decided to settle the 
complaint by offering a cash in lieu (CIL) payment 
Mr C raised a series of complaints with Aviva. In summary he complained about the number 
of times his car had to be returned for repairs and remained in a worse position to the one 
before the incident. He said hed agreed a sale of the car before the incident and had lost 
£8,000 in depreciation due to the time taken to get the car repaired. Mr C said he and his 
family had experienced harassment from the car hire company and his wife had incurred 
loss of earnings for the days taken off work for assessments, collection and delivery 
including failed appointments, and days when they were not insured to drive the hire car. 
Mr C complained about the overall distress and inconvenience caused over a period of 11 
months trying to resolve the issue with repairs. 
In response, Aviva agreed that the car shouldnt be returned to the AR for further work and 
offered a total of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
As Mr C didnt agree the CIL offer was reasonable to get the car repaired, he wanted Aviva 
to arrange them with an alternative garage. To resolve the complaint, Aviva made 
arrangements for the rectification repairs to be done by an alternative garage. 
Mr C raised a new complaint about the most recent set of repairs. He said the alternative 
garage had caused new damage. Before the car had the most recent set of repairs carried 
out, it wasnt driveable. But although unhappy with these repairs, Mr Cs car was now 
driveable. 
Aviva said it would no longer agree to extend the car hire and said the claim for new damage 
was pre-existing damage. Our Investigator recommended Mr C take photos of the alleged 
new damage and collect his car as it was driveable. 
Our Investigator found the most recent estimate provided by Mr C to have rectification 
repairs carried out was extraordinary. She recommended Mr C selects an independent 
engineer for Aviva to appoint, at Avivas cost, in order that the independent engineer can 
assess the car and the most recent estimate to conclude a fair and reasonable repair cost 
and also to make a decision in respect of the trim paint which remains in dispute between 
Aviva and Mr C. The Investigator recommended Aviva then pay Mr C a CIL settlement as 
per the independent engineers recommendations. 
Having checked the motor trade guides for the time it has taken to carry out repairs, the 
Investigator found the depreciation was minor and that the evidence provided by Mr C didnt 
show he was going to sell the car for the price he said immediately before the incident. 
The Investigator carefully considered the impact of the hire car companys contact with Mr C 
and his family, including their young children when visits to the home occurred for delivery 
and collection of the hire car. She recommended Aviva pay an additional £500 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused here. 
The Investigator accepted that there were numerous times when Mr C and his wife had to be 
available at home during the claim for delivery and collection of a hire car. Mr C says his wife 
lost earnings of £600 as a result of the lost days. The Investigator thought the overall 
compensation award Aviva had given fairly represented the distress and inconvenience 
caused. And while the Investigator agreed there had been substantial delays and failings in 
the dealing of the claim by Aviva, she thought the compensation of £750 (with the additional 
£500 she recommended) was overall fair and reasonable. 
Aviva accepted the Investigators recommendations. 
Mr C didnt agree. He believes it is reasonable for Aviva to accept the most recent estimate 
from a dealership garage and arrange the repairs at a garage of his choosing, in light of the 
problems with previous repairs. The only other independent assessment they would be 
happy with is by another equivalent dealership garage. 
Even if the depreciation is minor, Mr C doesnt see why he should incur any loss on 
depreciation as he had an agreed sale. He says it isnt his fault Aviva failed to properly repair 
his car in a timely manner. 
Mr C says the recommended award of a further £500 is insufficient to reflect the upset and 
worry caused to his family over the past year. 
They have lost thousands of pounds due to loss of earnings for the time taken off work to 
collect the car, for assessments, for delivery and collection of a hire car. 
It isnt fair for them to give up any more of their time to have the car assessed again. 
In June 2023 Mr C raised a new complaint about hire car. Our Investigator passed this to 
Aviva to consider. This doesnt form part of my decision. 
As Mr C doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investigator set out a detailed timeline of events in her views dated 13 and 29 May 
2023. So I dont intend to repeat it again here, but I can assure Mr C that I have carefully 
considered everything they have said and provided. 
I think its clear that Avivas handling of the repairs was extremely poor and this led to 
avoidable delays and disruption for far longer than necessary. 
As things stand, Aviva has offered to pay a total of £1,250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The estimate Mr C has provided is for over £8,500 to rectify the damage being claimed for. I 
appreciate that Mr C wants the estimate to be approved by Aviva and believes this is 
reasonable. But I agree with the Investigator that this is an extraordinary amount for 
additional damage Mr C says the most recent garage caused. So I think the fairest outcome 
is in line with the Investigators recommendations. I appreciate this involves further time and 
inconvenience for Mr C. But Aviva doesnt agree that the rectification repairs being claimed 
for are reasonable - and so I think this is the fairest outcome to reach here. 
The remaining issue is whether the compensation Aviva has paid is fair and enough to put 
things right. 
The awards which we give are modest - and it is to be expected that there will be some 
disruption and inconvenience involved when making a claim, to arrange for repairs, and for 
delivery and collection of a hire car. But in this case its clear that Avivas failings meant the 
disruption to Mr C and his family went far beyond what would be considered reasonable. 
I think Aviva could and should have been proactive at times in extending the use of car hire. 
After all, I think its clear that Mr Cs request for a suitable hire car was entirely reasonable 
and one he was entitled to under the policy. And as his car wasnt driveable for around 11 
months, this was not down to anything Mr C did - but due to poor repairs which Aviva is 
ultimately responsible for. There were times when the car hire company were in contact with 
Mr C and not aware that the term of hire had been extended by Aviva. This caused anxiety 
when either Mr C and his wife couldnt drive the hire car as they were no longer insured - or 
required further visits for delivery and collection of a hire car and discussions with the hire 
car company around having the hire care reported as stolen - when clearly it wasnt.
Im in no doubt that Mr C and his familys experience with Aviva under this claim has caused 
considerable distress and inconvenience. We take a general approach to the impact and 
losses incurred as a result of an insurers failings, rather than considering a prescriptive 
claim for loss of wages, or depreciation. Having reviewed the information provided by Mr C, 
Im not satisfied this proves that he had sold the car immediately before the incident. 
So I think a total compensation award of £1,250 - along with the recommendations for the 
claim for further damage - is overall reasonable to resolve Mr Cs complaint. This means Im 
not asking Aviva to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
increase the compensation award from £750 to a total of £1,250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor handling of the claim. 
Pay the costs for Mr C to select an independent engineer for Aviva to appoint, in 
order that the independent engineer (independent from a branded dealership garage) 
can assess the car and the most recent estimate to conclude a fair and reasonable 
repair cost - and also to make a decision in respect of the trim paint which remains in 
dispute between Aviva and Mr C. 
Pay Mr C a CIL settlement if appropriate in line with the independent engineers 
recommendations.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman