DRN-1300583
The complaint
Mr M complains that he received unnecessary correspondence from Lloyds Bank Plc 
(Lloyds) asking him to confirm his tax residency. Hes also unhappy that Lloyds didnt 
respond to his requests for clarification about the correspondence he had received. 
What happened
On 18 March 2019 Lloyds sent Mr M a pack headed tax residency self certification or 
entities. After Mr M read this correspondence carefully he returned it, on 1 April 2019, 
asking whether he needed to complete the form as he was not an entity.
On 17 April Mr M received further correspondence from Lloyds, which asked him to return 
the form by 16 June 2019. As Mr M hadnt received a response from Lloyds to his query he 
contacted it by telephone to request guidance on completing the form. But Lloyds wasnt 
able to assist him over the telephone. So, it recommended he visit a branch.
When Mr M visited his local branch it wasnt able to give him guidance about this form. So 
he wrote to Lloyds on 4 May to ask advice. Mr M didnt receive a response to his 
correspondence so he sent a duplicate of his letter to Lloyds on 27 May by special delivery. 
Mr M said this letter was received and signed for by Lloyds on 29 May. However, he still 
didnt receive a response.
On 4 June Mr M contacted Lloyds by telephone to chase a response to his query. He said he 
was told the address hed been sending his correspondence to was a central sorting office, 
which would forward mail to the correct department. During this phone call Mr M was 
instructed on how to complete the form. 
Mr M completed the form as instructed and took it to his local branch on around 11 June. He 
asked his branch to forward his form to the correct department. But he still received no 
response. So, on 21 June Mr M lodged a formal complaint with Lloyds to which he received 
a telephone response on 25 June.
During that telephone call Lloyds said it explained that it had sent Mr M the form in error and 
that he therefore didnt need to complete it. It apologised for overlooking his correspondence 
and it offered him £50 compensation to recognise the poor service hed experienced. This 
was confirmed by Lloyds in its final response to Mr Ms complaint, which was dated 27 June 
2019.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with how Lloyds had responded to his complaint or the explanations it 
had provided as to what had happened. So, he asked our service to investigate his 
complaint.  
Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr M and Lloyds had provided but thought Lloyds 
had resolved Mr Ms complaint fairly overall. They didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
But Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr M and Lloyds that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would like. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds accepted it had sent Mr M a Common Reporting Standard tax residency self 
certification form in error. It said this was due to a mistake in how his account had been set 
up when it was opened. However, Mr M didnt know that until 25 June 2019 when this was 
confirmed by Lloyds over the telephone. And I can see the considerable efforts he made to 
try and clarify with Lloyds whether a response from him was needed.
Based on what Ive seen Mr M didnt receive a written response to his queries about 
completing the form until Lloyds telephone call of 25 June and its final response letter dated 
27 June 2019. Its clear the explanation offered by Lloyds doesnt go into the level of detail 
Mr M wanted, or expected. But impartially, I think Lloyds provided all the information its able 
to give Mr M about why it sent him the form he received. It isnt able to elaborate any further 
and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Lloyds to do anymore here. 
Lloyds has accepted Mr M received poor service over the telephone when he contacted it to 
query whether he was required to complete the form he received. It also acknowledged it 
consistently failed to respond to correspondence he sent asking for guidance about the form. 
Mr M wants Lloyds to explain why it ignored the communication he sent it. But based on 
what Ive seen I dont think it can provide any more detail to Mr M about why it provided poor 
service in this regard. As our investigator mentioned, Lloyds accepted its service wasnt the 
usual standard it would expect. And I think its told him as much as it can about its 
shortcomings here. So, Im not going to ask it to elaborate further. 
To recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr M was caused by what happened Lloyds 
offered to compensate him £50, which he rejected.
I appreciate the frustration Mr M must have felt having to chase Lloyds for guidance about 
whether he was required to complete the form he received. But we arent here to punish 
businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked it to apologise for what happened here 
and pay an appropriate award of compensation to reflect the poor service Mr M received. 
Mr M has told our service that he isnt asking Lloyds to increase the offer of compensation 
its already made. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether it was a fair 
and reasonable amount. 
Having taken everything into account Im satisfied the compensation already offered is a 
reasonable amount. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. And the amount offered in line with our approach in similar scenarios  so I wont be ordering Lloyds to increase its offer. As Mr M rejected the compensation Lloyds 
offered him, he should contact Lloyds directly if he wishes to accept it.
I can see that Mr M is unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with his complaint. But, strictly 
speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I did think Lloyds hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold 
that element of his concerns or make an award. So, I wont address this any further here.
I understand Mr M feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
he will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve 
his dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M any further 
with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr M to decide whether 
he wishes to approach Lloyds Bank Plc to accept the £50 it offered to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman