DRN-4313967
The complaint
Mr M complains about American International Group UK Limiteds handling of claims made 
after he lost mobile phones.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr M has an insurance policy underwritten by AIG which covers his mobile phone.
In May 2023, he made a claim after his iPhone 14 Pro Max was stolen. AIG accepted the 
claim and sent Mr M a replacement phone in mid-June 2023.
Mr M reported that the screen on his replacement phone was cracked, so AIG arranged for a 
delivery company to pick up the damaged phone and provide Mr M with another 
replacement.
AIG say the phone Mr M sent back wasnt the iPhone 14 Pro Max theyd provided  it was 
an earlier model. They tried to contact Mr M to discuss this, without any success at first. In 
the meantime, Mr M made another claim  in mid-July 2023 - for the latest replacement, 
saying it had been lost.
AIG told Mr M they wouldnt deal with his latest claim unless and until the issue about the 
previously returned phone was resolved. They wanted Mr M to pay them for the phone they 
said he hadnt returned.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to AIG. And when they maintained their 
position, Mr M brought his complaint to us. 
He wants AIG to process the latest claim - and to accept that he had in fact returned the 
correct phone in June 2023. He also believes AIG have refused to share evidence in their 
possession relating to the exchange in June 2023.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint in part. They said it was likely on 
balance that Mr M had returned the wrong phone in June 2023. But that didnt mean that 
AIG could leave the latest claim unresolved until Mr M paid for the phone he ought to have 
returned.
They said AIG should consider the latest claim and decide whether they were going to settle 
it or not. But if they agreed to pay out on the latest claim, it was reasonable for them to offset 
that payment against any money owed to them by Mr M for the non-returned iPhone 14 Max 
Pro.
AIG accepted our investigators view. Mr M did not and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. He thinks its fair for AIG to process the latest claim, but he doesnt agree that 
they should be able to offset any pay out against the money AIG say he owes them  
because he did, he says, return the correct phone in mid-June 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exchange of phones in mid-June 2023
Our investigator explained to Mr M and AIG why they felt that on balance the evidence 
suggested Mr M had returned the wrong phone in mid-June 2023. I dont intend to repeat the 
detail of that explanation again.
Suffice to say, the delivery company have provided a photograph of the phone they say they 
picked up from Mr M. The phone in the photograph is clearly not an iPhone 14 Max Pro.
The file name for the photograph matches the consignment number for the delivery to Mr M 
and the tracking number for that delivery. 
The delivery company have confirmed for us that they dont check the goods delivered 
and/or returned or record what the contents of any package are. But they do take a 
photograph of anything theyre asked to return.
That suggests that neither AIG nor the delivery company have access to any other records 
or information that they havent provided to Mr M in this case  which was one of his 
complaint points.
It also suggests that either Mr M returned the wrong phone or the delivery company and/or 
AIG are deliberately and intentionally engaging in criminal activity, if not a criminal 
conspiracy, to defraud Mr M.
Given that there is absolutely no evidence to suggest the latter is true  and given that it is 
inherently unlikely  I agree with our investigator that on balance the most likely explanation 
is that Mr M returned the wrong phone. I make no comment at all on whether that may have 
been intentional or a mistake.
I dont think its unreasonable then for AIG to conclude that Mr M in effect owes them an 
iPhone 14 Max Pro. Presumably theyll return the earlier model in the photograph to Mr M 
once he settles that bill.
Mr M has very recently sent us a copy of an email from AIG which says they will consider 
asking the delivery company to open a further investigation into the matter. If AIG wish to do 
that  and remain open to changing their stance if new evidence emerges  then thats up to 
them and no-one could accuse them of being unreasonable. 
However, I dont think that, as things stand, its unfair or unreasonable for AIG to conclude 
that Mr M sent them the wrong phone back based on the evidence currently available.
The latest claim
I agree with our investigator  and AIG have also now accepted this  that AIG cant just 
leave the latest claim in limbo whilst they wait for either new evidence to emerge or (more 
likely) Mr M to pay them what they say he owes after he didnt return the correct phone.
Mr M has paid his premiums and his policy has not been voided or cancelled. So, he has a 
right to think that any claim will be considered on its merits. I neednt labour this point 
because it seems to me that all parties now agree with our view that AIG should consider the claim. 
I make no comment at all on what the outcome of that claim might be. As our investigator 
pointed out, if Mr M doesnt like the outcome, he can make a complaint to AIG about that  
and then bring it to us if he isnt satisfied with their response.
To get to the crux of this issue, given that Ive concluded (see above) that Mr M likely 
returned he wrong phone in mid-June 2023, it follows that it would not be unreasonable or 
unfair for AIG to offset any pay out on the most recent claim against the money they say 
Mr M owes them for not returning the previous iPhone 14 Max Pro.
Of course, that may change if AIG do carry out further investigations through the delivery 
company and find further evidence or information to make them change their minds about 
the exchange of phones in mid-June 2023. But as things stand, I think theyd be entitled to 
offset any pay out on the latest claim against the phone which was likely not returned in mid-
June 2023.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, AIG must now consider his latest claim and tell Mr M whether 
they will settle it or decline it.
To be clear, they must not refuse to consider that claim until the issues with the previous 
claim are resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part.
American International Group UK Limited must consider - and make a decision about  
Mr Ms latest claim relating to his lost mobile phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman