DRN-3328690
The complaint
Ms R complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) asked 
her to pay their success fee for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims she said 
she made direct with her lender.
What happened
Ms R said she asked FTR to check whether shed any mis-sold PPI claims. And when shed 
a successful claim with one of her lenders Ill call C she paid FTR their success fee. But 
Ms R said shed asked FTR not to pursue any claims with another lender Ill call F as she 
said shed made her claims direct with them. Ms Rs claims with F were successful. But 
FTR has asked her to pay their success fee for all these claims. Ms R complained to FTR.
FTR said letters of authority (LoA) had been signed in July 2019 and theyd acted in good 
faith in submitting the LoA to each of Ms Rs lenders, including F. They said theyd 
submitted Ms Rs mis-sold PPI claims based on the information provided to them in her initial 
application. FTR said theyd updated Ms R when PPI had been found, and from this point 
theyd provided her with their claims service. In March 2020, FTR said theyd asked Ms R to 
complete another LoA and a PPI questionnaire specifically for her claims with F as these 
had been asked for by F. Ms R had completed and returned these to them. They said 
theyd sent these with a letter of complaint to F later that month. In April 2020, F told FTR 
that Ms Rs claims had been successful. They said the success of the claims were from the 
submission they sent to F and they hadnt seen any evidence to show Ms R had made her 
claim with the lender herself. And so they said their fees were justified.  
Ms R wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Ms R had authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue her mis-sold 
PPI claims. She said she hadnt seen any evidence of Ms R claiming direct to F. And as 
her claim was successful, she said FTR could ask for their fees to be paid. Ms R didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms R said shed told FTR not to pursue her claims with F as she was dealing with these 
claims herself. FTR feel strongly that it was their submission of the LoA that meant Ms Rs 
PPI claims were successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Its not in dispute that Ms R signed FTRs LoA in July 2019 and March 2020. So, 
in making my decision I need to determine whether FTR knew she no longer wanted them to 
work for her. I will also look to see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with her.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of 
claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. 
Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen 
the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was 
accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto 
converted. But for others the lender could ask for wet signature (handwritten not digital) and for 
a PPI questionnaire to be completed. 
So, Ive looked at what has happened. FTR has shown us a signed LoA with Ms Rs details 
dated 24 July 2019, which was shortly before the deadline for making such claims. The 
personal details supplied match those Ms R has given us. 
FTR has said Ms R would have needed to agree to their terms and conditions for the LoA to 
be generated. And that the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. FTRs 
terms and conditions said:
 Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
I can see in early March 2020 F sent confirmation to FTR following FTRs submission of 
the LoA, that they were investigating mis-sold PPI claims for Ms R for five personal loans 
and a credit card. And included a PPI questionnaire for completion. In the same month, FTR 
asked Ms R to wet sign another LoA and to complete the PPI questionnaire. The 
notification went on to say the claim couldnt progress without both these steps being taken. 
And FTRs records show that these steps were taken by Ms R, and after receiving them 
back they sent a formal letter of complaint to F later that month  March 2020. They 
submitted the PPI questionnaire the next month. In April 2020, F told FTR that the first of her 
mis-sold PPI claims was successful. The notification, dated 20 April 2020, clearly shows a FTR 
customer reference and asked FTR to send Ms R an Advice of Credit form to show her the 
breakdown of the calculation for her redress.
FTRs records show that 24 April 2020 Ms R told them that shed approached F before they 
had. And later that month, she said she hadnt asked FTR to pursue the claim with F.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled. And go on to 
give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done, telephone, in writing or in person.
I think until PPI is found Ms Rs agreement would have only been for a free PPI check. So, I 
consider the 14-day cooling off period would start from the date Ms R would have been 
notified that PPI had been found as this is when FTRs claims service would begin. On 16 March 2020 FTR told Ms R  You have paid PPI . , so Ms R would have had up to 30 
March 2020 to cancel the agreement without cost. But I havent seen any evidence of Ms R 
cancelling the agreement during this time. The terms and conditions go on to say:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the 
cooling off period, however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a 
claim our fee will be due. If You cancel Your Claim(s) after an offer of reasonable 
Compensation is made to You, then FTR shall be entitled to issue the Fee(s) that would be 
payable
From what I can see Ms R didnt dispute FTRs authority to act on her behalf in making mis-
sold PPI claims to F before her claim was successful. 
As the deadline for making mis-sold PPI claims was 29 August 2019, any claim received after the 
deadline wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional 
circumstances for doing so. I havent seen any evidence that Ms R submitted a mis-sold PPI 
claim to F before the submission sent by FTR. And as outlined above I think F in keeping FTR 
updated about Ms Rs claims and telling them when her claim(s) were successful I think shows 
F saw FTR as being Ms Rs authorised representative and that they werent dealing solely with 
her.
The agreement Ms R would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRs fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think 
Ms R's claim was submitted by FTR prior to the August deadline, the claims were 
successful, and she hadnt cancelled the agreement before the success of her claims. I think 
FTR is justified in charging their fees.
I know Ms R will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman