DRN-3360325
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) failed to retain a 
cherished number plate when his lease ended.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I can understand Mr Ks disappointment at losing his cherished plate. Hes explained that it 
was a gift from his wife, and I can understand it had sentimental value.
Im not however persuaded that VWFS were aware the plate was a cherished plate or that 
they therefore had any responsibility to explain the process of removing cherished plates 
and deregistering them before returning the car. Thats because I can see the plate was 
already on the vehicle before the agreement started and in those circumstances I cant see 
VWFS would be aware theyd need to advise their customer to remove it at the end of the 
agreement.
It wasnt until about two weeks after the car was returned that Mr K contacted VWFS to ask 
about how to retain the plates and that was the first I can see VWFS knew about the issue. 
So, I dont think the loss of the plate was their responsibility and I dont think it would 
therefore be fair to ask them to refund the cost of the plate or pay any compensation for the 
loss.
But I do think VWFS could have handled the process better for Mr K once hed advised them 
of the problem. I think they could have told Mr K there was a chance the plate wouldnt be 
recoverable and the letters their agents sent confirming the reregistration were confusing 
and inaccurate. 
Putting things right
I think those matters would have caused Mr K distress and inconvenience. VWFS have 
already agreed to pay Mr K £100 in compensation but I would agree with our investigator 
that they should pay a further £75 to recognise the impact of the misleading letters they sent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr K a further £75 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman