DRN-2266449
The complaint
Mr G is seeking to recover £20,085.72 from Metro Bank PLC (Metro), which was stolen 
from his current account as a result of a third-party scam.
Metro says it is not liable for the loss because Mr G unwittingly authorised the payments 
himself - and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more than it did to try to 
recoup the money from the receiving banks.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, would be to uphold it for the following reasons:
It is not in dispute that Mr G authorised the scam payments of £24,300 himself - 
£4,214.28 of which was later returned. He received a call from someone purporting to be 
from his internet and phoneline provider, who told him they had some concerns about 
the security on his PC. During a long call, lasting a couple of hours, Mr G was told that 
his internet provider was working with the National Crime Agency and the police in order 
to catch computer hackers. Mr G was told if he helped with the investigation, he would 
receive a reward. In order to help catch the hackers, Mr G was told to make payments to 
various different bank accounts and when the fraudsters went into branch to pick up 
these payments, the police would be waiting to catch them. 
Over the course of the next couple of days, Mr G made the following payments 
(highlighted in bold):
Date Time Type of transaction / 
Location Amount Remaining Balance
24/09/18 £24,086.04
24/09/18 13:47 New payee/new payment 
to payee 1£4,900 £19,186.04
24/09/18 14:09 Payment to payee 1 £4,900 £14,286.04
24/09/18 14:22 New payee/new payment 
to payee 2£4,200 £10,086.04
24/09/18 15:16 Mr G calls Metro because 
payments hadnt reached 
the beneficiaries accounts. 
Metro confirmed the 
payments can sometimes 
take 24 hours to be 
processed
24/09/18 16:14 Payment to payee 3 £4,800 £5,286.04
24/09/18 16:46 The payments flag on 
Metros systems. Metro 
attempted to call Mr G but 
there was no answer. Metro 
left a voicemail and send a 
text
24/09/18 16:49 Mr G called as payments 
hadnt reached the 
beneficiaries accounts. He 
told Metro he didnt want to 
keep calling the bank. 
Metro again confirmed that 
payments can sometimes 
take 24 hours to be 
processed
24/09/18 17:00 Mr G calls Metro back as 
hed received its text. Metro 
explained it needed to 
check the payments were 
genuine and authorised by 
him. Mr G authorises the 
release of funds. Metro 
released the payments
24/09/18 17:30 Payment to payee 1 £2,000 £3,286.04
24/9/18 
-25/9/18ATM withdrawal & card 
payments debit the account 
25/09/18 Inward payment £358.50 £3,560.29
25/09/18 12:53 New payee/new payment 
to payee 4£3,500 £60.29
25/09/18 13:49 Mr Gs payment flagged on 
Metros systems. Metro 
attempted to call Mr G but 
there was no answer. Metro 
left a voicemail and send a 
text
25/09/18 13:53 Mr G calls Metro as hed 
received its text. Metro 
advised what payment was 
being held and confirmed it 
would release it 
immediately. Metro 
released the payment
26/09/18 Mr G informed Metro he 
was the victim of a scam
26/09/18 Metro raised indemnities 
with four beneficiary banks.  
01/10/18 Bank 1 confirmed no funds 
remains 
17/10/18 Bank 2 returns £4,200
18/10/18 Bank 3 returns £6.95
13/12/18 Bank 4 returns £7.33 
Total £24,300
Some of the fraudulent payments were flagged by Metros security systems for further 
fraud checks before they were released and Mr G spoke to Metro on a number of occasions whilst the scam was taking place  Mr G called to ask why the payments had 
not been credited to the beneficiaries accounts as soon as he wouldve liked and he 
spoke to the fraud department twice in order to release the blocked payments. 
In the background, Mr G was also still in contact with the fraudster who told him that a 
number of the criminals had been apprehended and some were still waiting to be caught. 
Finally, on 26 September 2018, Mr G realised he had been the victim of a scam which he 
reported to Metro on the same day.  
Upon notification of the scam, Metro got in touch with the beneficiary banks and was 
ultimately able to recover £4,214.28 but no further funds remained and Metro declined to 
offer Mr G a refund of his remaining losses. 
I accept that these payments were authorised even though Mr G was the victim of a scam. 
He used his security credentials to request the payments online. So, although he did not 
intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Metro initially declined to refund Mr G the £20,085.72 he had lost. It said it didnt believe 
it had done anything wrong in carrying out his instructions to make the payments. It said 
that some of the payments were initially held for additional fraud checks but it had 
spoken to Mr G before releasing them and he had told its staff that he had authorised 
the payments himself and wished for them to be released.
It is therefore common ground that there were fraud triggers in this case because Metro 
staff did in fact intervene before the payments were processed. Although its not quite 
clear to me whether it was the first or second payment that was blocked by Metros 
security systems. Regardless, Im satisfied that the first payment was unusual for Mr G 
and uncharacteristic for the account. It was being sent to a new payee and there had 
been no comparable legitimate payments in recent times. Mr G had not authorised any Faster Payments out of his account in the proceeding months. And so, Metro should have 
taken the time to question Mr G about the payment before it processed it. 
Metro has provided our service with copies of call recordings of the conversations it had 
with Mr G about the payments at the time. As Ive said, it is not clear to me whether these 
initial conversations are about the first or second payment - it isnt clear which payment of 
£4,900 has been flagged for additional checks. But even if the conversations I have been 
able to listen to refer to the second payment and not the first, I think its reasonable to 
presume that any conversation about the first payment wouldve been along similar lines. 
Accordingly, its now just a question of whether Metro did enough during these calls. And 
Im satisfied Metro ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to have 
done more - I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of and the 
circumstances leading up to the payments before it released them. 
And I dont think a conversation with Mr G about whether he had authorised the payments 
alone was good enough to satisfy Metro that Mr G wasnt at risk of financial harm. I 
acknowledge that there is a balance to be struck between identifying potentially fraudulent 
payments and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But in this particular case, 
disruption had already been caused, the payments had been stopped for review.
Ive thought carefully about the conversations that were had with Mr G and Ive also 
listened to the call recordings of these conversations which Metro has provided to this 
service. In the first call Mr G is asked if the payment is genuine and if hes happy for it to 
be released. Mr G answers yes to both questions. In the second call with Metros fraud 
team, the member of staff confirms the payment amount and the intended beneficiary. The 
payment is then released. 
Im not satisfied that either of these calls goes far enough. And Im not satisfied that simply 
asking Mr G if it was him that made the payments and confirming the amounts is good 
enough to fulfil Metros obligations to protect its customers from financial harm. Whilst this 
type of review and follow up conversation may protect customers from unauthorised use of 
their account, in that it informs a customer a payment is leaving their account, which they 
then have the ability to stop, it has very little impact on customers who are the victims of 
well-known authorised push payment scams - such as this one.
One of the intrinsic characteristics of this type of scam is that the customer makes the 
payment themselves, not knowing they are being scammed. And so a conversation 
along the lines of what Metro had with Mr G in this case wouldnt have prevented him 
from falling victim to this type of scam. It potentially fails to protect any customer who 
believes they are in the process of making a legitimate payment. For these reasons, I 
think Metro ought to have asked Mr G some probing questions about the payments 
before it released them. Had it done so, I believe the scam would have been revealed 
and prevented. Ill explain why.
Mr G fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common. And its a type of scam Im 
satisfied Metro ought to have been aware of at the time. If Metro had questioned Mr G 
about what the payments were for, he most likely wouldve told Metro he was making the 
payments to help catch some computer hackers and he was working with both the 
National Crime Agency and the police. Mr G hadnt been provided with a cover-story by 
the fraudster and he had no reason to say anything else  this is what he believed he 
was doing. And it seems likely to me that this answer wouldve put Metro on notice that 
Mr G was at risk of falling victim to a well-known scam. Metro couldve then educated Mr 
G about this type of scam and its key characteristics. It also couldve told Mr G that the 
reason provided for the transfers didnt sound particularly plausible  neither his internet provider nor the police would ask him to make payments out of his account in order to 
catch criminals. Had Metro done so, Im persuaded that this would likely have produced 
some doubt in Mr Gs mind and effectively broken the spell so Mr G wouldnt have gone 
on to make the payments. 
In summary, Im persuaded Metro ought fairly and reasonably have questioned Mr G 
about the reasons for the payments to satisfy itself that they were legitimate. In other 
words, if the staff had carried out further or better questioning in line with a banks duty of 
care, it seems probable that Mr G would have become credulous as to what was really 
taking place. At this point the scam would have come to light. The fraud would have 
failed; and Mr G would not have lost £20,085.72
It took 48 hours for the scam to come to light and by then it was too late  the 
majority of the funds had already been removed from the beneficiary accounts (which 
meant Metro could not, despite efforts, recover any more of Mr Gs funds).
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for 
completeness, I will say that, it would have made no difference because the recipient 
banks records show that the scammers withdrew the majority of the money before Mr G 
had notified Metro of his concerns.
I have also considered whether Mr G should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing  he thought 
he was helping to prevent financial crime, not facilitating it. I am satisfied there was no 
contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr G was the unwitting victim of a clever 
fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr G was a layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied Metro should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr G for 
the loss suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. 
trouble and upset
Mr G has told us he has been left shaken by the scam and his dealings with Metro. He has 
been left without funds in his account, which he had previously been using to live on. Mr G 
has told us that at times, this has left him suicidal. And so I think it appropriate to award Mr 
G £100 in compensation for the stress caused during this period. In reaching that conclusion 
I am mindful that his loss was ultimately caused by the callous act of a fraudster and the 
circumstances Mr G found himself in were largely outside of Metros control. But Metro 
could ultimately have prevented the payments from leaving Mr Gs account and reduced the 
stress and financial pressure he has faced during this period. 
 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC and direct it to:
refund Mr G the remaining £20,085.72 that he lost as part of the scam; 
pay interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date the payments left the 
account to the date of settlement*; andpay £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
*If Metro Bank PLC deducts tax from the interest element of this award it should provide Mr G with the 
appropriate tax certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if applicable.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman