DRN-2194077
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) failed to carry out repairs correctly 
under its home emergency insurance policy which caused damage to his home. He would 
like his expenses paid and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr B noticed a stain on his living room ceiling and called Aviva. It sent an engineer (H) who 
said the hot water cylinder was leaking and needed to be replaced. H turned the heating off 
and drained the system, leaving Mr B and his young family without hot water. The parts were 
expected within a few days. Mr B said the leak continued, so he called Aviva again. H 
returned and said the cylinder couldnt be fully emptied but drained the radiators to assist.
Mr B says this didnt stop the leak and there was now a delay getting parts. It would be 
several days before both parts and H would be available. Mr B found he could get the parts 
himself and asked Aviva if he could arrange his own plumber (P) to do the work. Aviva 
agreed. 
P confirmed the cylinder was still leaking. It reduced this by cutting insulation away to access 
and tighten a nut. P used a vacuum to empty the rest of the water from the cylinder before 
replacing it. P couldnt finish the job until the next day as it said the radiator drain (left open 
by H) was damaged and needed to be replaced.
Mr B complained to Aviva saying his ceiling was saturated and in danger of collapse and the 
carpet was soaked and damaged. He bought a dehumidifier and asked Aviva to reimburse 
him for this and to cover the costs relating to the ceiling and carpet. Mr B obtained two 
estimates for the ceiling, which averaged £2,627.50. He says both firms advised the ceiling 
would need full replacement. 
Aviva agreed to pay for the dehumidifier and arranged for a surveyor to inspect the property. 
The surveyor agreed the ceiling was damaged and said H was at fault. The surveyor said 
there was some existing damage to the ceiling. But that caused by this leak could be 
repaired. It estimated this at £1,455.30 and gave a detailed cost breakdown. The report 
didnt mention the carpet.
Aviva paid Mr B £1,455.30 for the ceiling. Mr B replied that this was only the cost of 
replacing the carpet and Aviva should also pay the average of the estimates to replace the 
ceiling. In its final response to Mr Bs complaint Aviva said it would only pay £1,455.30 and 
£150 in compensation. This made no mention of the carpet. Mr B didnt accept the 
compensation figure and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it. He upheld the complaint but there was some confusion about 
the surveyors report and our investigator said the £1,445.30 offered by Aviva only covered 
the cost of replacing the carpet. He said as the surveyors report confirmed there was pre-
existing damage to the ceiling Aviva should pay 50% of Mr Bs estimated repair costs (of 
£2,627.50) in addition to the £1,455.30 already paid. He said the £150 compensation already 
offered was fair.
In reply both Mr B and Aviva disagreed with the investigators view. Mr B accepted there 
were some issues with the ceiling. It was old and had been wallpapered at some point. He 
said the leak had made things worse. And both contractors had said as the ceiling was of 
lath and plaster construction it needed full replacement. He said Aviva should pay his full 
estimate to do this. 
Aviva said it had already made a payment in respect of the ceilings as per the surveyors 
report and hadnt mentioned carpets in the settlement. It continued:
Therefore, we have awarded a payment towards the costs the customer is seeking. 
We have never agreed to pay anything towards carpets and they havent been 
mentioned in either the report from our   surveyor or the resolution given to the 
customer.....
As neither Mr B nor Aviva agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 28 August 2020. I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Some inconvenience is inevitable with water leaks and central heating problems.  The delay 
in obtaining parts was outside Avivas control and in quickly agreeing that Mr B could use his 
own plumber it acted fairly and reasonably. But Aviva accepts there were failings and more 
damage to Mr Bs home than there should have been. So, the issue for me to decide is 
whether what it has offered to put this right is reasonable. At this stage, Im inclined to think 
that it isnt. 
The Ceiling
The payment of £1,455.30 made by Aviva was in respect of the ceiling, being the surveyors 
estimated repair cost. Mr B says the ceiling needs full replacement. It may be possible to 
repair lath and plaster ceilings although many contractors do seem to prefer to plasterboard 
over them. 
It isnt reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for the cost of repairing any pre-existing 
damage. As the surveyor is expert, I think its estimate is likely to be fair and reasonable. But 
Mr B clearly doesnt think he has accepted a payment for the ceiling so I will come back to 
this below. 
The Carpet 
Mr B refers to damage to his carpet in his initial complaints to Aviva before the surveyor 
attended. But it isnt mentioned the surveyors report or addressed in Avivas final response. 
I asked both Aviva and Mr B about this. Mr B expressed surprise that the carpet wasnt 
mentioned in surveyors report as he was sure it was referred to, so possibly this was 
verbally. Mr B said the damage to the carpet was obvious when the surveyor attended but he didnt have any photographs of this himself. The copy of the report provided to our 
service is of poor quality and the photographs are too blurry to show anything.
Mr B said hed told Aviva the estimate in the surveyors report only covered the cost of 
replacing the carpet rather than the ceiling and I can see this on Avivas file. He confirmed 
that he hasnt had the ceiling repaired. He didnt confirm whether he has replaced the carpet. 
Aviva said it could see Mr B had raised the issue of the carpet. But it couldnt see it had been 
mentioned it its communication back to Mr B and it hadnt provided redress to replace the 
carpet.
So, it isnt clear why Aviva didnt consider Mr Bs carpet. It seems reasonable that Mr Bs 
carpet could suffer damage as a result of the leak. Mr B said so at outset and he also raised 
it in his complaint. So, I think Aviva should have considered it. And I think its reasonable that 
it is responsible for any expenses Mr B has in respect of the carpet, such as cleaning of the 
carpet.
Putting things right
I thought Mr B had been inconvenienced more than he should have been. I thought about 
what a fair outcome would be. But to be clear to Mr B, I said I couldnt reasonably ask Aviva 
to meet any costs for the carpet without evidence of the expenses he has or will incur in 
respect of it.
 
Mr B has consistently said these costs are similar to what Aviva has already paid. I said if 
this is the case, and Mr B remains of the view that the ceiling cant be repaired for that 
amount of money. Then, I thought a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Aviva to 
arrange for its own contractors to now undertake the repair to the ceiling with, say the 
surveyor, to determine whether the repair is of acceptable quality. 
This puts Mr B back in the position he should be in terms of expenses and repairing the 
damage. I said if Mr B hadnt had that level of expense for the carpet, he may prefer a cash 
settlement as appropriate. 
Compensation
I said Mr B had also suffered more trouble and upset than he should have and has needed 
to bring a complaint to get matters resolved. Aviva has offered £150 compensation, which Mr 
B hasnt accepted, and I didnt think this was adequate. Under the circumstance here I 
thought it was fair and reasonable that Aviva increase the compensation to £250.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 September 2020.
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva said it accepted my decision.
Mr B accepted the compensation figure and provided information about the carpet. He said 
he would still prefer the ceiling to be replaced. 
In terms of the carpet Mr B confirmed it hadnt been replaced or professionally cleaned, 
partly because he wanted to get the ceiling dealt with first. Hed tried to clean it himself 
without success. He provided a photograph of his beige coloured carpet showing a dark 
stain. Mr B also provided a screenshot from a carpet retailers website showing a price to supply and fit a carpet he says is of comparable quality. This totalled £1,474.50, so in 
keeping with the figure hed suggested previously.
In terms of the ceiling Mr B said he would accept Avivas contractors but would prefer full 
replacement. He said boarding over the existing ceiling would be unacceptable due to loss of 
height and the impact on the coving between the ceiling and walls. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint along the lines of my provisional 
decision.
In terms of putting things right, I think the payment Aviva has already made satisfies the 
issue with the carpet.
As for the ceiling, it isnt reasonable for me to tell Aviva to replace the whole ceiling if the 
damage it is responsible for can be acceptably repaired. That said Mr Bs points about the 
height and coving seem reasonable requirements in terms of putting him back in the position 
he was in. The surveyors report didnt identify any concerns in this regard. It states the 
relevant section of ceiling can be patch repaired and skimmed with the entire ceiling to be 
redecorated and walls painted as necessary. 
So, subject to this being the case I think a fair outcome is for Aviva to arrange contractors to 
repair the ceiling. I think Mr B has suffered more trouble and upset than he should have, and 
Aviva should pay him £250 in compensation for this.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold the complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to resolve Mr Bs complaint by arranging for 
contractors to complete repairs in line with the surveyors report. 
I further direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £250 in compensation for his trouble and 
upset.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman