DRN-4281525
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
incorrectly paid adviser charges from his group personal pension plan. He also complains 
that Royal London gave him incorrect and misleading information about these charges. 
What happened
Mr H has held a group personal pension plan with Royal London since March 2008. This 
was set up by his employer at the time. 
On 4 January 2022, Mr H contacted Royal London by phone and email for information about 
his plan. Mr H asked whether money from his fund had ever been paid to a financial adviser. 
The agent told him it hadnt. 
Royal London provided Mr H with the commission history for his plan by secure message on 
13 January 2022. This included a table with three named IFAs. And 14 rows of 
Remuneration amounts totalling £57,850.68. 
Royal London said that between 13 January 2019 and 13 January 2022, its charges had 
been £11,141.17, with £620.19 in external fund management charges. And that the 
transaction costs during this time period were £767.84.
Royal London also said that the Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) it currently had listed 
on Mr Hs account  IFA M  had been incorrectly put on his account. It said IFA M had 
received £1,199.96 in adviser charges. But that as Mr H had told it he hadnt appointed IFA 
M as his adviser, it would remove it from his account and claw back the charges paid. 
Royal London also said that before IFA M had been listed on Mr Hs account, IFA B had 
been listed. It asked Mr H if he wanted IFA B to be listed as his current IFA.
Mr H complained to Royal London on 17 January 2022. He said hed been given incorrect 
information. And that Royal London hadnt been responsive to his consistent requests for 
there to be no IFA attached to his policy.
Mr H said that although hed been told on the phone that no monies had ever been paid from 
his fund to IFAs, Royal Londons secure message had shown that not to be the case. He 
asked Royal London whether any other IFAs had been put on his account. And what monies 
had been paid to them. He also felt that the table Royal London had sent seemed to show 
that as much as £57,850.68 had been paid out to IFAs, none of which hed appointed. 
Mr H asked Royal London to confirm the total amount of compensation paid to advisers. And 
whod given it the instructions. He said hed never heard of IFA M or IFA B. He also 
complained about Royal London not being able to provide him with his charging history 
before 13 January 2019. 
Royal London acknowledged the complaint on 20 January 2022. But as it still hadnt 
completed its investigation by mid-May, Mr H wrote to Royal Londons CEO on 23 May 
2022. He was extremely unhappy at how long his complaint was taking to resolve given the 
amount of money he felt hed lost.
Royal London issued its final response to the complaint on 30 May 2022. It apologised for 
the incorrect information Mr H had been given. And acknowledged that the table itd provided 
Mr H with on 13 January 2022 was incorrect and misleading. It said that it was Mr Hs 
employer, who had established the plan, who had engaged the adviser. And that the actual 
remuneration paid to the adviser over the life of Mr Hs plan was £5,064.63. It said that this 
amount hadnt been separately deducted from Mr Hs plan, but had been part of the 
management fees.
Royal London offered Mr H £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
incorrect information had caused him. 
Mr H wanted further clarification from Royal London about what had happened. So he wrote 
to Royal London again on 31 May 2022. He wanted to know how much had been paid in 
adviser charges. And whether any IFA connected to his account had any responsibility to 
provide him with a service before it could charge him. 
Royal London replied to Mr H on 1 June 2022. It explained that his employer wouldve 
agreed the services and remuneration with the IFA at the time the plan was set up. This 
wouldve included what proportion of the remuneration would be contributed by plan 
members. Therefore the arrangement was between the employer and the financial adviser.
Royal London explained that the table it had sent Mr H on 13 January 2022 was incorrect as 
it was based on projections, and didnt show offsetting debits that had actually been applied 
to Mr Hs plan. It also said that although £5,064.63 had been taken from Mr Hs plan, this 
had formed part of the Annual Management Charge (AMC) that had been paid throughout 
the life of the plan. And which had been disclosed and reflected in Mr Hs annual statements. 
It said the AMC had been taken throughout the life of the plan in line with the agreed policy 
conditions. And that it hadnt been paid in error.
Mr H was unhappy with Royal Londons response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service on 25 November 2022.
Our investigator acknowledged that Royal London had given Mr H confusing and incorrect 
information, which had caused him considerable distress and inconvenience. But felt that as 
Royal London had already put right any financial loss attributable to its mistakes, the £750 it 
had offered for distress and inconvenience was reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr H said he profoundly disagreed with our investigator. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Royal Londons offer of £750 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr H is fair under the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know this will be disappointing to Mr H. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision.
I first considered the information Mr H was given on the 4 January 2022 phone call with Royal London. Ive been able to listen to the first 12 minutes of this call.
4 January 2022 call
Mr H called Royal London. He said he had a number of questions after receiving his annual 
statement, which he said had surprised him. He said the statement said he had a new 
financial adviser. But that hed never instructed an adviser. He asked whod given the 
instruction, and when.
Royal London said it was at the very start of the policy. But Mr H said that the IFA hadnt 
been listed on previous statements. And that he didnt recall them being the adviser at the 
start. He asked if any money from his plan had ever gone to the listed adviser. Royal London 
said it hadnt.
Later on in the call, Mr H asked Royal London to email him a breakdown of the annual plan 
charges from the start. He also said that hed never heard of the IFA listed on his policy. Mr 
H said hed had the original adviser removed. And asked under what circumstances a 
payment would be made to IFA M. Royal London said payment would only be made if Mr H 
agreed to it. 
Mr H also asked Royal London if any payments had been made to any other financial 
advisers during the lifetime of the plan. Royal London said they hadnt. Mr H said hed never 
received any advice whatsoever.
I next considered the information Mr H was given on 13 January 2022.
13 January 2022 information
The information Royal London sent to Mr H on 13 January 2022 contradicted the information 
hed been given on 4 January 2022. It suggested Mr H had been charged adviser fees by 
three different IFA firms. Mr H was understandably concerned, as he hadnt appointed any of 
the listed advisers. And it appeared that up to £57,850.68 had been paid out to IFAs.
I consider that the commission table Royal London sent to Mr H was at best unhelpful and at 
worst extremely concerning for him. None of the information within the table was explained, 
so its understandable that Mr H felt it meant £57,850.68 had been paid in adviser charges 
over the years. 
In actual fact, Royal London hadnt paid £57,850.68 in adviser charges from Mr Hs account. 
It had paid a total of £5,793.95. These charges were correctly deducted from Mr Hs 
account. This was because when his employer set up his group personal pension plan, it 
arranged with its adviser to provide certain services for which the adviser would receive 
remuneration, some of which would be contributed by plan members. Royal London then 
administered the group personal pension plan on this basis. 
So I cant fairly say that the charges shouldnt have been deducted, or that they have been 
paid by mistake. Therefore I cant reasonably ask Royal London to refund them. 
Royal London also told Mr H that £1,199.96 had been incorrectly paid to IFA M. It said this 
was because the single premiums had been keyed incorrectly. And that it had corrected this 
to ensure there would be no financial detriment to Mr H. Royal London has also told this 
service that commission payments on single premiums had also been paid incorrectly in the 
past to IFA B. But that the commission had been returned to Mr H to ensure he had no 
financial loss. Ive not been provided with any other evidence which shows that further mistakes from Royal 
London have led to any other financial loss which has yet to be put right. And as the 
commission errors have already been corrected, Im satisfied no further action is required.
I next considered Mr Hs recent annual statements. 
Annual statements
During the 4 January 2022 call with Royal London, Mr H said that he was surprised how 
large its fees were in the last year. He said hed never seen a breakdown of the fees shown 
on his statement before. 
Royal London said that the fees had always been there. But that it had only had to include 
them on the statement that year.
Ive reviewed the two annual statements Ive been provided with. Ive focussed on the 
statement Mr H received that prompted his 4 January 2022 call with Royal London. 
Mr Hs annual statement covered the period from 1 December 2020 to 30 November 2021. It 
stated:
Costs and charges  Your plan costs and charges have already been deducted. This also 
includes the cost of advice.
It also said:
The total costs and charges paid from your plan 1 December 2020  30 November 2021 
£5,439.35.
And gave a breakdown of that total as follows:
Plan charges
We're managing the money and investments in your plan:
 Royal London charges £4,419.22
 External fund charges £557.52
This is equivalent to 0.96% of your plan value before transaction costs.
 Transaction costs £462.61
The adviser charges that have been deducted from Mr Hs plan are included in the Plan 
charges shown on the statement. These didnt have to be shown on statements in previous 
years. But, due to a change to regulations about the disclosure of charges, theyre required 
to be shown now. 
I appreciate that as such charges hadnt been shown on Mr Hs plan statements before, it 
wouldve been surprising to see them on the 2021 statement. So I understand why Mr H 
wanted clarification from Royal London about the charges hed paid. From what Ive seen, 
Royal London then provided Mr H with incorrect and conflicting information about the 
charges that had been deducted from his plan. This wouldve been very concerning for him, 
especially given the fact that commission had been incorrectly paid to two different IFAs.
However, Ive not seen any evidence that the commission actually charged has been taken incorrectly or is out of line with the agreed policy conditions. I do appreciate that there have 
been a number of errors and misleading information provided. The incorrect figures wouldve 
been disturbing and it has taken a considerable amount of effort for Mr H to get things put 
right. So Ive gone on to consider whether Royal Londons offer of £750 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused him was fair.
Distress and inconvenience
Mr H has told this service that he was completely baffled and bewildered by the hugely 
conflicting range of information that Royal London provided him with. He said there was a 
huge difference between being told hed paid no commission to advisers, and being told tens 
of thousands was paid.
Mr H said it had required considerable effort from him to get to grips with everything that had 
happened. He said hed had to take time off work. And that as he had lots of other important 
constraints on his time it had been very inconvenient for him. He didnt think that £750 was 
sufficient given the magnitude of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs points and the impact Royal Londons mistakes have had on 
him. Our investigator has already explained that as were not the regulator, were unable to 
recommend that a business changes its processes or adopt new ones. And we cant punish 
a business. So, although I know Mr H would like Royal London to improve the accuracy of 
the information it sends its customers, I cant ask it to do anything differently. And I cant 
suggest a punitive compensation award.
As our investigator also noted, our awards for distress and inconvenience take into account 
the impact a businesss mistake has had on a customer. And our guidelines suggest that an 
award of £750 is fair and reasonable where a business has caused considerable distress, 
upset and worry, and or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra 
effort to sort out. And with the impact typically lasting over many weeks or even months.
This has clearly been the case for Mr H. And its also clear that hes lost trust in Royal 
London given the incorrect commission payments that it made, and the misleading and 
incorrect information hes been given.
From what Ive seen, I consider that the £750 compensation Royal London offered Mr H was 
fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. As I understand that Royal 
London has yet to pay the £750 compensation, I uphold this complaint. But I dont consider 
that Royal London needs to improve its compensation offer.
Putting things right
Its my understanding that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited hasnt yet 
paid Mr H the £750 compensation it offered him. So I require The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr H £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. However, if The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited has already made all or part of the compensation payment to Mr H, it can deduct that 
amount from the £750. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited to take the action detailed in the Putting things right 
section above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman