DRN-2255359
The complaint
Mr G complains that his existing finance agreement wasnt properly settled when he entered 
into a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited under 
which a car was supplied to him.
What happened
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services, that was 
signed in July 2019, for a new car to be supplied to him. He traded-in a car and the dealer 
agreed that it would settle the existing finance on that car  but that didnt happen properly 
so an extra payment of £306 was collected from Mr Gs account.
Mr G says that it took thirteen days for the matter to be resolved leaving him £306 out of 
pocket for that period. He complained to Volkswagen Financial Services but it didnt uphold 
his complaint as it said that the issue didnt relate to an act or omission directly involving it so 
he should complain to the dealer. Mr G wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
settlement of Mr G's existing finance was discussed prior to the agreement being signed and 
that he could hold Volkswagen Financial Services responsible for the failure of that being 
executed. He recommended that Volkswagen Financial Services should recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by compensating Mr G with £120 and paying him 
interest on the £306 payment for a period of 13 days. 
Volkswagen Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman and says, in summary, that the settlement of Mr Gs existing finance agreement 
was a pre-sale negotiation between Mr G and the dealer, the dealer was only acting as its 
agent in the selling of the new car (to which the settlement wasnt linked) so it cant be held 
responsible for it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the invoice for the new car that was supplied to Mr G under the hire purchase 
agreement shows that the price of the car was £34,893 and that Mr G was trading-in 
his existing car for £4,250 and that the outstanding finance on that car of £5,996.62 
was being settled;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the finance settlement wasnt processed 
correctly which led to an additional payment of £306 being collected from Mr Gs 
account  and he says that it took thirteen days for the matter to be resolved leaving 
him £306 out of pocket for that period;
under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a credit provider can be liable, in 
certain circumstances, for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the 
consumer takes out the credit agreement;
Mr G has made his complaint to this service about Volkswagen Financial Services  
and I consider that it is jointly liable to Mr G in these circumstances for the dealers 
failure to do what it said it would do  which was to process the settlement correctly;
I understand that Mr G received a refund of the £306 about thirteen days later and 
our investigator recommended that that Volkswagen Financial Services should pay 
interest on that amount for thirteen days  which I consider to be fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances; and
these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience to Mr G and I agree 
with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Volkswagen Financial 
Services to pay him £120 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Volkswagen Financial 
Services to pay interest to Mr G on the amount of £306 for the thirteen days that he was 
without that money and that it should also pay him £120 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience that he was caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I order Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
1. Pay interest on the amount of £306 at an annual rate of 8% simple for a period of 
thirteen days.
2. Pay £120 to Mr G to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Volkswagen Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 1 above. Volkswagen Financial Services must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman