DRN-3176525
The complaint
Mr N complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr N was given a loan by TFS in February 2017. He borrowed £4,000 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr N says that his loan has been fully repaid. I have 
noted that part of this loan was used to refinance some previous borrowing that Mr N was 
repaying to TFS. But, as our investigator has explained, that lending decision wasnt the 
responsibility of TFS  it had simply acquired the loan book from the original lender in 2016. 
So here I will only deal with the loan that Mr N was given in 2017.
Mr Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that TFS 
should have gathered further information before it agreed to lend to Mr N. And she thought 
that additional information would have shown TFS that it was unlikely that Mr N would be 
able to afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So she didnt think the loan should 
have been agreed, and asked TFS to pay Mr N some compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr N accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr N required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr N. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr N undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr N.
TFS gathered some information from Mr N before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr N was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ns financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The income and expenditure that Mr N declared to TFS suggested that he would have less 
than £50 left over each month after making the repayments on his loan. And he would be left 
in that position for five years. It would only take a small increase in his normal expenditure to 
leave Mr N unable to meet his repayments.
The results of the credit check showed that Mr N had faced problems managing his money 
in the past. The check showed that he had defaulted on three accounts just over three years 
before. And one of those accounts, a short-term loan, still had an outstanding balance of 
over £1,000. I acknowledge those problems were some years before, and that Mr N 
explained they resulted from the breakdown of a relationship. And Mr N had also managed 
his recent credit far better. But I think that the presence of these problems, and the low 
disposable income, should have caused great concern to TFS and resulted in it gathering 
more information about Mr Ns finances.
Although I think TFS should have gathered some additional information before agreeing the 
loan, that in itself doesnt mean Mr Ns complaint should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that the further information would have shown TFS that Mr N couldnt sustainably 
afford the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Ns bank statements, and what hes told us 
about his financial situation, to see what further checks would have shown TFS.At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that TFS 
should have carried out. I do think TFS needed more information to corroborate what Mr N 
said was happening with his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of 
achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be 
established. But I think that by looking at Mr Ns bank statements I can get a good idea of 
what better checks might have shown.
Mr N had told TFS that his net earnings were £1,000 each month. TFS has said that it 
contacted Mr Ns employer by telephone to check his employment. But it doesnt seem likely 
that check went as far as verifying the income that Mr N had declared. Looking at Mr Ns 
bank statements it is difficult to determine his exact income  it appears that he was paid in 
cash. And so looking at the cash deposits on the bank statements might give a slightly 
pessimistic view of Mr Ns income since he might retain some of the cash to meet other 
expenses.
But it is clear from those bank statements that the average cash deposits being made by 
Mr N were significantly less than the income hed declared. In the five months before taking 
this loan, a period that covered the Christmas period that might see higher income given the 
nature of Mr Ns employment, the average cash deposits amounted to approximately £730 
per month.
As I explained earlier, TFSs own checks suggested that Mr N would have little disposable 
income after making his loan repayments based on an income of £1,000. So such a large 
reduction in his income, even after considering that he might not deposit all his earnings to 
his bank account, would clearly make it unlikely that Mr N could afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to give this loan to Mr N and 
it needs to pay him some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr N in February 2017. So TFS should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr N paid on that loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman