DRN-2258816
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Limited declined its 
claim made on its commercial motor insurance policy. Mr A, Es director, brings this 
complaint to us on its behalf. 
What happened
Collingwood initially declined Es claim following an accident because it said the car didnt 
have a Vision Track Camera installed. It later agreed that this was unfair, and it agreed to 
pay Es claim, but not for lost income due to Mr A not being able to hire out the car. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr A had 
lost income due to Collingwoods unfair decision, and he thought it should compensate Mr A 
for this. He estimated that Mr A had lost income of about £2,000 a month. And he thought E 
would have profited by 60% of this. So he thought Collingwood should pay Es claim, with 
interest, and pay compensation of £1,250 a month for Es lost profits. 
Collingwood agreed to pay the claim and interest, but not the compensation. It said if Mr A 
had had the cameras installed, there wouldnt have been any delay in the claim. And it said 
loss of use wasnt covered by the policy. To date, it hasnt paid Mr A the recommended 
interest or the compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Collingwood accepts that it declined the claim in error, so I wont consider that 
further. What remains for me to decide is how Collingwood should put things right for E. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Collingwood accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Collingwood has paid Es claim for the loss of the car. I can see that Mr A thought its 
valuation was unfair. But I cant consider that here as E would need to complain about that 
first to Collingwood as a separate complaint. 
E made its claim in February 2020. Collingwood agreed to pay the claim in September 2020 
and a settlement was paid in November 2020. So E was unable to derive income from the 
car for nine months. 
Collingwood said it wouldnt compensate Mr A for his loss on income as loss of use was 
excluded under the policy. I agree that this would apply if, for example, a car was damaged 
and awaiting repairs following a successful claim. 
But Collingwood has agreed that it declined Es claim in error. So the loss of income wasnt 
consequent on making a claim, but on Collingwoods unfairly declining it. I think Mr A has 
reasonably explained that the car couldnt be repaired or replaced without the claim 
settlement. Mr A lost income as a result. So I think this isnt a loss of use according to the 
policy terms and conditions and I think its wrong for Collingwood to apply the exclusion in 
this particular circumstance. 
Collingwood said there wouldnt have been any delays in settling the claim if Mr A had had 
the cameras installed. But I dont think this is relevant as Collingwood has accepted that it 
unfairly declined the claim. So I think Collingwood should compensate E for its loss of profit. 
Our investigator calculated the loss of income and consequent profit that E suffered due to 
the lack of settlement. I think he took the available evidence into account fairly and 
reasonably in doing this. He thought the loss of profit was £1,250 a month. Collingwood has 
had access to Es accounts and the investigators calculations, but it hasnt challenged 
these. So I can see no reason not to rely on these in calculating a fair compensation for E. 
At the date of his view, the investigator recommended that Collingwood should pay E 
£10,000 compensation for its loss of profit. But it took Collingwood a further two months to 
settle the claim. And so I think the same rate should be applied for that further two months. 
So I think its fair and reasonable that Collingwood should pay E a total of £12,500 for its loss 
of profit from the date of the claim to the date of settlement. 
Putting things right
To put things right for E, I require Collingwood Insurance Company Limited to do the 
following:
1. Settle Es claim as agreed, as it has already done.
2. Pay E interest on the settlement at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the 
claim to the date of settlement. 
3. Pay E £12,500 compensation for its loss of profit due to lost income.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Collingwood Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman