DRN-3038583
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S complains that Barclays reneged on its decision to grant a loan 
repayment holiday.
S is represented by its director, Mr D.
What happened
On 5 March 2020, S took out a loan with monthly payments due on the 5th of each month, 
commencing on 5 April 2020. S didnt make repayments on 5 April or 5 May 2020 and Mr D 
called Barclays on 20 May 2020 to request a payment holiday.
Mr D says he was told the holiday was approved, but he later received a default letter from 
Barclays. When he called Barclays to question the default letter, Barclays said the holiday 
hadnt been applied to Ss account, but that it should have been put on from 20 May 2020. 
Mr S was told the matter would be put on hold and that chasing letters would cease until the 
issue was resolved.
Barclays didnt freeze the loan though and later wrote to S calling the loan in, so Mr D 
complained. Barclays issued its final response letter on 19 January 2021. It accepted it had 
made a mistake, but said S wasnt eligible for a repayment holiday at the time he applied, 
because the loan was so new, and because the first two payments had been returned. It 
offered S £100 in compensation for the inconvenience, but didnt agree to write off any 
interest. It later wrote two further final response letters, in which it said it had found no 
evidence it had agreed to freeze interest on the loan.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld 
Ss complaint. She said Barclays should pay S £250 in compensation, and remove any 
adverse information from his credit file between May 2020 and January 2021. She said any 
additional interest above the standard amount charged between May and January should be 
waived, although she was satisfied the standard interest charges should remain.
Barclays didnt agree with everything our investigator said. It said it couldnt trace Mr Ds first 
call, so it couldnt be sure he had been told the repayment holiday was approved. And it 
didnt think it was appropriate for the credit file to be cleansed. It asked for an ombudsman to 
review matters afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Barclays doesnt necessarily accept it agreed to the repayment holiday: 
because theres no call recording, we cant say with certainty what, if anything, S was told 
about the holiday. However, I have to base by decision on what I think is more likely than not 
to have happened. So, Ive looked at all of the evidence both parties submitted to reach an 
outcome on the balance of probabilities. 
When Mr D called Barclays to discuss its first default letter, the call handler put him on hold 
then appeared to be reading through system notes. After he had done so, he returned to Mr 
D and said he could see the payment holiday should have been applied from 20 May 2020. I 
dont know what information he relied on to reach that conclusion, but it seems more likely 
than not to me that he discovered something that showed Mr D had been told a repayment 
holiday had been agreed. Mr Ds behaviour at the time and testimony since was also 
consistent, and he has maintained the same version of events. 
Given the circumstances surrounding the loan, and what Ive said above, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr D was told S could have a repayment holiday on 20 May 2020. And 
while I accept the later call wasnt clear, my impression was that Mr D would have left the 
call under the assumption that proceedings relating to the loan were on hold, pending 
Barclays looking into matters. The call handler concluded by saying nothing would happen 
until this was sorted.
As to interest, I accept what Barclays said in its 2nd and 3rd final response letter: i.e. theres 
nothing to suggest Barclays agreed to waive interest while this was on hold. S was 
contractually obliged to pay interest on the loan at the contract rate, and interest would have 
continued to accrue if Barclays had formally agreed to a repayment holiday. 
So it wouldnt be fair if S got a refund of interest it would have had to pay regardless. With 
that being said, Barclays shouldnt have charged any additional interest as a result of any 
missed payments after 20 May 2020. So, it should refund S any such interest charges it 
applied (if at all).
With regard to Ss credit file, I agree with our investigator that any adverse marks applied as 
a result of these circumstances after 20 May 2020 should be removed. Had S been given 
the correct information, it would have had the opportunity to meet the contractual payments 
that followed. Because it was deprived of that opportunity, Im not persuaded it was fair to 
record adverse data against S. The missed payments from 5 April and 5 May 2020 pre-
dated Barclays error, so Im not asking Barclays to remove data relating to those payments.
Barclays should also pay S £250 in recognition of the inconvenience it experienced as a 
result of having to deal with the fallout of the repayment holiday request. Because this 
complaint is brought by S, a limited company, I cant aware it compensation for any distress 
experienced by its director, Mr D. But Im satisfied £250 represents fair compensation for the 
inconvenience S experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Barclays must:
1. Pay S £250 in compensation;
2. Refund any interest applied as a result of missed payments after 20 May 2020 (if 
any); and
3. Remove any credit file markers against S registered on or after 20 May 2020 that 
relate to the circumstances set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman