DRN-1148208
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs R were sold a MPPI policy in 2010 during a meeting. Although the mortgage was 
in joint names, the MPPI only covered Mrs R. The policy would have provided a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs R was off work sick.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs R was eligible under the policy. Given Mrs R age, 
residence and employment at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she was eligible for the 
policy.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, BoS no longer have all of the documents from the time of the sale. However, from my 
experience of how these policies were sold, the MPPI would have been presented as 
optional and only applied to the account if Mrs R had chosen to take it out. 
The documents that BoS have provided to us support my understanding of how MPPI 
policies were sold by BoS at this time and I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that 
on this particular occasion BoS didnt follow their sales process. For example, Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage offer and this makes it clear that MPPI wasnt compulsory. I also note 
that when Mr and Mrs R borrowed additional funds the year before, they chose not to take 
out MPPI.
So all in all, I think its more likely that in 2010 Mr and Mrs R were aware that MPPI was 
optional and it was only applied to the account because they chose to take it out.BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs R to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI 
was suitable but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. I say this because:
 
Although Mrs R has told us she was entitled to the equivalent of 9 months full sick 
pay (6 months full pay followed by six months half pay) the MPPI would have paid 
out in addition to this and would have been particularly useful when her income 
reduced to half. Repeated claims would have been possible under the policy.
 
Mrs R doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. Mr and Mrs 
Rs representatives have said that Mr R was self-employed at the time of the sale. 
However, as Mr R wasnt covered by the policy, his employment status isnt relevant 
when considering restrictions and exclusions under the policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs R couldnt afford the MPPI.
 
Mr and Mrs R could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs R wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs R this 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman