DRN-3736210
The complaint
Mr Os complaint concerns his Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading account held with 
Trading 212 UK Limited (T212). He says that:
Failures of its system prevented him from partially closing his positions and caused 
him a loss and additional interest expenses. 
A customer adviser tried to influence his decision on what positions to close. 
Funds he deposited didnt reflect on his account, resulting in him being margin called. 
He feels these issues have caused him stress and a financial loss.
 
What happened
Mr O opened his account with T212 in October 2021 and traded regularly until January 
2022. On 5 November 2021, he experienced issues while proposing partial closures of his 
existing positions. He contacted T212 on the same day through the online chat feature and 
spoke with a member of T212s customer service staff. 
Mr O provided screenshots of the issue he was experiencing and further explained that he 
was unable to take partial profits on a long CFD position as the value on the order was 
showing as £0.00. One of the screenshots Mr O provided demonstrated that he was trying 
to sell 60 of his 367 shares held in AMC Entertainment (AMC). But the value beneath the 
quantity was showing as £0.00. Mr O said that this meant he had no idea how much he was 
selling and missed out on taking profits. The customer adviser confirmed that it seemed the 
monetary value was not calculating upon placing the sell order and told Mr O that this was 
definitely not right and escalated the issue. 
Mr O contacted T212 again via the online chat feature later that day. He spoke to a different 
customer adviser and explained that their system wasnt allowing him to take partial profits, 
which was causing him distress. Mr O provided further screenshots to demonstrate the 
issue. The customer adviser explained that the £0.00 below the quantity shows the charges 
for the trade and explained that because Mr O was placing a market sell order to partially 
close an existing position, there is no such charge. 
The customer adviser further suggested that Mr O could calculate the profit based on the 
current price and quantity. But Mr O continued to express his distress regarding this issue 
and asked to speak to a supervisor. The customer adviser then suggested that Mr O should 
be able to liquidate part of his holding in AMC and provided articles which explained how to 
place take profit and stop loss orders, and how to close positions. 
Mr O remained dissatisfied with this explanation and noted that the articles provided showed 
how to close a position in full, rather than partially, and reiterated his request to speak to a 
supervisor. A senior staff member then joined the chat to confirm that his complaint had 
been escalated and he would receive a confirmation email within several business days.  
During this conversation on 5 November 2021, Mr O also raised his concern that the funds 
hed deposited that week hadnt reflected on his account. The customer adviser explained 
that the funds should arrive within three business days. Mr O explained that he deposited the 
funds into his invest account and when they reflected, he transferred them to his 
CFD account, but there was a delay in the funds showing. The customer adviser confirmed 
the funds were successfully transferred into his CFD account. 
T212 issued a final response to Mr O on 29 December 2021. It acknowledged his frustration 
and reliance on the order value calculation to make his trading decision. As a result, it 
offered him a goodwill gesture of £75. Mr O initially accepted this offer, but later declined, 
saying that he couldnt view the attachment, so was unaware of the amount itd offered. 
He asked for the complaint to be re-opened in January 2022 as he was still experiencing 
issues with the platform, causing him financial loss and distress. T212 re-opened his 
complaint and issued a second final response on 8 March 2022. This response reiterated its 
initial findings and noted that it had requested additional information from Mr O, but didnt 
receive his response. It added a description of the difference between their two trading 
modes, aggregating and hedging mode, and explained that aggregating mode only allows 
one position to be open in a particular instrument. It noted that it was Mr Os responsibility to 
determine which mode is set, as per his personal preferences. 
Mr O remained dissatisfied with the outcome of his complaint and subsequently raised his 
complaint with our service. He raised some additional complaints points, which included:
The confirm button being greyed out when trying to place a limit sell order.
He felt pressured by the customer service staff member to close a position that he 
wished to keep open. 
He paid additional interest because he had to keep the positions open while his 
complaint was being investigated.
In response to the complaint made to our service, our investigator didnt think that T212 
needed to take any further action. In brief, he said:
The information provided by the first customer adviser Mr O spoke to was incorrect. 
But the second customer adviser he spoke to on the same day provided accurate 
information, although he felt it could have been explained more clearly. 
The investigator explained that the value on the proposed order that Mr O was 
referring to didnt represent the profit or loss to be realised by the partial sale. Rather, 
it represented the margin requirement and wasnt applicable when placing an order 
to partially close an existing position. And with reference to the screenshot of Mr Os 
proposed order in AMC, he explained that as he was proposing a partial sell order to 
reduce an existing long position, this wouldnt require additional margin to place the 
order. So, the value was shown as £0.00. The investigator also demonstrated by 
way of an example how Mr O could calculate the profit to be realised by the proposed 
order. He concluded that this wasnt the result of an error or failure of T212s platform 
and didnt prevent Mr O from submitting the partial market sell order. 
The confirm button was greyed out on Mr Os proposed limit sell order because the 
order was incomplete as he hadnt specified a limit price. He concluded that this 
wasnt a result of an error or failure of T212s platform.  
The funds Mr O deposited had reflected on his account by 7 November 2021. And 
the margin closures on his account occurred between 10 November 2021 and 6 
January 2022. Therefore, the alleged delay in these funds reflecting didnt cause the 
margin closures. This is because they reflected three days prior to the margin 
closures which first occurred on 10 November 2021. 
The customer adviser Mr O spoke to on 5 November 2021 suggested that as he had 
a profitable position in AMC, he should be able to set up a limit order to liquidate part of the holding. The investigator emphasised that the customer adviser only 
suggested that Mr O liquidate part of his AMC holding, which is what Mr O was 
intending to do. The investigator concluded that the customer advisers suggestion 
was in line with the intention that Mr O had expressed earlier in the conversation, 
which was to take partial profits on his position in AMC. 
Mr O shouldve been able to place his orders without the value showing. This is 
because the value represented the margin requirement and isnt applicable when 
partially closing open positions. Therefore, the investigator didnt think that T212 
should be held responsible for the additional interest expense Mr O incurred from 
keeping his positions open. 
Mr O didnt accept the investigators view and provided further submissions in support of his 
case. He noted that his friend who was with him at the time was able to place the same limit 
sell order without experiencing the issue Mr O had experienced. 
However, this didnt persuade the investigator to alter his position, as he felt that the 
additional screenshot provided wasnt relevant to Mr Os current complaint, as it related to a 
separate issue  temporary suspension of trading in another CFD instrument. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr Os statement that his friend didnt experience the same 
issues. But he noted that his friend may have completed the limit sell order by specifying the 
limit price, which Mr O had omitted from his order. The investigator also suggested that Mr O 
try to replicate the same orders on T212s practice mode to verify his findings. 
However, Mr O remained dissatisfied and reiterated that he felt his ability to trade without 
bias was negatively affected as he was given suggestions on what to trade. In addition, he 
reiterated that he was initially told that there was an error on the system.  
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view, the matter has been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I understand that Mr O feels strongly about his complaint and that the matter caused him 
distress. However, I note that he hasnt disputed all the investigators findings. Rather, it 
seems Mr Os primary concerns are that he felt his ability to trade without bias was impacted 
as he was given suggestions on what to trade. And that he was initially told that there was 
an error on the system. 
I appreciate that the concerns Mr O has raised above are important to him, so Id like to 
address these in more detail. And although I am not addressing all his complaint points with 
the same level of detail, Id like to reassure Mr O that Ive read all his comments carefully as 
part of my consideration of the matter. And I trust that he wont take it as a discourtesy that 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, being the primary concerns 
that Mr O has raised with the investigator. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. Rather, its to set out my 
conclusions and the reasons for reaching them. Turning to Mr Os primary concerns, I know 
that hes unhappy that the first customer adviser he spoke to on 5 November 2021 told him that thered been an error. I can appreciate that this may have caused him concern and 
possibly contributed to his distress. However, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator 
in that Mr O was provided with the correct information later the same day and, therefore, 
without unreasonable delay. In addition, I think T212s offer of an apology and goodwill 
gesture of £75 is sufficient to compensate him for this. 
Regarding Mr Os concerns that he was given suggestions that affected his ability to trade 
without bias, having reviewed the chat transcript Ive come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator. The customer adviser provided only factual information about how to place the 
various order types available because it was evident that Mr O was having difficulty placing 
an order. The customer adviser also suggested that Mr O could partially liquidate his AMC 
position by placing a limit sell order. It wasnt suggested that Mr O liquidate his AMC holding 
in full.
Its worth explaining that T212s platform offers two trading modes  aggregating mode and 
hedging mode. And the investigator previously confirmed that Mr O mostly used the 
aggregating mode. When trading in aggregating mode, Mr O was able to reduce his long 
position by placing a limit sell order. In contrast, a limit sell order wouldnt achieve the same 
result in hedging mode, as this would result in him having a long position as well as a short 
position alongside it. However, as Mr O mostly used aggregating mode, the suggestion to 
place a limit sell order to partially close his long position was relevant and ultimately in line 
with what Mr O had explained he was trying to achieve  to take partial profits on his holding 
in AMC. 
That said, I acknowledge that the customer adviser provided links to articles which outlined 
how to place take profit and stop loss orders, as well as how to close positions. I appreciate 
that these articles didnt explain how to partially close a position. However, I think the 
customer adviser provided sufficient explanations and guidance on how Mr O could partially 
close his position. And although the articles he shared only explained how to close a position 
in full, he didnt make any statements that could reasonably have affected Mr Os ability to 
trade without bias. Im satisfied the customer adviser was acting in good faith in trying to help 
Mr O.
In summary, I dont think the difficulties Mr O experienced were a result of failures of T212s 
system. And although he received incorrect information at first, he was then provided with an 
accurate explanation the same day, of how to place the partial orders as he intended. In 
addition, Mr O wasnt given suggestions to trade, other than guidance on how to place the 
partial sell orders that he was having difficulty executing. As such, I find that T212 dont need 
to do anything beyond paying Mr O the goodwill gesture of £75 previously offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman