DRN-2877162
The complaint
Ms M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Ms M between 
November 2020 and January 2021. Ms Ms lending history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment*
1 13/11/2020 04/12/2020 6 £200.00 £50.47
2 03/12/2020 Outstanding 6 £300.00 £153.19
3 07/12/2020 Outstanding 6 £390.00 £234.34
4 27/12/2020 Outstanding 6 £190.00 £302.52
5 24/01/2021 Outstanding 6 £140.00 £345.00
*Where there were existing loans outstanding, Ive considered repayments on all outstanding 
loans at the time each new loan was taken. This has given me the highest repayment 
section in the table.
Lending Stream agreed that it shouldnt have provided loan five and offered redress for this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ms complaint in part and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given. Lending Stream agreed and offered redress for this. But Ms M disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Ms Ms circumstances and I can understand that she is 
experiencing financial difficulties. Ms M said she wasnt in employment when she took out 
these loans. But being employed isnt a requirement to obtain a short-term loan. And I cant 
see that she told Lending Stream about her particular health circumstances at the time. So I 
cant reasonably hold it responsible for not responding to these concerns. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Lending Stream has already made an offer for loan five which is in keeping with what Id 
require if I thought the loan shouldnt have been given. So Ill not consider that loan here.  
Lending Stream asked Ms M for information about her income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit checks. Ms M told Lending Stream that her monthly income was between £1,320 
and £1,750. She said her monthly outgoings ranged between £425 and £925. And she said 
she had outstanding credit commitments of between £25 and £50 a month. I cant see that 
Lending Streams credit checks found anything untoward that should have prompted further 
checks. 
For loans one to three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time and her history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Ms M provided or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Ms M was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Lending Stream to have 
provided loans one to three. 
I accept that Ms Ms actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. And Ms Ms actual financial 
position might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  
had been obtained. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Ms M, I dont think it had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Ms M. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to take further steps to 
verify the information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Lending Stream carried out reasonable checks 
even though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Ms Ms actual 
financial position. 
Lending Stream relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Ms Ms declared income, I think that this wasnt 
unreasonable. 
But, for loan four, I think the amount Ms M had to repay each month on her outstanding 
loans should have prompted Lending Stream to verify what she had told it and so check that 
she could sustainably make her repayments. It could, for example, have asked to see her 
bank statements. 
And, as our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan four would most likely have 
shown that Ms M was having problems managing her money:
Ms M had outstanding loans with two other short-term loan providers as well as her two 
loans with Lending Stream.
Ms M was no longer in employment and was receiving benefits which would mean that 
her finances would be tight. 
So I think that if Lending Stream had made sufficient and proportionate checks for loan four, 
it would have found that Ms M would be unable to sustainably repay this loan or any 
subsequent loans. So I think it was wrong for Lending Stream to have provided loan four. 
Ms M has an outstanding balance she owes Lending Stream. I think its for Lending Stream 
to respond positively and sympathetically to her financial difficulties and in making her 
repayments.
 Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Ms M from loan four, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if they had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that 
a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
To put things right for Ms M, I require lending Stream to do the following, as its already 
agreed to do:
refund all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Ms Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint in part. I 
require Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman