DRN-4181573
The complaint
Mrs O and Mr O have complained about the service received under their travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Euroins AD.
Any reference in this decision to Euroins AD includes its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
here as they arent in dispute. In summary Mrs O and Mr Os son suffered an allergic 
reaction on holiday and they attempted to contact the insurers emergency assistance team. 
Euroins had an issue with its telecommunications system which meant that Mrs O and Mr O 
werent able to get through. 
Our investigator thought that this would have caused distress and recommended that 
Euroins pay £100 in compensation. Mrs O and Mr O didnt accept this  they said that their 
holiday had been destroyed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I accept that it would have been distressing for Mrs O and Mr O when they were 
unable to get through on the insurers emergency assistance line. Euroins have 
apologised and explained that it was experiencing an issue with its communications 
system which resulted in some calls not being connected to its overflow service when 
all its case managers were engaged. However given that Mrs O and Mr O were 
abroad, and were calling for assistance, I find that in addition to the apology 
compensation is due for the distress and frustration caused to them.
In deciding the level of compensation due I have considered the impact on Mrs O 
and Mr O. Had they got through to the assistance line it wouldnt have been able to 
prescribe medication or offer immediate assistance over the phone. There is no 
evidence that their son needed to be admitted to hospital. I note that they treated 
their sons allergic reaction with over-the-counter anti histamine and Calpol. I 
recognise that Mrs O and Mr O feel that their holiday, which cost them a large sum of 
money, was ruined. But I dont find that Euroins are liable to refund the cost of their 
holiday due to this telecommunications issue. In all the circumstances I find that £100 
is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
I accept too that they were without their luggage which contained medications. But in 
this decision, Im considering only the complaint that they werent able to access 
emergency assistance. Should Mrs O and Mr O wish to recover out of pocket 
expenses they may be able to do so and can contact the insurer in order to claim.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Euroins AD to pay Mrs O and Mr O 
£100 in compensation (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman