DRN-2776566
The complaint
 Mrs B and Mr S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited misplaced a deed of postponement 
sent to it by another potential lender. They say this is a breach of data protection regulations. 
Theyre also unhappy with the service they received generally and how Shawbrook handled 
their complaint.
 
What happened
  The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, and are not in dispute. All Im 
required to do here is decide what level of compensation is fair in all the circumstances. So 
instead of repeating the details here, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Matters of data protection generally are better dealt with by the Information Commissioners 
Office. Well only consider a data protection issue if is linked to a possible financial loss. 
Theres no financial loss here; the case is solely about the time, trouble and upset Mrs B and 
Mr S were put to by Shawbrook mis-placing the first deed of postponement. Our investigator 
thought £200 was fair; Shawbrook thinks thats too high and that the £100 it offered 
previously is more appropriate. Mrs B and Mr S think £200 is too low but havent said what 
they think is more appropriate.
Having taken account of everything thats been said and provided, Ive decided that £200 is 
fair in all the circumstances. Its consistent with the general level of award weve made in 
broadly similar circumstances previously, and in my view it properly and proportionately 
reflects what did happen (which was a delay and a series of phone conversations), as 
distinct from what could have happened.
I make that latter point to address the understandable concerns Mrs B and Mr S have about 
the potential risk of their personal information falling into the wrong hands. If they accept my 
final decision, both parties will be bound by it in relation to this complaint. But if Mrs B and/or 
Mr S were to suffer financial loss in the future, and had grounds to suspect that loss might 
have arisen from Shawbrooks handling of their personal information, they could make a 
fresh complaint at that time.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Mrs B and Mr S £200. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman