DRN-1809210
The complaint
Mr D complains that Experian Limited passed his personal details to third party businesses 
who contacted him without his consent. 
Mr D also complains that his credit score has been unfairly reduced after he made a 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr D says that on 10 August 2019 he checked his Experian file after logging in online. A 
short time later, Mr D started to receive contact from third party businesses offering credit. 
Mr D has advised that for several weeks he was inundated with calls, letters and text 
messages about loans. 
On 13 August 2019 Mr D contacted Experian and complained. Experian responded and said 
the contact Mr D had received may have been due to using its comparison quotation service. 
Experian said any details that had been passed to third party businesses were in line with 
the privacy policy Mr D accepted when opening his account. 
Mr D has told us that shortly after he complained his credit score started to drop and has 
continued to do so. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
Experian had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr D 
asked to appeal and said he was sure Experian had passed his details to other businesses 
without his consent. Mr D remains concerned that his complaints have led to his credit score 
going down. As Mr D didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has raised various issues so Ill look at each in turn. Ill start with what happened on 
10 August 2019 when Mr D logged into his Experian account online. Mr D says he logged in 
to check the information available and didnt complete a comparison quotation. But Experian 
says that Mr D has a free account which only provides his credit score, not a copy of the 
credit report itself. Experian says Mr D completed a comparison quotation and a soft credit 
search was carried out. 
I understand Mr D doesnt recall completing a comparison quotation, but Experian has sent 
in systems evidence to show what he did online when he logged in on 10 August 2019. The 
systems evidence Ive seen is clear in showing that Mr D did complete a comparison 
quotation on 10 August 2019. 
A comparison quotation uses a soft credit search to check whether there are suitable 
businesses available to provide a particular type of credit. A soft credit search is visible to 
the consumer and Experian, but isnt reported externally on the credit file. That means that 
whilst a credit search was completed on 10 August 2019, it was a soft search and wasnt 
visible to any other parties. A soft credit search does not lead to a reduction in someones 
credit score. So, whilst I agree a soft credit search was completed, the information Ive seen 
shows it didnt lead to Mr Ds credit score going down. 
Experian says that Mr D accepted its terms and conditions when he signed up to use its free 
service. The privacy policy forms part of the terms and Im satisfied Mr D had to accept it in 
order to gain access to his Experian account. The privacy policy says:
When you use our comparison service to search for products, the information you provide is 
used to retrieve information about products relevant to your search and create a table which 
allows you to compare them.
Where eligibility ratings are available, the information you provide (including personal 
information such as your name and address) and your current historical credit information 
from Experianis also used to help understand whether you are likely to be accepted based 
on the lenders criteria. 
In some circumstances, we will share that information with brokers, aggregators, insurers, 
lenders and providers of credit, insurance and other financial products themselves (as 
described in the section Who we share your personal information with).
Under the section Who we share your personal information with Experians privacy policy 
says: 
In some circumstances, we will share credit report information and your personal information 
(such as name and address) with brokers, lenders and providers of credit and financial 
products themselves for purposes that may include: 
-verifying eligibility for products;
-verifying suitability of products;
-contacting you regarding credit and financial products.
I understand Mr D was shocked when he started to receive contact from third party 
businesses after he used Experians online service. But to open his Experian account he had 
to accept the terms and conditions including its privacy policy. As Ive set out above, the 
privacy policy allows Experian to pass Mr Ds details to third party businesses when using 
the comparison quotation service online. 
Whilst I note Mr Ds concerns, Im satisfied the evidence shows he did complete a 
comparison quotation on 10 August 2019 and that the privacy policy he accepted when he 
opened his Experian account allowed it to pass his details onto third party businesses.
Mr D says that his credit score dropped after he complained. I can see that in the months 
that followed, Mr Ds credit score did go down. But I havent seen any evidence that supports 
Mr Ds concern that his complaint led to his credit score reducing. 
Experian has explained that Mr Ds credit score went down because of hard searches 
completed by prospective lenders and pointed out that he also opened new credit 
commitments. Experians credit file shows that Mr D has some adverse credit as well. Whilst I understand the timing of the score going down caused Mr D concerns, Im satisfied the 
reduction wasnt related to the complaint raised. 
Mr D contacted us in May 2020 to say his credit score had reduced further. If Mr D is 
concerned that his credit score doesnt accurately reflect the information on his credit file, he 
can obtain a free copy of his credit report from Experian. If Mr D finds the information on his 
credit report is wrong, he can raise a dispute with Experian to address it. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr D as I can see how strongly he feels. But I havent been 
persuaded that Experian made a mistake or treated him unfairly. Mr D had to accept 
Experians privacy policy when he signed up to its account. The privacy policy allows 
Experian to share information when a comparison quotation is carried out. There is clear 
systems evidence to show Mr D did log into his Experian account on 10 August 2019 and 
competed a comparison quotation. Im satisfied that Experian was allowed to share Mr Ds 
details with third party businesses. 
I can understand why Mr D is concerned that his complaint impacted his credit score but I 
havent seen any evidence to support this. Im satisfied that the drop to his credit score in the 
months after he complained was due to changes in the information reported, not his 
complaint. As I havent found anything to show Experian made a mistake and Im satisfied it 
dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman