DRN-2287598
The complaint
Mr M complains that Studio Retail Limited isnt calculating the balance on his account 
correctly and that his balance is increasing when it shouldnt be.
What happened
Mr M is unhappy as he feels the balance on his account with Studio isnt being calculated 
correctly. He says hes been making payments each month and can see these reducing the 
balance. But the balance then increases again later in the month, which he feels is incorrect 
and means his balance is higher than it should be. 
Studio investigated Mr Ms complaint but said the balance on his account was being 
calculated correctly. It said Mr M wasnt paying off his full outstanding balance each month 
and so interest was being charged on the account, which is why his balance wasnt going 
down as much as he thought it should. Mr M wasnt satisfied with Studios response, so 
referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they thought Studio had been 
calculating the balance on Mr Ms account correctly. So they didnt ask Studio to do anything 
further. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has a credit account with Studio, which means he can order items from them and then 
pay back the cost of the items over a number of months  rather than having to pay the full 
cost immediately. But the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account say that Studio will charge 
interest on any unpaid balance.
This is how Mr Ms account has worked since it was opened. Mr M made a number of 
purchases when he first opened the account in June 2019, but he paid off the full 
outstanding balance and so no interest was charged on his first two monthly statements. 
Mr M then made more purchases but started paying off less than the full outstanding 
balance each month, and so interest was charged on his account from the September 2019 
statement onwards.
As Mr M isnt paying off the full outstanding balance each month, interest is being charged. 
And so the balance of his account will be affected by both the payments hes making and the 
interest that is being charged. The balance will decrease by the amount of the payments he 
makes. But it will also increase by the amount of the interest that is charged.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account also say that the interest charged each month is 
added to the account on the statement date.
Mr M is unhappy as he sees the balance on his account reduce when he makes a payment, 
but then he sees the balance increase again later in the month. But this is due to the timing 
of when he is checking the account.
When Mr M checks his account after he makes a payment, the interest for the month has not 
yet been added. So the balance of his account will reduce by the full amount of the payment 
he has just made. But then later in the month, on the statement date when his monthly 
statement is produced, the interest for the month is added. And so the balance will appear to 
increase again. But, over the full month, the balance will have increased by the amount of 
interest charged and decreased by the amount of the payment Mr M has made  which is 
correct.
Ive checked the statements for Mr Ms account and Im satisfied that this is how the balance 
of his account is being calculated. And Im satisfied the balance of his account is correct, 
taking into account both the payments hes been making and the interest that has been 
charged.
Due to an error with Studios systems, no interest was charged on Mr Ms account on his 
September 2020 statement. This was then corrected, so the interest that should have been 
charged on the September 2020 statement was charged on the October 2020 statement 
instead  along with the interest that would normally have been charged on the October 
2020 statement.
This meant that the interest charged on the October 2020 statement was higher than it 
would normally have been, and was higher than the minimum payment for that month. But 
the interest was only higher for that one month, and this was only to correct the previous 
error where no interest was charged on the September 2020 statement. So I dont think 
Mr M has lost out as a result of this.
Overall, Im satisfied the balance on Mr Ms account has been calculated correctly. So I dont 
think Studio needs to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman