DRN-1724197
Complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a secured loan. Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
this policy to them. 
Background
Mr and Mrs F took out a long-term (20 years) secured loan for £11,000 in 1994. At the same 
time they bought a PPI policy to protect their loan repayments in the event of Mr F becoming 
unable to work or losing his job. Mrs F wasnt covered on the policy.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr and Mrs F 
disagreed with this and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mr and Mrs F now honestly and 
genuinely feel the PPI was mis-sold alongside their secured loan. And unfortunately, weve 
got nothing left to refer to by way on an application form or credit agreement although given 
this was all 26 years ago, this isnt unusual, or indeed unreasonable.
Nevertheless, weve seen many cases with similar characteristics to this complaint and 
spoken at length to Halifax about these types of loans. As a consequence we know quite a 
bit about how they were generally sold. We know, for example, that consumers normally met 
with a branch advisor to discuss their requirements. And we know that as a result of that 
discussion, a credit agreement was produced with all the relevant details on it. The 
consumer was then invited to check and sign the agreement to complete the process.
Although we dont have Mr and Mrs Fs actual agreement, the type of agreement Ive seen 
many times before had a section on it about PPI. There were two boxes available on the 
form to either say yes or no to having a PPI with the loan. For it to be added, the yes box 
would need to be ticked. So Im afraid my overwhelming experience of these particular 
Halifax loans from that time period is that consumers like Mr and Mrs F were presented with 
a choice. I completely accept they might not remember things that way now, but I think its 
much more likely they agreed to have it and Mr F would have been insured as the first 
named on the loan agreement.
I also know Halifaxs sales processes usually meant that these types of sales were advised 
sales. This means the PPI was recommended to them and so Halifax had a duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Fs needs. Mr and Mrs F said the PPI wasnt suitable, because they didnt need it. But Im afraid I think it did meet the suitability criteria 
we look for.
I think this because this was a long-term loan secured against their home. So the 
consequences of not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. I accept Mr 
F says he already had some protection from sickness at work and I agree it would have 
been relatively generous. But in my view, this does not make the policy unsuitable.
This is because the unemployment and sickness protection in the policy lasted much longer 
than what Mr F had in place with his job, and at around £12 per month I dont think this 
would have been unaffordable. In the event of a successful claim, the policy could have 
covered the loan repayments for 1 year for unemployment  and for 5 years in the event of 
sickness. This was in addition to any other means they had in place. So I think the policy 
was suitable.
I obviously cant say Mr and Mrs F would have been told everything they should have been 
told. But again, my experience is that the costs of both the loan and PPI were shown on the 
agreement and on letters they were sent. So I think they knew the costs and who was 
covered. 
To uphold this case Id need to think Mr and Mrs F were made to buy the policy back in 
1994, or that it wasnt suitable for them. I simply dont have that evidence. I think its more 
likely they agreed to the policy at the time. 
Im very sorry to disappoint them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
 
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman