DRN-4370968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as The Woolwich, about a 
timeshare membership they bought.
What happened
In 2000, Mr and Mrs B took out a timeshare membership from a timeshare provider (the 
Supplier), through which they were able to stay in accommodation overseas every year. 
The membership cost £7,970 and the agreement said that there was a deposit payment of 
£1,770 made using a card and the balance of £6,200 was due afterwards. Mr and Mrs B 
paid the Supplier £6,200 using a cheque from the Woolwich and say they used a credit card 
for the deposit.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs B made a claim to the Woolwich with the help of a professional 
representative (PR).1 PR said that the timeshare membership had been mis-sold and that 
the Woolwich were responsible for the Suppliers misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract. PR didnt explain why it said the Woolwich could be held legally responsible.2
The Woolwich responded to Mr and Mrs B and said that it was unable to look into the claim 
as the sale took place 19 years before the claim was made, so it had no way of recovering 
any funds. Unhappy with what the Woolwich said, Mr and Mrs B asked our service to 
consider their complaint that the Woolwich hadnt done enough to get their money back.
One of our investigators considered everything and said they didnt think the Woolwich 
needed to do anything further to settle the complaint. They said that the claim PR made 
appeared to be a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA), but there wasnt 
enough evidence that Mr and Mrs B had paid the Supplier using credit provided by the 
Woolwich. He also considered whether the Woolwich should have done more to try to 
recover any monies paid any other way, but thought the length of time taken to make a claim 
was too long. Mr and Mrs B asked for the complaint to be considered again by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not going to tell the Woolwich to do anything further.
Under the CCA, a lender can be held legally responsible for putting right problems when 
products or services were paid for using credit. Mr and Mrs B have said that the Supplier 
misrepresented the nature of the timeshare to them and breached its agreement too. This is 
the sort of thing the Woolwich could be responsible to answer if it was shown that they 
1 Mr and Mrs B are no longer represented by PR
2 PR did point to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008, but didnt explain 
how they could apply to Mr and Mrs Bs purchase given that it happened eight years before the 
Regulations came into force
provided credit to Mr and Mrs B when making their purchase.
On the timeshare agreement I can see that a card was used to pay the deposit, but its not 
clear whether this was a credit or a debit card. Mr and Mrs B say they used a credit card, 
but theyve been unable to provide anything that shows that, such as a card statement or 
receipt. The Woolwich dont have any records that go that far back either. For the avoidance 
of doubt, theres no requirement for businesses to hold records indefinitely, so Im not 
surprised they cant say if their card was used in 2000. 
As I cant say its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B used a credit card to make their 
purchase from the Supplier and that the card was provided by the Woolwich, I cant say that 
the CCA applied to their claims. It follows, I dont think the Woolwich needs to answer any 
claim for misrepresentation, breach of contract or any other claim to which the CCA may 
apply.
Ive also thought about anything that the Woolwich could have done to recover money paid 
using either a credit card or cheque. There are schemes in place through which monies paid 
can be reclaimed. But those only apply within certain time limits and can be defended by the 
receiving party. In this case, given the length of time between Mr and Mrs B paying the 
Supplier and them saying something had gone wrong, I dont think there was any realistic 
prospect of the Woolwich recovering anything even if it tried to. So I cant say it has done 
anything wrong in saying it wasnt able to recover any funds paid.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as The 
Woolwich.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman