DRN-4018195
The complaint
Mr D and Ms B have complained about a mortgage rate switch they did online with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc in May 2022. They say they didnt get the rate Mr D had applied for due 
to issues with the online system when Ms B went in to accept the rate; instead, they ended 
up with a higher interest rate product.
What happened
Mr D and Ms B had a mortgage with HSBC. As the preferential rate product on part of their 
mortgage was coming to an end, they were invited to apply for a new rate for that part.
Mr D and Ms B chose to apply online, and on 7 May 2022 Mr D applied for a 2.24% fixed 
rate. An offer was issued and Mr D accepted that, all on the same day. The offer said it was 
valid until 20 May and Ms B needed to go online before that date to also accept it for it to be 
put in force.
On 19 May Mr D called HSBC as Ms B was unable to access the HSBC online system to 
accept the rate. The HSBC call handler resolved the query, and ended by telling Ms B that 
she can just follow the instructions to accept the rate switch. Later that day Ms B went online 
but, rather than accepting the existing rate switch application, it was cancelled. Ms B instead 
applied for a new rate, which was fixed at 2.54%.
Mr D called HSBC on 20 May to query matters, and he raised a complaint about what had 
happened. On 26 May Mr D accepted the higher rate, and that took effect from 1 July when 
the previous preferential rate ended.
HSBC responded to the complaint on 21 June. It didnt uphold it, saying the initial application 
was cancelled upon request (that is, by Mr D and Ms B rather than by HSBC). It also said 
there were no reported system issues at the time that would have led to the application 
being cancelled.
Mr D and Ms B didnt agree and referred the complaint to us. In their complaint form Mr D 
said that when Ms B logged in on 19 May it didnt allow her to accept the offer, only allowing 
a completely different rate to be applied for. They said that at no point had they seen a 
button that said cancellation, nor were they aware theyd cancelled the initial application.
Once our investigator had screen shots showing what Ms B would have seen when she went 
in as the second party, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there would 
have been a pop up box that gave Ms B the option to either continue with the existing 
application (that Mr D had started), or to start a fresh application herself. As she clicked to 
start a fresh application, the original application was cancelled and as that rate had 
subsequently been withdrawn it was no longer available to be selected by Ms B.
Ms D and Ms B didnt accept our investigators findings and so it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
But Id firstly like to assure Mr D and Ms B that Ive read and considered everything theyve 
told us. Im aware Ive summarised their complaint in less detail than they have used, but this 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. If I dont comment on any specific point its 
not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me to 
reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Were not the regulator, that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We dont 
have the power to order wider changes be made in terms of HSBCs online rate change 
process. Our role is to look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual 
complaint.
Im satisfied the screenshots HSBC has provided represent what Mr D and then Ms B would 
have seen whilst they were completing this process.
Mr D went through the process to select the rate he was interested in. A mortgage offer was 
issued, and he accepted that. All that needed to be done was for Ms B to go online and also 
accept the rate. The issues relating to Ms B being able to access the online process were 
resolved in the phone call of 19 November, and the call handler said, once that was 
resolved, You just follow the instructions to accept the rate switch that he is trying to do.
HSBC has provided us with a screenshot to show the pop up that would have appeared 
when Ms B accessed the site. That was a box with a large black and yellow exclamation 
mark and the bold typed statement You have an existing application to switch the rate on 
this loan.
Beneath that heading it said:
If you wish to continue with the existing application please select
View and continue with an outstanding application [this was a red hyperlink]
Alternatively, if you wish to continue with your new rate switch application, please select 
Continue with new application. The existing application to switch the rate on this loan will 
be treated as having been withdrawn by you once you have selected Apply at a later 
point.
Mr D and Ms B have argued both that they didnt see the pop up, and also that the pop up 
wasnt clear, so Ill deal with both points.
Mr D and Ms B have said Nowhere on the pop-up is there any suggestion that clicking on 
the new application will cancel any previous application but I dont agree. The pop up said 
Alternatively, if you wish to continue with your new rate switch application, please select 
Continue with new application. The existing application to switch the rate on this loan will be 
treated as having been withdrawn by you once you have selected Apply at a later point.
The pop up couldnt just be closed (by clicking an X for example), and matters couldnt 
proceed without it popping up, as Ms B had to select one of the options  either continue with the outstanding application, or with a new one. Having considered everything I think it is 
more likely than not that the pop up appeared as it should have done, and Ms B selected to 
continue with a new rate application. If Ms B didnt read the full message before clicking on 
an option, I cant hold HSBC liable for that. However even if Ms B didnt see that pop up, the 
complaint doesnt turn on that. Ill explain.
The Your mortgage summary screen summarised what had been applied for (the rate, 
term, fees etc) and said By selecting Apply any outstanding application to switch this 
mortgage product (including where we have issued a Mortgage Rate Switching Offer) will be 
treated as having been withdrawn by you.
It wasnt just one click on the pop up that cancelled the application, instead it only happened 
after Ms B had clicked on the pop up, selected a new rate, was shown a screen with a 
summary of the new rate and the above warning, and then clicked Apply. So, even if Ms B 
didnt see the pop up (which Im not persuaded by), the original application wasnt cancelled 
until after shed gone through all those stages. The previous rate switch application wasnt 
cancelled when Ms B clicked on continue with new on the pop up; it was only cancelled 
later in the process. 
Whilst Mr D and Ms B do not recall that being the application process they followed for Ms B, 
Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities. Ultimately, what that test means for Mr D and 
Ms B is that, as the party bringing the complaint, it falls to them to present a case that is 
more likely than HSBCs case; not just as likely. Having considered what both sides have 
said I dont find Mr D and Ms Bs arguments to be any more than just as likely.
Mr D and Ms B have commented on the fact our investigator didnt mention a call of 20 May 
as part of their assessment. As this call happened after the event in question it has no 
bearing on the outcome of this complaint, as by then Ms B had already cancelled the original 
application and as the original rate Mr D had selected had been withdrawn from sale, it was 
no longer available to be selected.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman