DRN-1504245
 
The complaint
Mrs M has complained to us about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) she 
bought from Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey, in December 2004. 
Background
Mrs M says the PPI was sold to her without her knowledge and it wasnt explained to her. 
The policy cost £24.29 per month and paid out £403 in the event of a claim.
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with this 
so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Ive seen that Mrs M most likely bought the PPI at a meeting in a branch of Santander. 
Ive also seen that Santander accepts it made a recommendation that she should take 
out the PPI. That means it needed to ensure that the cover was suitable for her situation 
but also that the information it gave her was clear and not misleading. 
Ive seen some documents from the sale, including a letter confirming that the policy had 
been set up and enclosing a policy document that would have been sent to her 
immediately following the sale. The letter went on to explain how much it would cost and 
that the costs would be deducted monthly from her bank account for the PPI. This letter 
shows that Mrs M had completed a separate PPI application form and provided her bank 
account details for the monthly premiums to be taken. Unfortunately, Santander no longer 
has a copy of the application form. But this type of process is what I would have expected 
to happen for Santander PPI cover taken out at this time. 
So whilst I accept Mrs M doesnt remember all this now, I think its likely that she had a 
discussion about taking PPI with Santanders representative and would have certainly been 
aware that shed agreed to take cover, not least given that she would have had to 
specifically set up a direct debit to arrange for the monthly premiums to be paid to the 
insurer. 
Santander also needed to check that Mrs M was eligible for the cover and not caught by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Ive seen that Mrs M 
had some sickness protection in place from her employer, amounting to 6 months at full 
pay followed by 6 months at half pay. But this doesnt necessarily make the PPI of no 
use. Mrs Ms mortgage was secured against her home and so the consequences of not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. In the event of a successful 
claim, the PPI would have helped pay the mortgage for up to12 months. This would have 
been in addition to any other means Mrs M may have had, such as savings. And whilst 
Mrs M has also told  us that her parents would have helped out, the offer of family help is 
something that is good to have but cant always be guaranteed as circumstances can 
easily change. So from what Ive seen the PPI would have been suitable for Mrs Ms 
situation at the time.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I 
obviously cant confirm what would have been said at the meeting and its possible 
Santander could have done a better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen, I think 
she would have known about the cost. And theres no suggestion that it was unaffordable 
for her. 
So overall, I think Mrs M probably had enough information on which to make an informed 
choice about what she wanted to do and decided to go ahead and take out the policy. 
Id like to assure Mrs M that Ive also considered the information she gave us following 
our adjudicators view of her complaint, but unfortunately it doesnt alter my finding. Im 
sorry to have to disappoint her on this occasion.
It follows that I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and so Santander UK 
Plc doesnt need to do anything more to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman