DRN-4049187
The complaint
Mrs J complained that part of her claim wasnt covered under her home insurance / home 
emergency policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J noticed a leak in her property, so she made a claim under her policy. RSA arranged 
for a plumber to attend to fix the leak. However, after two visits, the plumber informed Mrs J 
that the leak couldnt be fixed as the leak couldnt be accessed (the leak was on a water pipe 
that ran within the wall).
The claim for repairing the leak was made through the home emergency section of her 
policy. RSA advised Mrs J she would have to claim on the buildings section of her policy to 
claim for the costs of the trace and access (i.e., for tracing where the leak was coming from 
and repairing any damage caused by that work).
In the end, Mrs J decided to hire her own contractor who found the leak and repaired it. She 
thinks all the work shouldve been covered under the home emergency section of her policy, 
which covered costs up to £1,500 and didnt require Mrs J to pay any excess. In its final 
response, RSA said Mrs J can still make a claim for the damage caused by the trace and 
access but said this would be subject to an excess payment under the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the home emergency 
section of the policy stated that trace and access costs were excluded from this part of the 
policy, so he decided that RSA should reimburse the costs Mrs J has incurred for trace and 
access works and repairing the leak. RSA disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 9 March 2023. I said:
I can see there hasnt been a dispute over whether there was an insured event. I think its 
clear RSA has accepted there was an escape of water. So, I havent felt the need to 
consider this.
Mrs J wants RSA to reimburse the costs shes incurred, and she doesnt want to pay an 
excess. So, I have looked to see if this is a reasonable request based on what the terms and 
conditions allow.
I have considered the home emergency section of the policy. I can see the policy is clear in 
that it states: we will pay the cost of the repair, parts and call-out charges for work 
undertakenby a tradesperson authorised by us to carry out temporary or permanent 
repairs.
So, its clear the repair is covered. However, I can see this section of the policy is silent in 
terms of trace and access cover. If this was a standalone home emergency policy then I 
would argue that the trace and access costs should be covered as they havent been 
excluded  and this work was required to fix the leak (which Mrs J was covered for under her 
policy). However, this isnt a standalone home emergency policy  it was purchased along 
with a wider home insurance policy. So, I think its important to consider the policy holistically 
(i.e., all sections of the policy).
Its not unusual for the insurance industry for trace and access costs to be covered under the 
buildings section of policies. I have further reviewed Mrs Js policy and in the buildings 
section there is a specific inclusion in respect to trace and access. It states, we will pay the 
cost of removing and replacing any part of the buildings necessary to repair a household 
heating or water system that has caused an escape of water or oil. In essence, this is the 
work Mrs J had done.
Therefore, whilst I think the emergency section of the policy mightve been clearer. I think 
when looking at the whole policy holistically, it becomes clear that any trace and access 
work is specifically covered in the buildings section of the policy.
Therefore, I think if RSA had authorised the work / completed it themselves then the repair 
and the trace and access work would be covered by the policy  albeit the policy excesses 
would apply. So, in line with what the policy schedule sets out, the repair shouldnt require 
Mrs J to pay an excess. But the trace and access works would require a £350 excess to be 
paid  as this is what is set out in the policy schedule.
I dont think RSA did authorise the work to take place. However, I dont think RSA has 
handled this claim as well as it should. As insurer of all parts of the policy, I think it shouldve 
provided a better service to Mrs J. I think it shouldve taken responsibility for arranging the 
trace and access works, having known this was required from what its appointed plumber 
had reported. This wouldve saved Mrs J feeling obliged to appoint her own contractor. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint.
I think RSA should reimburse the costs Mrs J has incurred for the trace and access work and 
the repair  this is once Mrs J has submitted valid receipts. However, I do think the 
reimbursement should be reduced to reflect the excess payment Mrs J wouldve incurred 
had the policy operated properly. I think this is fair. As Mrs J has been without this money, I 
intend for RSA to add 8% simple interest to the net payment (from the date Mrs J made the 
initial payment to the date RSA reimburse Mrs J).
I do think this claim has been more troublesome for Mrs J than it shouldve been. As claims 
experts, I think RSA shouldve done more to lead Mrs J through the process. Shes had to 
find her own contractor and the experience appears to have caused some distress for Mrs J. 
Therefore, I intend to award £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs J accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
RSA didnt reply to my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Reimburse the costs Mrs J has incurred for the trace and access work and the repair 
(on submission of valid receipts), less excess
Add 8% simple interest to the net payment (from the date Mrs J made the initial 
payment to the date RSA reimburse Mrs J)
Pay Mrs J £200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman