DRN-3784771
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for the following reasons:
Aviva placed two medical exclusions on her policy retrospectively.
Aviva didnt put her on the Extended Hospital list as shed requested when she took 
out her policy. 
Mrs H is being represented by her husband, Mr H, on this complaint. 
What happened
Mrs H took out her private medical insurance policy through a broker. The policy started on 
1 September 2021 and Aviva was the underwriter. The policy was taken out on a continued 
medical exclusions basis from her previous provider.
In May 2022, Mrs H was experiencing pain in her shoulder and contacted Aviva to register a 
claim. It requested medical information from Mrs H. Once received, it was reviewed and 
noted that Mrs Hs issues with her shoulder hadnt been resolved as had been declared in 
her application. Two exclusions were therefore placed on the policy for Mrs Hs right 
shoulder and for her spine. Mrs H had scans and consultations by this point, so Aviva settled 
the outstanding fees for these, as a gesture of goodwill. However, it said, any costs incurred 
from 27 May 2022 (which was when it first informed Mrs H of the two exclusions applied) 
would be her responsibility to settle. 
Mrs H was also unhappy that Aviva hadnt put her on the Key Hospital list. Aviva accepted it 
had made an error in part. It offered to pay Mrs H 50% of the annual difference in premium 
to upgrade from Expert Select Hospital list to the Key Hospital list. Mrs H was still unhappy 
as she said she requested the Extended Hospital list. Aviva said it would change this again 
for Mrs H but wouldnt waive the difference in the premiums. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think Aviva had done 
anything wrong in applying the two exclusions to Mrs Hs policy retrospectively and that it 
was fair and reasonable that Aviva paid for Mrs Hs scan and consultations as a gesture of 
goodwill. It wasnt obliged to pay for any further treatment for these conditions from 
27 May 2022. 
Our investigator also said Aviva accepted it made an error in part regarding adding the 
requested hospital list on Mrs Hs policy and she was satisfied it took the necessary steps to 
put things right for Mrs H. She didnt think Aviva needed to do anything further regarding this 
issue. 
Mrs H accepted the investigators findings on the hospital list issue.
She disagreed with the investigators findings on the point regarding the exclusions added to 
the policy retrospectively. She asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so 
its been passed to me. 
In summary, she said:
As she accepts the findings on the hospital list issue, she only wants to refer the 
issue regarding the exclusions being added retrospectively.
Shed never given the impression to Aviva that the shoulder issue had been resolved. 
The medical declaration states the issues werent resolved with blood tests pending 
and a referral to a specialist was made for neck pain. 
The medical conditions had been declared and the exchange of emails between the 
broker and the Aviva underwriting team resulted in one medical exclusion being 
made for the bilateral hip. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs H has switched provider for her private medical insurance policy, from Aviva, at 
the time of the policy renewal. 
For completeness, I confirm that I wont be looking at the issue regarding the hospital list as 
Mrs H has accepted the investigators findings on this point. 
The key issue for me to decide therefore is whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in 
applying the two exclusions retrospectively to Mrs Hs policy.  
In order to decide this, Ive considered the relevant case law here which is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The Act requires consumers 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract.
The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if the consumer fails to do this, 
the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes 
as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer 
has to show it wouldve offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer 
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mrs H took the policy out on a continued medical exclusions basis, and this was accepted by 
Aviva. She was required to complete a medical declaration form. This is normal practice for 
insurers to ask about any recent health issues and to assess whether further exclusions 
needed to be applied. 
Aviva says Mrs H didnt declare the full extent of her shoulder and spine issues when she 
completed the medical declaration. In effect, Aviva says Mrs H failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation. 
The question Mrs H was asked on the medical declaration was:Have you or any person to be covered by this policy experienced symptoms, or had 
any consultations, diagnostic tests or treatment in the last 12 months or do you 
currently have appointments planned with a GP, specialist or a hospital in the future?
I can see she answered Yes to this question. This is not in dispute. Mrs H was asked to 
provide details of this. The declaration shows she suffered symptoms of pain in her neck and 
right shoulder, and she had consultations in June 2021 and July 2021 for these. She also 
said in the same form under a separate column headed Pain from neck and shoulders that 
her present state of health was excellent and there was no foreseeable need for further 
consultation or treatment. Based on what Mrs H had completed on the declaration, the 
information was reviewed by Avivas underwriting team and no further exclusions were 
applied to the policy and the premium was set. 
Upon contacting Aviva to authorise treatment for her neck and shoulder, the medical 
declaration form completed by Mrs H was reviewed and medical information was requested 
to ascertain the extent of her medical symptoms. Aviva said Mrs H hadnt declared the 
arthritis she was diagnosed with in her right shoulder, and her spine had shown 
degenerative changes. The letter from her consultant confirmed this. 
Ive reviewed this letter, dated 7 July 2021, which confirms both that she was diagnosed with 
arthritis in her right shoulder, and she was suffering from degenerative issues to her cervical 
spine. The MRI results from June 2021 showed she had multilevel cervical and upper 
thoracic spondylosis.
Based on the evidence provided, Im not persuaded Mrs H provided the full extent of the 
symptoms she was suffering from, as she ought to have done when she took out the policy. I 
think she failed to take reasonable care when completing the medical questions and there 
was therefore misrepresentation. 
I note Aviva said, had the full information been provided at the time Mrs H made the 
application, the exclusions would have been added and the policy would have been offered 
on different terms. Therefore, I think the misrepresentation was a qualifying one as I dont 
think the full extent of the medical symptoms was deliberately withheld by Mrs H from Aviva. 
So, based on CIDRA, I think the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and I can see 
that the policy was offered to Mrs H on those different terms. 
When this happens, CIDRA allows the insurer to apply those terms retrospectively on the 
medical information that was reviewed and assessed. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
I can see Aviva has paid £2,983.40 (less the £200 policy excess) in costs incurred by Mrs H 
for the claim for conditions which would have been excluded at the time Mrs H made the 
medical declaration. Aviva has settled this as it had already provided authorisation for the 
treatment. 
It also arranged settlement of a further £1,117 for a CT scan and a consultation as a gesture 
of goodwill as this was prior to Aviva communicating its decision to apply the exclusions to 
the policy. But Aviva said any costs incurred by Mrs H from 27 May 2022 would be her 
responsibility to pay as this was the date it informed Mrs H that the exclusions had been 
added. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs Hs comments that shed never given the impression to Aviva that the 
shoulder issue had been resolved. But the medical declaration completed said that her 
present state of health was excellent and there was no foreseeable need for further 
consultation or treatment in regard to the pain from the neck and shoulder. Based on this 
and the letter from her consultant, it was clear that the full extent of her symptoms wasnt declared as they ought to have been.
Having carefully considered what happened and taking everything into account, I think Aviva 
has acted in line with what would be expected. And I dont think it has treated Mrs H unfairly 
or unreasonably by applying the exclusions retrospectively.
Overall, based on all the information available, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Aviva not to exclude the two medical conditions that 
have been applied retrospectively. It follows that I dont require Aviva to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman