DRN-2923316
The complaint
Mr A complains that he is being held liable for a debt on his Santander UK Plc credit card 
account, after he believed hed paid off this amount. Santander say Mr A wasnt entitled to 
the money used.
  
What happened
Mr A held a current account and a credit card account with Santander. In September 2019 
he received a payment in to his current account with the reference food order. Some of the 
money was passed on to a third party, and the rest Mr A put towards paying off his credit 
card.
Several weeks later Santander received word that the payment in to Mr As account was 
fraudulent. They placed a block on his accounts and asked Mr A to explain the credit. He 
told them he could provide proof of entitlement in branch.
Santander werent satisfied with this and after several more weeks took the decision to close 
Mr As accounts. The current account was overdrawn, which Mr A repaid. Santander also 
took the decision to remove the amount Mr A had paid towards his credit card with the 
disputed funds  less his subsequent payments and interest. This amounted to £971.70.
At first Mr A wasnt told where this charge had come from and had to chase this up with 
Santander over several months. He was eventually given the correct information. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair, and so raised a complaint. Santander responded saying theyd 
acted within the terms of his accounts. They said as the funds were from a reported 
fraudulent transaction, they wouldnt rescind the charge of £971.70. They said to consider 
removing the charge theyd need the sending bank to withdraw their claim to fraud. But they 
accepted they had given Mr A some wrong information on the phone and offered £25 in 
compensation.
Mr A then gave some more details to Santander. He said his friend, who Ill call X, asked him 
to send him some money in another country where Mr A also holds accounts. X told him he 
needed the money for his father, who was unwell. He sent X the local equivalent of the 
payment. X then told him that a third party who Mr A didnt know, who Ill call Y, would send 
him the money in the UK. He didnt know Y personally. 
Mr A did provide a letter dated several months after the closure, from X explaining why hed 
asked for the money. X also provided statements showing hed paid Y money from his own 
account in the other country. Hes tried to contact Y, but they had refused to help him. Y had 
accused Mr A of being a scammer.
Santander didnt think this changed their decision, as they couldnt understand why Y would 
be involved in this transaction. They said they wouldnt be removing the disputed amount 
from the balance on the credit card.
Unhappy with this Mr A referred the complaint to our service. When reviewing the case to 
send us Santander felt they had taken too long to explain to Mr A why the charge had been 
added to his account. They increased their compensation offer to £100. 
One of our investigators looked in to what happened. They asked several more questions to 
Mr A about the transaction in to the account  but didnt think theyd received enough 
evidence from Mr A to demonstrate he was entitled to the funds.
On that basis the investigator felt the blocks and account closure were in line with the terms 
of the accounts, and so were reasonable. The investigator also felt that the charge applied to 
the credit card was fair, as Mr A was not entitled to the funds. 
But they felt the service Mr A had received from Santander hadnt been reasonable. It took a 
number of calls over a number of months before the bank made it clear what the charge was 
and why it had been charged. They felt that Santanders increased offer of compensation 
was a fair way to reflect this and didnt suggest anything further.
Mr A disagreed that this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Because no agreement 
could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has written a detailed timeline of the events, and these are well known to 
both parties. In this decision Ill focus on the details I feel are most relevant to the outcome.
Account blocks and closure
Both parties are aware that the money paid in to Mr As account was reported as fraudulent. 
So, in the circumstances its not unreasonable for Santander to have blocked the account 
initially while they investigated. They have legal and regulatory obligation to ensure their 
accounts arent being used in a way that would facilitate financial crime. The terms of Mr As 
account also allow them to block payments and ask for further information. Im satisfied 
Santander had reasonable grounds to be concerned about the use of the current account, 
and request Mr A explain the payment in to his current account.
In this case Santander werent happy with the information they received from Mr A about the 
payment in to his account  so took the decision to close the account with no further notice. 
Generally, banks are required to give reasonable notice before closing an account. In 
practice this often means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the 
circumstances. 
By the point the accounts were closed they had been blocked from further spending for two 
months. In practice, as Mr A hadnt been able to use his account, I consider this account was 
closed with no notice  as in Mr A didnt have the opportunity to make other banking 
arrangements. 
Santanders current account terms outline when they can close account with no further 
notice, and Im satisfied that they acted in line with these terms and the relevant regulations.
In terms of the credit card account, Santander can withdraw their decision to lend. Again, the 
terms outline when they can close an account without giving the required notice. Having considered the circumstances, Im satisfied these apply here and it wasnt unreasonable for 
Santander to close the credit card account.
Overall, I cant say Santander have done anything wrong with the block and subsequent 
closure of Mr As accounts, so they dont need to do anything further to rectify the situation.
Payment in to Mr As account and charge on the credit card
Its accepted that the payment in to Mr As current account was reported as fraudulent, and 
Mr A used a portion of these funds to pay down his credit card balance. 
Santanders position is that Mr A wasnt entitled to these funds, and as such he should not 
have been able to use them to pay down a debt to them. In effect by returning the funds 
theyve placed him in the position he would have been in had the money never entered his 
current account.
The key question for me to answer is whether Mr A was entitled to the funds in the account, 
or at the very least had reasonable grounds to believe he was.
However, I dont believe this to be the case. Mr A has explained he believed he was 
receiving the money in relation to a payment he sent to X, and he has provided evidence he 
made a payment of a roughly equivalent amount on the same day in another country. 
But hes not been able to provide any evidence of what was agreed with X at the time. In 
conversations with Santander Mr A wasnt always consistent in why X needed the money.
The letter from X is dated several months after the account was closed, and I have no way of 
knowing how accurate this is. Especially as its clear the funds werent sent to Mr As 
account by X, but by Y.
Its unclear what relationship Mr A has with Y. Mr A has indicated hed been in contact with 
Y, but again hasnt been able to demonstrate why Y was sending him money on behalf of X. 
The reference sent by Y was food order, which doesnt tie in with the explanation Mr A 
gave of X needing the money for his father. 
Mr A provided Santander receipts which seem to show X paying Y money in the other 
country on the same day the transaction took place. But this wouldnt seem to make sense if 
X was the person who needed the money. It seems unclear why Mr A needed to be involved 
in this transaction at all.
Mr A also hasnt been able to explain why he sent on a portion of the money received to 
another third party, within ten minutes of it being received. This suggests to me Mr A knew 
about the payment arriving and wanted to move it on quickly. Which in turn suggests he was 
aware this wasnt his money.
Ive also taken in to account the sending bank has reported the funds as fraudulent, which as 
far as Im aware hasnt been withdrawn. If this was a simple misunderstanding between X 
and Y, Id have expected this to be resolved by now.
Overall, Im not satisfied Mr A was entitled to this money, or that he would have reasonable 
grounds to believe this was his money to spend. It follows then that it isnt unreasonable for 
Santander to refuse this money when Mr A was trying to pay down his debt to them on his 
credit card. I consider it fair then for Santander to reverse this payment to his credit card and 
ask Mr A to repay what he owes.Mr A subsequently made payments to his credit card using funds not in dispute, before the 
payment to the credit card was reversed. This would have an effect on what Mr A owes, 
because of the interest charged on the balance. Santander have provided their calculations 
to take these in to account. 
Having reviewed these, Im satisfied that the amount of £971.70 is an accurate reflection of 
how much Mr A would have owed at the time it was added, had the fraudulent funds not 
been put towards his debt. 
The terms of the credit card also allow Santander to continue to charge interest in line with 
the agreement, even after the ability to spend is terminated. Im satisfied Santander havent 
behaved unreasonably in doing this. So, Im not convinced Santander need to refund this 
amount back on to the account.
Customer service
Santander have accepted that they didnt always provide the best service to Mr A after his 
accounts had been closed and the charge added to his credit card balance. Theyve 
apologised and offered £100 in compensation for this in total.
Ive reviewed Santanders contact notes for Mr A, and also listened to a number of calls 
between the two parties. Having done so I accept that Mr A would have been frustrated that 
he wasnt getting clear answers on why this charge had been added to his credit card. It took 
over two months before Santander told him what the charge was in relation to, when they 
should have been clear about this as soon as it was added. 
I think there was some confusion on the part of Santander, and they didnt always give Mr A 
the right information. For example, in one call Santander told Mr A that he needed to 
complete a dispute form, but this wasnt correct. 
However, this is then corrected the next day in a call Mr A has with Santander, without him 
ever filling in this form. But I can understand why Mr A would be frustrated that he cant get 
clear answers when he calls, and this has caused him trouble and upset.
However, I also must balance this with the fact Santander had already spoken to Mr A about 
the payment in to his current account, which he had then put towards the credit card debt 
and made him aware it had been reported as fraudulent. So, I think its likely Mr A had a 
reasonable understanding of why Santander had reapplied the charges to his credit card. I 
think therefore the inconvenience to Mr A would be lessened by this.
With this in mind, I think the total offered by Santander of £100 is reasonable, and reflects 
the distress and inconvenience the delays in explaining the charge caused to Mr A.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr A £100 in total for the delays in 
confirming the reason for the charge on his credit card account.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ombudsman