DRN-1917350
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mrs C says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold the PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
As this policy was sold many years ago, there is limited information and evidence available 
to help me decide whether the policy was mis-sold. Where there is limited information 
available, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence that is available 
including NatWest and Mrs Cs testimony. 
Mrs C says she wasnt given an option to not take the PPI but NatWest says it wouldve 
made the optional nature of the PPI clear and sought Mrs Cs consent before adding it to her 
account. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Cs mortgage offer which noted the PPI on there separately with the 
benefit amount shed selected and the monthly cost set out. Ive also seen a copy of the 
direct debit mandate Mrs C signed agreeing to make the monthly payments. Nothing on 
these documents suggest that it was a compulsory part of the mortgage  and I think its 
clear that the PPI was a separate product with a separate cost. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I havent seen or heard enough to make me think its more 
likely NatWest didnt make it clear that PPI was optional, or that Mrs C didnt agree to have 
it.   
Mrs Cs main argument is that she feels NatWest pressured her to take the PPI. When a 
consumer claims they were pressured to take PPI, Id need persuasive evidence to uphold 
the complaint on this basis as pressure can be subjective. Encouraging a customer to 
consider buying PPI and highlighting the benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue 
pressure. In order to uphold a complaint due to pressure, Id need to hear detail as to what 
was said or done which made a consumer feel they are unable to decline cover. 
Whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mrs C has said, and I appreciate her strength of 
feeling regarding this, I havent heard enough to make me think its more likely than not 
NatWest put pressure on Mrs C to take the PPI.  
Mrs C says NatWest advised her to take the PPI but NatWest says it didnt. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think NatWest gave Mrs C a tailored recommendation to take the PPI so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure she got 
enough clear information so she could decide if she wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs C was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. For example, she was employed 
and didnt suffer from any medical conditions, so she wouldnt be affected by anything in the 
terms about known health issues or unusual working arrangements. 
Based on what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. Mrs C says she wouldve received good sick pay from her employer. She also 
says she had significant savings available and an insurance policy. But given the time thats 
lapsed, understandably, she hasnt been able to provide any evidence of her savings, nor 
the alternative insurance she had. Shes added she couldve sold her car and her house. 
But this PPI policy couldve paid out on top of her sick pay if she was off work due to 
accident or sickness. It also wouldve provided up to 12 months of cover for unemployment.  
Having the policy also left her savings intact for her to use for the purpose she intended - I 
understand she initially wanted to use it to buy a larger property but has also since used it in 
her business. Without seeing the details of her other insurance, I cant say there was any 
duplication of cover. Having the policy pay out during difficult times, would also enable her to 
keep her valuable assets such as her car or home. 
So, while I understand she may have had some other means available to her at the time, I 
still think she couldve found the policy to be useful had she found herself unexpectedly out 
of work. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence of not 
being able to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover especially given 
she was solely responsible for this mortgage.  
So I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman