DRN-3122678
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) wont reimburse him the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary Mr O held a credit card with Vanquis. On 10 June 2020, Mr O fell victim to an 
impersonation scam. Mr O had intended on purchasing tickets for some flights abroad and, 
after looking online, was directed to what he thought was a legitimate travel company.
Unfortunately Mr O was in fact communicating with fraudsters. Mr O had correspondence 
with the fraudsters over phone, email and through messages.
After the relevant flights and dates had been chosen Mr O ended up making card payments 
for the flights. 
Mr O paid £100 as a deposit and was told he could pay the remainder of the balance before 
the flight. After the initial payment, Mr O was led into making a further £700 payment on his 
credit card.
Mr O, during his correspondence with the fraudsters, provided them with his banking details 
and other information as he believed he was liaising with a genuine travel company. 
The two payments of £100 and £700 were sent to a money transfer service provider whom 
Ill refer to as P.
Further payments were attempted from the credit card by the fraudsters, which were 
declined and didnt go through, but two further smaller amounts of £50 and £25 did go 
through.
Mr O contacted Vanquis to report what had happened and sought a refund of the £875.
Vanquis ultimately considered that Mr O had authorised the transactions of £100 and £700 
with it sending Mr O a one-time-passcode for the £700 transaction which was entered 
successfully. So it considered Mr O was liable for the two amounts. It also advised the two 
other payments of £50 and £25 that had been taken, had been refunded by P as those 
amounts remained. But unfortunately the £100 and £700 had already been moved on so 
couldnt be recovered. 
Unhappy with Vanquis response, Mr O referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They considered Mr O, despite being a victim of a scam, had authorised the first two 
transactions of £100 and £700. They also didnt think Vanquis ought to have done more to 
identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And they also 
considered that a Section 75 or chargeback claim would have been unsuccessful. 
Mr O responded as he considered more should have been done to recover the funds as he 
reported the fraud to Vanquis shortly after he had made the payments.
Our investigator explained to Mr O that P had confirmed to Vanquis that the £100 and £700 
had been moved on to another foreign bank so the funds werent recoverable  but the £50 
and £25 hadnt, which was why P returned them to Vanquis.
Mr O has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to clarify that within this decision, I can only look at 
the actions of Vanquis. Any concerns Mr O has with P, would need to be raised with them 
in the first instance.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. This is set out within the Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (PSRs) and these are the relevant regulations in place here.
Under Section 67 of the PSRs it states:
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or 
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that 
payment transaction forms part. 
(2) Such consent 
(a) may be given before or, if agreed between the payer and its 
payment service provider, after the execution of the payment 
transaction; 
(b) must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider; and 
(c) may be given via the payee or a payment initiation service 
provider.So the question I have to ask myself here is whether the payment transactions made are 
considered as authorised as set out by the PSRs. So, whether Mr O consented to the 
execution of the payment transaction. Consent, in this context, is explained as being given in 
the form and in accordance with procedure agreed between the payer (Mr O) and the 
payment service provider (Vanquis). Consent is typically given by a consumer providing the 
relevant card details over the phone or entering them online, or by other means such as 
contactless or entering a PIN on a terminal or ATM. A consumer, using the card or its details 
in this way is, for the purposes of the PSRs, a consumer authorising a payment transaction. 
They have consented to the execution of the payment transaction by providing their card or 
the details of their card. 
It is important to point out that consenting to the execution of a payment transaction is an 
objective test and it doesnt depend on what Mr O knew at the time they completed the 
procedure for giving consent. 
Mr O provided the relevant card details for the initial £100 to be paid. And then Mr O agreed 
to a further £700 payment and this payment also required a one-time-passcode from 
Vanquis which was sent to his mobile. Mr O was aware of these payments and amounts 
(albeit under deception) and unfortunately, by providing his card details and the one-time-
passcode for the second payment, Mr O has, in line with the PSRs, given his consent (in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Vanquis) to the execution of the 
payment transactions. 
This means that under the PSRs Mr O has authorised the two credit card transactions of 
£100 and £700 and is therefore responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Mr O was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Vanquis have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr O when he made the credit card payments or whether it should have done more 
than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the credit card payments or the amounts that ought to have alerted 
Vanquis to the possibility Mr O was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of 
transfers and transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should 
possibly intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. 
I have also looked to see whether Vanquis acted appropriately once the scam was reported 
and whether it acted promptly to see if any of the funds could be recovered. Mr O considers 
Vanquis should have done more for him here, as he contacted Vanquis around 30 minutes 
after the payment of £700 which was made at 15:32pm.
I can see Mr O did log the fraud with Vanquis, and Vanquis records show that the call ended 
at around 16:20pm.
Unfortunately the payments were moved on from P by the fraudster shortly after Mr O had 
reported the fraud to Vanquis. So even if Vanquis had reported the fraud instantly, it still 
would have required P to also have acted instantly. Unfortunately fraudsters will typically 
move on funds as soon as they are sent. In this case I dont think there was anything Vanquis could have done sooner that would have meant the £100 and £700 could have 
been recovered.
I am also mindful, given the nature of the payments being made here  to a money transfer 
service provider, other alternative methods to share liability or an attempt to recover the 
funds, such as through a Section 75 claim (under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) or a 
chargeback wouldnt have had any reasonable chance of success. 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr Os been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Vanquis 
decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because Im satisfied that Mr O, by providing his card details, consented to the 
execution of the payment transactions. Vanquis followed Mr Os instructions to make the 
payments of £100 and £700 and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. 
And unfortunately, the funds were moved on meaning Vanquis were unable to recover them 
or do anything to help Mr O further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman