DRN-2822580
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that Mrs and Mr J took out in 2007 on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker who represented London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C). 
Mrs J and Mr J, who have third-party representation, are unhappy with several aspects of 
the mortgage, but chiefly that L&C recommended they take the mortgage on an interest-only 
basis.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mrs J and Mr J took the mortgage in 2007; it was for a little under £119,000, on interest-only, 
and repayable after 25 years. The point-of-sale documentation recorded Mrs J and Mr Js 
intended repayment strategy as the sale of their home.
The complaint is that the interest-only mortgage had been mis-sold. We initially thought the 
complaint might be time-barred under our rules. L&C later consented to us considering the 
case. When we did so, our investigator didnt think L&C had done anything wrong. Mrs J and 
Mr J have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and decided how much weight should be 
attached to it. In this case, slightly unusually in a case where the consumers have third-party 
representation, we have testimony direct from Mrs J and Mr J (in the form of Mrs Js emails 
of 14 February and 24 March 2021) as well as from their representative. Having considered 
both very carefully, I find Mrs Js comments to be of more value than those of the 
representative. They have the advantage of being personal and unrehearsed, hence they 
come across to me as more authentic. 
The complaint presented by Mrs J and Mr Js representative relies heavily on the Mortgage 
and Home Finance Conduct of Business rules (MCOB). Those rules have been in force 
since 2004, and so are relevant to this sale, which took place in 2007. But each time the 
representative quoted from MCOB to allege a breach of the rules by L&C, it quoted the rules 
as they apply now, not as they applied in 2007. But the rules as they are today arent the 
correct test to use when deciding this complaint.
In this decision I have to look at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of regulatory 
requirements and what was regarded as good industry practice at the relevant time) and 
considered generally whether L&C did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In 
doing that, I can give no regard to the regulatory standards as they are today, or to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
The starting point in a complaint of this type is the point-of-sale documentation from 2007. 
The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always 
possible information might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than 
peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can 
sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. Even if anomalies or mistakes are identified, that doesnt 
automatically mean a mis-sale has taken place. We still have to consider whether they might 
or might not have affected the suitability of the advice that was given. 
But as I said earlier, Mrs Js personal testimony from earlier this year carries a lot of weight 
too; and having considered what she told us very carefully, its difficult for me come to any 
other conclusion that the mortgage L&C arranged in 2007 was suitable, given Mrs J and Mr 
Js circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Whilst L&Cs point-of-sale documentation doesnt fully make this as clear as it might, its 
apparent from what Mrs J has told us that she and Mr J were under considerable financial 
pressure at the time. The mortgage they already had in 2007 had begun as capital 
repayment, but theyd been forced to switch it to interest-only to make it more affordable. 
They had other debts they were struggling to pay, and in the case of one of those debts, the 
creditor had obtained a charging order over their property. So, by the time Mrs J and Mr J 
sought advice from L&C, Im satisfied they were in difficulties financially, and very much in 
need of a solution. 
Advising people to re-mortgage to consolidate existing debt isnt inherently unsuitable, 
whether that be now or in 2007. It all depends on the grounds given for the argument that 
the advice was unsuitable, and the individuals circumstances and objectives at the time the 
advice was given. As Ive said, hindsight cant be a factor here.
The main argument against consolidating unsecured debts into a mortgage are that the 
debts become secured, and are repaid over a longer period. So, even if the mortgage is on a 
lower rate, its likely the overall interest cost will be higher in the long term. The main 
argument in favour of consolidation is that it frees up cashflow in the consumers monthly 
budget. 
The balancing factor tends to be the extent to which there is a need for improved cashflow. 
In this particular case, there was the added pressure of the charging order one of Mrs J and Mr Js creditors had obtained. Im satisfied that L&Cs advisor drew Mrs J and Mr Js 
attention to the downsides of consolidation, which I detailed a moment ago, allowing them to 
make an informed decision that the benefits generally outweighed the disadvantages.
L&Cs advice was a re-mortgage to repay the existing mortgage and consolidate all the other 
debts including the one that was the subject of the charging order. The initial 
recommendation was for the re-mortgage element (a little over £92,000) to be on capital 
repayment, and the consolidation element (£28,000) to be in interest-only. 
However, this provided impossible after the property valuation came back less than 
anticipated, changing the terms on which the lender was willing to lend. The lower valuation 
meant Mrs J and Mr J faced a choice between borrowing less, or borrowing the same 
amount but at a higher interest rate. L&Cs contemporaneous notes show that Mrs J and Mr 
J opted for the latter, but asked that all of the mortgage be interest-only, for affordability 
reasons. 
The rate in question was 6.99%, fixed for three years. That might seem high in todays 
terms, but this sale pre-dates the financial crisis that caused rates generally to fall 
substantially only a year or so later. 
Mrs J has told us that it was never her and Mr Js intention to remain on interest-only for 
long. However, when they approached the lender a few years later to ask about switching 
back to capital repayment, the figure they were quoted for the monthly repayment was 
unaffordable, based on Mr Js earnings. 
Thats not something I can consider as part of this complaint, insofar as it happened several 
years later, and involved the lender rather than L&C. But I think it serves to illustrate that 
affordability was always centre stage for Mrs J and Mr J and at the heart of the 
recommendation L&C made in 2007. I also think it goes a long way to explaining why a 
25-year term (which ran beyond Mr Js anticipated retirement date) was recommended and 
accepted. Again, recommending a mortgage that ran beyond retirement wasnt unusual or 
frowned upon in 2007.
Lastly, on the subject of affordability, its been suggested this was a self-certification 
mortgage; that is, one where the applicants arent required to prove their income. Quite the 
contrary is the case; its evident from the point-of-sale documentation and contemporaneous 
contact notes that L&C obtained proof of Mrs J and Mr Js incomes at the time. 
Taking all of the above together, given the information captured about Mrs J and Mr Js 
situation in the point-of-sale documentation, combined with Mrs Js own description of the 
pressures they faced at the time, the overall conclusion Ive come to is that the 
recommendation L&C made  to take the entire mortgage on interest-only over 25 years - 
wasnt just suitable; it was probably the only option for them at that moment.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman