DRN-2791748
The complaint
Mr D complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DGI) for delays he experienced 
in getting his TV repaired. He also says that the TV was damaged by DGIs agents. He 
wants a replacement TV, or compensation. 
What happened
Mr D held appliance insurance for his television set. 
In September 2020, Mr D contacted DGI and informed them that there was a problem with 
the sound on his TV. DGI arranged for collection of Mr Ds TV, to be repaired by one of its 
repair agents. 
The TV was collected on 14 September 2020, and returned to Mr D, as repaired, on 23 
September 2020. 
Mr D attempted to use the TV but the sound and image on his TV were no longer working. 
He also noticed two scratches to the rear of the TV, which were not there before. 
Mr D contacted DGI, and DGI arranged for a second attempted repair, by another of its 
repair agents. The TV was collected from Mr D on 6 October 2020 and returned to him on 28 
October 2020. 
Following the second repair the TV worked satisfactorily, but still bore two scratches on the 
rear of the TV. 
Mr D complained to DGI about how long the repairs took, and about the damage the TV 
sustained. 
DGI sent Mr D its final response in November 2020. DGI partially upheld the complaint and 
offered Mr D £60 compensation to reflect the delays in getting his TV fixed. DGI did not 
accept liability for damage sustained whilst the TV was in the care of its agents.
Mr D was not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that DGI was correct to acknowledge delays in its service and to offer 
compensation for these, but DGI was wrong to say it bore no responsibility for its agents. 
Our investigator therefore considered that DGI ought to arrange for the TV to be assessed 
and repaired by its repair agents, or it should offer Mr D appropriate compensation to reflect 
the damage. She assessed this as £75. 
DGI has indicated it is willing to pay the additional compensation to Mr D. Mr D has not 
accepted the view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr D found his experience frustrating. To be without his TV for more than a 
week, only to have it returned not working and with scratches to the rear would have been 
upsetting. To then be without a properly functioning TV for a further 4 weeks while a second 
attempted repair was carried out would understandably feel unacceptable. 
I am pleased that DGI acknowledged that this amount of time was unreasonable and that 
DGI has offered compensation to reflect this.
I agree with the investigator that the £60 compensation offered is in line with awards we 
would make in similar circumstances and is reasonable to reflect the delay.  
Looking then at the scratches to the TV. I have seen the photographs provided of these and 
note that they are on the reverse of the TV, out of usual sight. I have also reviewed DGIs 
initial response to this and I agree with the investigator that DGI was wrong to deny 
responsibility for resolving the issue with the scratches. The policy information makes clear 
that damage caused by engineer who are not agents of DGI is not covered but makes no 
such exclusion of damage caused by its agents. 
In addition, Mr D did not have a direct relationship with the first repair agents in order to try to 
resolve the issue himself and so DGI ought to have helped to resolve this.
I think that the solution put forward by the investigator was sensible and I agree with it. This 
gave DGI the opportunity to liaise between Mr D and the agent in order to put matters right, 
or alternatively to pay to Mr D reasonable compensation to reflect the damage. The 
investigator assessed this at £75 and I agree that this is fair. 
This takes into account that the TV is fully functional, and the scratches are not usually 
visible and do not impact upon the functionality of the TV. 
DGI has elected to pay the compensation to Mr D, but Mr D does not think this is enough. 
He thinks he should have a replacement TV. 
I do not agree and think that to direct DGI to replace the TV would be disproportionate to the 
issue. I agree that the resolution proposed by the investigator is fair and is in line with 
awards we would make. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, DGI should pay to Mr D:
£60 compensation to reflect the delays (if not already paid); and 
£75 compensation to reflect the scratches to the rear of his TV.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to pay to Mr D:
£60 compensation to reflect his trouble and upset at the delays experienced (if this 
has not already been paid); and 
£75 compensation to reflect the scratches to the rear of his TV.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman