DRN-4186256
The complaint
Mr W complains about Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia)s handling of a claim on his 
home emergency insurance.
Mr Ws policy is administered by a third-party company on Helvetias behalf and all his 
correspondence has been with this company. However, Helvetia is the policy underwriter, so 
his complaint is against Helvetia. Any reference to Helvetia in my decision includes its 
agents, including the policy administrator.
What happened
Mr W had a Helvetia home emergency insurance policy. In March 2022, he reported a boiler 
leak. Helvetia sent an engineer to Mr Ws home on 9 March 2022. This engineer (who Ill 
refer to in this decision as K) said he couldnt access the boiler. Helvetia asked Mr W to 
remove the obstruction. 
Mr W disputed this, explained why access wasnt an issue, and asked for a second opinion. 
A second engineer attended on 23 March, agreed he could access the boiler safely, 
inspected it, and ordered new parts. He returned to fit these on 6 April 2022, fixing the leak. 
Mr W continued to experience problems with his boiler and central heating system over the 
next six months, as follows:
19 May. Mr W reported a drop in boiler pressure. Engineer scheduled for 20 May but 
cancelled by Mr W due to availability. Engineer attended 7 June. He repressurised 
the expansion vessel, tested the boiler, and was satisfied that the pressure issue was 
resolved.
28 July. Mr W told Helvetia the issue with his boiler wasnt resolved. Engineer 
scheduled for 1 August but cancelled by Mr W because K was the engineer 
instructed. Another engineer attended 6 August and said two thermostatic radiator 
valves (trv) in the hallway and living room radiators had to be replaced due to a 
Slow leak on valves. K instructed but cancelled by Mr W. Another engineer 
attended 15 August: Replaced lockshield on hallway and dining room radiators.
31 August. Mr W reported a leak from a radiator, causing water to pool on the floor. 
Engineer attended 1 September, recommended the radiator be replaced, and made 
a temporary repair.
3 October. Mr W reported a boiler pressure issue. Engineer scheduled for 15 October 
but cancelled by Mr W. Rescheduled for 18 October, cancelled by Mr W. Engineer 
attended 24 October: Replaced leaking Trv with lockshield valve. 
On 13 September 2022, Helvetia offered to cancel Mr Ws policy immediately without 
penalty, to refund his premium for the year (£174), refund the call-out fee (£95), and pay £85 
to apologise for its service failings.
Mr W complained to this service. He said, in summary:
K was rude and unhelpful. He refused to carry out repairs because he said the boiler 
didnt meet safety regulations when this wasnt true.
The delays  as well as Mr Ws need to be out of the country for work  meant the 
leak wasnt repaired for over a month.
Helvetias engineers couldnt fix the boiler pressure issue, so the problem lasted 
several months, causing him inconvenience and frustration.
An engineer replaced radiator valves but damaged the wood flooring.
The new radiator caps werent installed correctly, causing a leak and significant 
damage to the wood flooring.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Mr W had shown the damage to his flooring was caused by Helvetias engineers. He was 
also satisfied that Mr W had made use of his Helvetia policy several times and the 
compensation it offered covered any damage that might have resulted from any error(s) by 
its engineers. As such, he thought Helvetias offer was fair.
Mr W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy covers him for emergency repairs to his boiler and central heating system. I 
agree with Mr W that Helvetias initial response was poor. K didnt try to fix the boiler leak in 
March 2022 because he said his access to the boiler was obstructed by a cupboard. 
However, I dont think this was true. As Mr W pointed out:
An engineers report shows the boiler was serviced in November 2021 without any 
problem about access.
The boiler manual sets out minimum access requirements; Mr W has shown that his 
boiler met these. 
While photos show some personal items stored next to the boiler that might have 
impeded the engineer, Im sure these could have been easily moved.
I also understand Mr Ws frustration that problems with his boiler and central heating system 
took more than eight months to resolve. 
However, Ive studied Helvetias internal records, including the various engineers reports. 
Having done so, I note the following:
Mr W didnt have faith in K. (I note Mr W told us he was already unhappy with K due 
to another issue that was the subject of a separate complaint to this service.) 
This meant several appointments had to be rescheduled. For example, Mr W 
wouldnt allow K to carry out repairs in early August 2022.
Mr Ws job meant his own availability was limited and liable to change at short notice. 
For example, Mr W was out of the country for 12 days in March/April 2022. As he 
acknowledged, this was part of the reason the first repair couldnt be done until 6 
April. 
Helvetia arranged appointments at short notice to accommodate Mr Ws availability 
(for example, on 6 June and 31 August for the following day).It appears that the problem with at least one radiator was unrelated to the original 
leak and/or pressure issue. 
Overall, I think Helvetia did its best to accommodate both Mr Ws work schedule and his 
refusal to let K do any of the work. While I understand and have sympathy with Mr W on both 
points, I think these limitations were at least partly responsible for the delays fixing the 
ongoing problems with his boiler and central heating.
While I dont agree that Helvetia was wholly responsible for delays arranging engineer 
appointments or for the boiler/central heating issues not being resolved until October 2022, I 
think it should compensate Mr W for the delays for which it was responsible. For example, 
Ks initial failure to investigate the boiler leak and some of the ongoing problems with the 
boiler pressure.
Ive reviewed images of the damage to Mr W flooring. Mr W believes his video clearly 
shows there was significant water damage to my flooring caused by fault [sic] 
valve/inadequate fitting. Im not persuaded by this. Mr W hasnt provided an independent 
report setting out the cause of damage. More importantly, the engineers reports show the 
relevant leak was due to the failure of a rusted valve and unrelated to the replacement 
valves previously fitted. This is supported by the engineers photos. Page 9 of Mr Ws policy 
booklet says: You are not covered for repairs where the damage is caused by rust. The 
booklet also says the policy wont replace curved or designer radiators (page 20). 
This means I cant reasonably conclude the damage to the flooring was either caused by the 
engineers or covered by Mr Ws policy. I dont think Helvetia needs to compensate Mr W for 
this.
As Ive noted, I think its right that Helvetia compensate Mr W for its failings. It offered to 
refund his 2021/22 premium in full, the initial call-out fee, and pay £85 compensation. In 
total, this comes to £259. In the circumstances, I think this is fair. Im not going to ask 
Helvetia to do anything more. I leave it to Mr W to decide if he wants to accept this offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think Helvetias offer is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman