DRN-2189494
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited unfairly charged her interest 
and a late payment fee.
What happened
Miss B opened a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct in 2018. Her account
included a buy now pay later (BNPL) deal that ended in June 2019. The agreement allowed
Miss B to avoid paying interest on purchases, provided she paid off the full balance before
the end of the BNPL period.
Miss B didnt clear the account balance before the promotion ended  her final payment was
made late. So Shop Direct applied interest and charged her a late payment fee.
Miss B complained because she says she tried to make the payment online on several
occasions, but there was a technical issue so she couldnt access the relevant web pages.
Miss B added that she was out of the country during part of June and early July and tried to
make the payment both in and outside of the UK  she also says she couldnt contact Shop
Direct whilst abroad. Miss B also complained that she received poor service from Shop
Direct when she tried to resolve this issue.
In its reply, Shop Direct referred to its records of Miss Bs access to her online account and
said that no payment was attempted on any dates prior to 28 June 2019  when the BNPL
period ended. It recognised that the customer service Miss B received didnt always meet
expectations and paid her £20 compensation to make up for this.
After Miss B asked this service to get involved, Shop Direct added that the terms and
conditions of Miss Bs agreement as well as the statements she was sent explain that she
needed to pay off the full balance before the BNPL period ends. Shop Direct says Miss B
was notified of the potential interest amount shed be charged if she didnt pay on time and
says that there were no known issues with its online system at the time. Shop Direct referred
to its records of Miss B logging in to her account and says that all access in June was made
from within the UK.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and asked Shop Direct to refund the interest and late
payment fee. The investigator was persuaded that Miss B wouldve made the payment on
time had she been able to access her online account without any technical problems. The
investigator also felt that he didnt have enough evidence to conclude that there werent any
issues with Shop Directs online system at the time.
Shop Direct didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision, explaining why I thought Shop Direct had acted fairly:
The terms of Miss Bs credit agreement say If you fail to make at least the minimum
payment by the due date a £12 charge will be payable. The terms also go on to explain how
the BNPL offer works and what Miss B needed to do in order to avoid having to pay interest
 in summary, Miss B would need to make sure she pays off any purchases before the
BNPL period ends.
Miss B didnt make her final payment until after the BNPL period had ended  Miss B made
the payment on 1 July and the BNPL period ended on 28 June. As Miss B paid late and
didnt clear the balance until after the BNPL period had ended, Shop Direct acted in line with
the terms and conditions when it charged her interest and a late payment fee.
Ive seen copies of Miss Bs statements. In many of these, Shop Direct provided a written
reminder of the BNPL end date and informed Miss B she can avoid paying interest by paying
the balance by this date. In the statements dated May and June 2019, Shop Direct included
a more detailed reminder  setting out the estimated interest Miss B would be charged if she
didnt pay the balance on time. So I think Shop Direct did enough to make sure Miss B was
aware that she may be charged interest if she doesnt pay the balance on time.
Miss B says her online account had technical issues, so she was unable to make her final
payment on time. She says she couldnt access the pages that allow her to view her
statements and make a payment. Miss B says she was out of the country between 21-25
June and 1-12 July and made attempts to pay both whilst in and outside of the UK.
Shop Direct says it isnt aware of any system issues around that time. It referred to Miss Bs
log in records and said that she hadnt logged in from a different country until 11 July. Shop
Direct added that Miss B couldve contacted it to advise she was having issues and that she
couldve paid using alternative means.
Miss B couldnt provide any information to show me the error she came across when trying
to make a payment via her online account. Shop Direct says it checked with its IT team and
couldnt find evidence of any technical issues around that time. So I cant say for sure what
happened at the time. Ive considered all the available evidence to decide what I think is
most likely to have happened.
Ive looked at the log in records Shop Direct sent us. I can see that Miss B logged in to her
online account on 15, 22 & 30 June as well as on 1 July when she made the payment.
Looking at the records, Miss B didnt access the make a payment section until 30 June,
which is after the BNPL period had ended. I cant say for certain what prevented Miss B
making the payment when she accessed her online account. But Miss B accessed her
account at least twice in June - before the BNPL period ended  and before she says she
travelled abroad. So, if there was a problem, she had time to contact Shop Direct to let it
know or arrange an alternative method of payment.
Shop Direct provided a contact number when Miss B took out her credit agreement as well
as providing it as part of various contact options on its website. So, in my view, Miss B had
the information she needed to reach out to Shop Direct and let it know there was a problem
 as well as make the payment over the phone, given this was a method of payment offered
by Shop Direct.
Miss B says she was abroad around the time so she couldnt contact Shop Direct. However,
looking at the IP information Shop Direct has sent us, it seems Miss B accessed her online
account throughout June using a device in the UK. I cant say for certain whether or not Miss
B was indeed travelling abroad. On balance however, it seems likely that Miss B was in theUK around the time the BNPL period was due to end. So I think Miss B had reasonable
opportunities to contact Shop Direct if she needed to.
Ive listened to the call Miss B made to Shop Direct in July, after she discovered shed been
charged interest and a late payment fee. During the call, Miss B seems to suggest she could
in fact make a payment via her online account, but that she had issues accessing
information about how much she had to pay. As I mentioned earlier, without more
information, I cant safely conclude what issues (if any) Miss B came across when accessing
her online account. But as I said, Shop Direct had provided Miss B with the information she
needs to ensure she paid her balance before the BNPL period ended. And Miss B had
reasonable opportunities to contact Shop Direct if she was unsure.
So even if Miss B was experiencing the technical issues she described when accessing her
online account, I think she had reasonable opportunities to contact Shop Direct to explain
there was a problem. Im not aware of anything that wouldve prevented Miss B paying the
balance using alternative means. So, in my opinion, Miss B couldve looked to use these
alternative options  such as make a payment over the phone.
Miss B says she received poor service over the phone when she contacted Shop Direct. She
says she was lied to and hung up on. Ive listened to the calls Shop Direct has sent us and I
havent heard anything that suggests Miss B was lied to or that a call was terminated. Shop
Direct acknowledged it couldve done better with some of the service it provided and paid
Miss B £20 compensation. I think this is a fair way to resolve this part of Miss Bs complaint.
Overall, I havent seen enough to be persuaded that Miss B was prevented from making the
payment before the BNPL period ended. And so I dont think Shop Direct acted
unreasonably when it applied interest and a late payment fee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct didnt reply. Miss B replied saying she didnt have any other information or 
evidence to provide that could verify her version of events. 
So theres nothing further for me to consider and my decision remains the same.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman