DRN-3339328
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard blocked a transaction
without informing her, which caused her embarrassment and they didnt send her a
PINSentry despite her requesting one multiple times.
What happened
Mrs D was attempting to make a purchase in a shop on 23 February 2021, but the
transaction declined, which left her feeling embarrassed. She says that Barclaycard should
have sent her a text to check with her that the purchase was genuine if Barclaycard
suspected fraud on her account, but she never received a text from them. Mrs D contacted
Barclaycard and was able to explain that the purchase was genuine. She says she was
disappointed she had to contact them as she needed to take the afternoon off work to
resolve this.
Mrs D raised a complaint with Barclaycard. She also complained that she had been trying to
receive a PINSentry from Barclaycard for over two years, despite asking them for this
multiple times. Mrs D also included in her complaint that she may have missed out on
benefits as a result of not being able to access her account online.
Barclaycard partially upheld Mrs Ds complaint. They said they would offer Mrs D £30
compensation as a goodwill gesture. Barclaycard said Mrs Ds attempted transaction was
referred via Barclaycards fraud prevention systems at 14:04 then at 14:08 a text message
was issued to Mrs D, by their system, asking her to confirm whether the transaction was
genuine. Barclaycard said that at 14:44 she called them and the card was made active when
she confirmed the transaction was genuine and all of the safeguards were removed by
14:51. Barclaycard said the correct process had been followed and her card was subject to
safeguards for less than an hour in total.
Barclaycard apologised for Mrs D being unable to receive her PINSentry previously. They
said that having reviewed her account, the last one they sent was on 10 February. The
complaint handler said that he had put in a request with one of the customer service
channels so that another one could be sent out.
In relation to Mrs Ds question about what benefits she may not have received over the last
few years, Barclaycard said this wasnt something they could look into as all of the
information regarding offers and benefits to their customers is available on their website.
Barclaycard acknowledged that Mrs Ds complaint should have been escalated and they
said in light of this breach, as her complaint had been closed instead of being escalated then
they would credit £50 to her Barclaycard account.
Mrs D brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator established that Barclaycard
hadnt previously paid the £30 compensation they had originally offered, so she arranged for
this to be credited to Mrs Ds account.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ds complaint. She said that Barclaycards terms and
conditions allow them to restrict the use of her account if they are concerned there could be
fraudulent or unauthorised activity on the account. Our investigator said that Barclaycard had
told her they had issued Mrs D with a PINSentry on two previous occasions. As the address
which Barclaycard have is the same address that Mrs D have provided us then she was
unable to find any error by Barclaycard here.
In relation to what benefits Mrs D could have had access to if she had been able to log
online, our investigator explained that our service couldnt award for the benefits she might
have been able to be eligible for as we wouldnt be able to say what she was or wasnt
eligible for. Mrs D asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said nobody had
seen any evidence that Barclaycard sent her a text about her transaction which caused her
great distress and an afternoon unpaid at work. She also doubted that Barclaycard had sent
her a PINSentry and said she had to go through a different channel to finally get this.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Ive considered what happened when Mrs Ds card declined in the shop. Theres
no doubt that this would have been embarrassing and confusing for her. But here, I have to
consider whether Barclaycards systems worked as they should have done. Im persuaded
that they did and Ill explain why.
Barclaycard explained in their final response letter to Mrs D, that from time to time they
receive information from third parties regarding accounts which could have been
compromised. So as they believed this in this instance, Barclaycard exercised caution and
blocked the card until they could confirm if the transaction being attempted was genuine.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the Barclaycard account and Im satisfied page 15
allows them to do this. I know Mrs D says that she never received a text from Barclaycard
regarding this and she was told that this is their process. While it doesnt say in the terms
and conditions that she would receive a text if they suspect a transaction may be made by
an unauthorised user, I have seen evidence that Barclaycard did in fact send a text to Mrs
Ds registered mobile phone number  the same mobile number that she provided this
service.
The message was sent at 14:08 on 23 February 2021, which is shortly after she had
attempted the transaction at 14:04. Barclaycards system shows SMS message sent
successfully. I asked Barclaycard whether the messages from the system were
automatically generated by the system, which they confirmed that they were, so I cant see
that human error would be why Mrs D didnt receive the message from Barclaycard.
So although Mrs D says she didnt receive this text from Barclaycard, they did send her a
text regarding this. I cant hold Barclaycard responsible if there were mobile network issues
preventing her from receiving a text, as they have evidenced they sent this. I can see from
Barclaycards system notes that Mrs D rang the fraud department at 14:40 and all blocks
were removed by 14:51.
The process from Mrs D attempting to make the transaction at 14:04, to the card being fully
active at 14:51 meant that the situation took 47 minutes to resolve. There would always be a
time impact in removing the blocks and making sure that the transaction was genuine. But
Im not persuaded that 47 minutes is an excessive time for this to happen from start to finish,
although I could imagine that it may feel to Mrs D in that situation that it may have felt
significantly longer to resolve, factoring in the embarrassment of the card declining and hernot receiving a text  although Barclaycard had sent one.
Next, Ive considered about what Mrs D has said about the PINSentry. When it comes to
complaints where its one word against another, I have to consider the evidence available to
me. I then have to weigh the evidence against the balance of probabilities, that is, whats
more likely to have happened in the circumstances. In all honesty, I cant say for certain how
many times Mrs D has requested the PINSentry.
Mrs D says she has requested this 10/11 times, whereas Barclaycard say they have sent
Mrs D a PINSentry four times. To try and get to the bottom of this, I asked Mrs D if she had
the dates and times she requested a PINSentry from Barclaycard and the specific number
she had called. Mrs D said she didnt have these but tried to contact them on my behalf to
get a call log and spent a significant time on the phone to them.
I apologise to Mrs D as my intention was not for her to spend any of her time getting this
information for me  our service is able to obtain information directly from Barclaycard. As
she gave me a specific number of times she had requested this information, I thought she
may have a record of when she requested this.
Mrs D sent me a telephone number which wasnt for Barclaycard directly, which may explain
why she was often on hold for long periods of time and passed between departments, or
why her requests didnt get through to Barclaycard  which is the business she is
complaining about here. But call logs would only provide information about when they spoke
to Mrs D and not the content of the calls, so Ive looked at what Barclaycard have said about
this.
Barclaycard have provided evidence that they have sent the PINSentry to Mrs D four times. I
will arrange for this evidence to be sent to Mrs D as Barclaycard had previously not given us
permission to do so. But I understand this issue is important to Mrs D and I think this will
help demonstrate that they have sent it out on more than one occasion to Mrs D, its just she
hadnt received it until a different department sent her one. So I have agreed with
Barclaycard that we can send her this screenshot.
While this doesnt show the dates of all of the times these have been sent as Barclaycards
system only records the last date it was sent, 28 June 2021, I can see that in Barclaycards
final response letter to Mrs D, they said the last one they had sent was 10 February and they
said they had put in a request on 18 March 2021, with one of their customer service
channels so that another one could be sent out.
Its difficult to put a specific number on how many times Mrs D has requested the PINSentry
directly through Barclaycard, but Barclaycard have evidenced that they sent it four times. As
Mrs D didnt receive these, then this may indicate an issue with the postal service as
Barclaycard have proved these were sent. But I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for Mrs D
not receiving the PINSentry when they have sent it on four occasions. It may be that she had
requested the PINSentry from other channels (such as the one she eventually received a
PINSentry from), but as her complaint is about Barclaycard, then I can only consider
Barclaycards actions here. So its possible that Mrs D may have requested the PINSentry
10 or 11 times but some of these requests may have been made with other channels and
not Barclaycard.
Ive considered what Mrs D has said about her potentially missing out on benefits over the
years by not being able to access her account online. But as our investigator explained to
Mrs D, we cant make an award for compensation based on what she might have potentially
missed out on, we can only look at what did happen and look at the impact this had on her.As Barclaycard explained to Mrs D, all information regarding offers and benefits to their
customers is freely available on their website and email, post and text, depending on her
marketing preferences. So I cant say that Barclaycard have done anything wrong here.
Barclaycard have paid Mrs D a total of £80 compensation as a result of the events
surrounding her complaint. Im satisfied that this is fair. While Mrs D has said that she had to
take an afternoon off work to sort out the card issue, it took 47 minutes to resolve from start
to finish, so Im persuaded that Barclaycards compensation was fair. They have proven that
they sent the text to Mrs D at 14:08 (within four minutes of the transaction declining) and
they have proven that they had sent the PINSentry on four occasions. So it would not be
proportionate for me to ask them to pay any more compensation here. So it follows that I
dont intend to ask Barclaycard to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard had no further information to add. Mrs D made a number of points. In 
summary, she said that with regards to the fraud, no actual evidence of the text they had 
sent had been provided and Barclaycard havent provided an audit of this. 
Mrs D said she asked Barclaycard for a copy of the final response letter but they wouldnt 
respond to her, they said they had credited £80 but hadnt, Barclaycard havent provided the 
dates that they sent the PINSentrys to her, they refused to give her call logs, all the contacts 
were pooled during busy periods, they appear to have an incorrect address and telephone 
number for her, Barclaycards first final response letter evidences they did not review her 
complaint in full and that she had been under the illusion that the telephone number took her 
through to the team at Barclaycard, but during the pandemic she had long phone calls with 
several teams across different countries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
I must make a couple of things clear to Mrs D. Complaint handling by a business isnt a 
regulated activity and as such, the issues shes raised that relate directly to how Barclaycard 
have investigated this complaint, such as issuing a duplicate final response letter once shes 
brought her complaint to our service/the first final response letter evidencing they did not 
review her complaint in full doesnt come under my powers to consider. 
But I do have a copy of all of the letters Barclaycard has sent Mrs D and I can confirm our 
investigator saw all of these letters before she wrote her view of the complaint  and our 
investigator forwarded these to Mrs D on 1 November 2021. If Mrs D still hasnt received any 
of these letters, our investigator will be more than happy to forward these onto her again if 
Mrs D wishes.
I also must make it clear that I can only look into the merits of the complaint which relate to 
Barclaycard only. So while I appreciate that resources may have been pooled during the 
pandemic, as the complaint is about Barclaycard solely, I can only look into their actions. 
Mrs D would be free to make a complaint against Barclays or the Isle of Man/Jersey 
business if she wished to do so. She will need to check beforehand to see who would need 
to look into a separate complaint, as our service does not have free reign to consider every 
complaint that is brought to us. For example if a complaint was brought about a financial institution based in Jersey, she would need to contact the Channel Islands Financial 
Ombudsman.
I can only consider the merits of the original complaint that Mrs D brought to our service. So I 
cant consider her asking Barclaycard for call logs for example as this wasnt part of the 
complaint she originally brought to this service. Mrs D would be able to make a separate 
complaint regarding this and the issues which werent part of her original complaint if she 
wishes to do so. 
I can confirm to Mrs D that Barclaycard sent the final response letters to the address she 
gave this service, so I am confident that they had her correct address at the time the letters 
were sent. This also matches up to the address that Mrs D confirmed in the response to her 
provisional decision. They also had the same mobile telephone number which Mrs D 
provided to this service. 
Ive considered what Mrs D has said with regards to the fraud, no actual evidence of the text 
they had sent had been provided and Barclaycard havent provided an audit of this. But the 
screenshot Barclaycard sent our service was an audit of their system notes. Im unable to 
provide this information to Mrs D as Barclaycards internal systems are commercially 
sensitive. But I can assure her I have seen the evidence that they did send this text when 
they said they did. Thats not to say Mrs D didnt receive this message. Ive noted the 
strength of feeling that she has regarding this issue, so I dont doubt what shes said. 
But, as I mentioned in my provisional decision, Barclaycards system shows SMS message 
sent successfully. I asked Barclaycard whether the messages from the system were
automatically generated by the system, which they confirmed that they were, so I cant see
that human error would be why Mrs D didnt receive the message from Barclaycard.
So although Mrs D says she didnt receive this text from Barclaycard, they did send her a
text regarding this. I cant hold Barclaycard responsible if there were mobile network issues
preventing her from receiving a text, as they have evidenced they sent this. I can also 
confirm that Mrs Ds mobile number is on the system screenshot, so Im persuaded that they 
did send the message, even if Mrs D didnt receive it.
Ive then considered what Mrs D has said regarding Barclaycard havent provided the dates 
that they sent the PINSentrys to her. I agree with her on this point to some extent. I say this 
as Barclaycards screenshot of the four PINSentrys only shows the last time they sent her 
the PINSentrys. 
But as I said in my provisional decision, While this doesnt show the dates of all of the times 
these have been sent as Barclaycards system only records the last date it was sent, 28 
June 2021, I can see that in Barclaycards final response letter to Mrs D, they said the last 
one they had sent was 10 February and they said they had put in a request on 18 March 
2021, with one of their customer service channels so that another one could be sent out.
So the above would show three of the four attempts Barclaycard made to send out the 
PINSentrys. On the balance of probabilities, it is likely that when Mrs D opened the account, 
this would be the first time that Barclaycard sent her the first PINSentry, but I cant evidence 
this either way. As Barclaycard made a business decision not to display all of the dates a 
PINSentry has been issued, its not the role of this service to say how a business should run 
their policies or processes as we are not the regulator  that is the Financial Conduct 
Authority, so Im unable to say that Barclaycard should show these on the screenshot thats 
been provided.In summary, Mrs Ds response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs D will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope she understand my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman