DRN-1327298
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited sent him the wrong phone 
following an accidental damage claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. 
Lifestyle Services Group has responded to the complaint on behalf of the insurers, Assurant 
General Insurance limited (Assurant).
What happened
Mr M bought a mobile phone directly from Samsung in October 2017. Hes provided a VAT 
receipt from Samsung and pictures of the original box which displays IMEI number ending 
277. 
Mr M says he registered this IMEI number with Assurant when taking out mobile phone 
insurance. Mr M later made a claim for accidental damage in February 2018. 
Assurant accepted the claim and decided to make repairs to Mr Ms phone and return it to 
him. Mr M says he didnt realise at the time, but when the paperwork came through from 
Assurant to repair the phone, this contained a different IMEI number ending 523. And the 
phone he received back after repair also had this IMEI number. 
As the phone worked, he assumed itd been replaced. But later that year, the phone stopped 
working. Mr M discovered itd been blacklisted by a mobile phone provider.
So, Mr M decided to complain. He said the extra digits appearing and disappearing on the 
paperwork supports that Assurant mistakenly changed the IMEI number, which led to him 
being sent the wrong phone.
Assurant looked into Mr Ms concerns. It said it had no record of ever repairing a phone with 
an IMEI number ending 277. It said the phone registered on the insurance was an IMEI 
number ending 523, and this was the device it repaired under Mr Ms claim. Assurant said it 
didnt blacklist the device. As Mr M was unhappy with Assurants response, he brought a 
complaint to this service for consideration. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He said although there was a sticker on the back of the phone which showed IMEI 
number ending 277, this differed from the IMEI number contained within the phones data, 
which showed IMEI number ending 523. And this was the phone Mr M had registered and 
Assurant repaired under the claim. 
Our investigator said as the only difference in Assurants paperwork was an additional zero 
in the IMEI number, he didnt think Mr M had demonstrated that Assurant had made an error. 
He also informed Mr M that the phone was no longer blacklisted in April 2019.  
Mr M didnt agree. He said the sticker on the back of the phone demonstrated he received a 
different phone to the one he had sent as part of the claim. He also confirmed hes now able to use the phone, but unhappy hes had to buy another whilst paying off the contract for his 
original phone. As no resolution could be met, the case was passed to me for final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr M, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Every modern phone has a unique identification serial number built into it known as an IMEI 
number. Sometimes, phone manufacturers may also display this number on the 
documentation and packaging that accompanies the phone when purchased. So whilst its 
accepted that the box, receipt and sticker show IMEI number ending 277, this doesnt 
necessarily demonstrate that the handset data also contained the same IMEI number shown 
on the documentation and packaging. 
Assurants policy terms say To help us administer your policy more effectively and to help 
simplify the claims process, you can provide us with your mobile phone details. You will 
need the following information when registering your handset:
Make.
Model.
IMEI number.
Telephone number
The IMEI number is the unique serial number for your mobile phone. You can find it by 
inputting *#06# into your mobile phone
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration here. He said he had provided a different IMEI number in 
2017 when he took the policy out. Assurant provided us with a screen shot that shows Mr M 
registered a handset with an IMEI number ending in 5230. So, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr M inputted the IMEI number in the actual phone rather than the documentation and 
packaging.  
Assurant used IMEI number ending in 5230 when sending out the repair form to Mr M. As 
the IMEI number on the repair form was identical to the IMEI number Mr M registered in 
October 2017, Im not persuaded on balance that Assurant made an error with the 
paperwork. 
Assurant said when the phone was received for repair, it used the sticker on the back of the 
phone to record the IMEI number on its repair portal. But Assurant said once it turned the 
phone on, it established a discrepancy between the IMEI number listed on the sticker, and 
the handset itself. So it changed the IMEI number on its internal records to reflect the IMEI 
number registered. 
Assurant said it carried out repairs to Mr Ms device. To be specific, it said it replaced the 
lens, display assembly, battery, back glass and keypad. Im satisfied this repair was 
completed as per the policy, as Ive seen the repair centre note to show this. And Mr M has 
not provided evidence to demonstrate otherwise. 
When Mr M received the phone back, he says he registered the new IMEI number in March 
2018 after he realised the IMEI was different. I can see a list of all devices registered on the 
policy, and a new entry was entered in March 2018 for IMEI number ending 523. But this 
new entry didnt delete or override the original entry from October 2017 which showed the 
same IMEI number with an additional zero. In my view, having carefully considered all of the 
information available, this shows on balance where the extra digit came from. And Im more persuaded that the IMEI number ending in 5230 was registered back in 2017 when the 
policy was taken out. 
Mr M said he changed the IMEI number on his account in 2018. But Assurant said it made 
the changes. Mr M asked why Assurant would update the IMEI number if it reflected the 
same number as before. But as above, Assurant only changed the entry on its repair portal, 
which is different to what Mr M is referring to. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, as his phone was blocked through 
no fault of his own. But for the reasons set out above, Im not in agreement with him that on 
balance Assurant has made an error here. And so, whilst I appreciate the information Mr M 
has sent us, I wont be requiring Assurant to do anything.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman