DRN-4053457
The complaint
Ms B complains that Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot delayed sending her the relevant 
envelopes so she could deposit a cheque.  
What happened
Ms B says she contacted Cahoot in January 2022 by phone and asked them to provide her 
with some Post Office envelopes that would allow her to deposit a cheque and receive a 
receipt with the exact date and time of the deposit. As she was very busy, calling Cahoot 
and getting the envelopes set to her home address was the best option for her. Despite 
many calls to Cahoot chasing the envelopes, they took six weeks to arrive. And when they 
did, they were the incorrect envelopes. Eventually, Ms B went to the Post Office and was 
able to get just one envelope and deposit the cheque on 5 April 2022. 
Ms B raised a complaint with Cahoot as she was unhappy with the delays. She requested 
£20 per telephone call made, as well as £50 compensation, which would bring the total to 
£280. However, Cahoot declined this and offered £50 compensation instead. This was 
because they did not feel they had made an error that caused the delays. They explained 
that they did not have the relevant envelopes in stock as they were waiting for them to be 
delivered. They felt they gave Ms B other reasonable options to deposit the cheque, so they 
felt the offer of £50 compensation was fair.
Ms B disagreed with this and referred the complaint to our service. The investigator looked 
into the complaint and felt that while B did cause a delay when it sent Ms B the incorrect 
envelopes, the other delays were outside of its control, so they agreed the £50 
compensation already paid was reasonable. And they said that as Ms B was able to spend 
time making the complaint to Cahoot, she also could have gone to a branch to collect an 
envelope and deposit the cheque. 
Ms B disagreed with the outcome. She did not think that the Investigator had covered all of 
her complaint points. And she said that just because she had time to discuss the complaint 
at a later date did not mean she had time at the beginning of the year to queue at the Post 
Office to collect the envelopes.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the £50 compensation already offered and paid is fair in the 
circumstances, and I dont direct Cahoot to take any further action to remedy the complaint. 
Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ms B has provided a detailed submission to our service in relation to this complaint and I 
appreciate her taking the time to do so. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute 
resolution service and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the points I find to be material 
to the outcome of Ms Bs complaint. This is not meant to be a discourtesy to Ms B, and I 
want to assure her I have considered everything she has submitted carefully. 
I note that Ms B requested that I telephone her prior to issuing this final decision. Having 
considered this, I did not think it was necessary considering the detailed submissions she 
had provided. 
Ive firstly considered if there were any avoidable delays cause by Cahoot. I can see from 
the contact notes on file that Cahoot explained to Ms B they did not have any of the relevant 
envelopes in stock and were waiting for these to be delivered to them. On balance, I dont 
think it would be reasonable to hold Cahoot responsible for what appears to be supply chain 
issues for the envelopes. And considering there are alternative options for customers to 
deposit cheques into their account, I dont reasonably expect Cahoot to have done more to 
try and obtain envelopes sooner. 
I note that when Ms B called, Cahoot also set out the alternative options available to her to 
deposit the cheque. This included sending the cheque via Royal Mail, getting an envelope 
directly from the Post Office or depositing the cheque in another bank account and 
transferring the funds over. And I think Cahoot has acted reasonably in suggesting these 
alternative options to Ms B. 
I accept that Ms B has said she did not want to send the cheque via Royal Mail and that she 
was too busy to queue at the Post Office when they may not have had any envelopes 
available. But I do think these were reasonable alternatives, as the Royal Mail has the option 
of recorded delivery and it was possible for Ms B to telephone the Post Office ahead of 
visiting to ensure they had envelopes available. And I can see this is what Cahoot did for her 
on 5 April 2022. 
I do think there was an unreasonable delay caused when Cahoot sent out the incorrect 
envelopes to Ms B. And I also note that she was given incorrect information that they would 
receive a delivery of envelopes soon, but this was delayed. Ive considered this delay and 
the miscommunication and I think the £50 compensation already offered and paid is in line 
with what I would have recommended in the circumstances. So, I dont direct Cahoot to 
increase this.   
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc trading as Cahoot.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman