DRN-3583634
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) provided 
him with credit he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Barclays increased the credit limit on the credit card Mr C had with them to £1,600 in 
October 2016 and again to £2,000 in January 2018.
Mr C says they were wrong to do that as the new credit wasnt affordable for him.
Barclays disagree. They say that when they increased the limit in 2016 Mr C had an 
outstanding loan and no other credit commitments on his credit file. They say that his 
performance on his credit card up to that point had been good and there were no missed 
payments on his account. They thought the credit was therefore affordable for him. Barclays 
said that when they increased Mr Cs credit limit again in 2018 his performance on his 
account had again been good and, although there was now some credit card debt listed on 
his credit file, they didnt think that was sufficient to suggest the limit increase wouldnt be 
affordable. 
Our investigator didnt agree and thought the credit was unaffordable, so the complaint has 
been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
The limit increase to £1,600 in October 2016
I think Barclays completed proportionate checks before advancing this credit. They reviewed 
Mr Cs credit card performance and obtained information from the credit reference agencies 
that also considered Mr Cs likely expenditure. There was limited credit on Mr Cs file and his 
performance on his credit card had been good. There was no evidence of financial stress on 
the credit file and I think the evidence suggested Mr C would be able to sustainably afford 
repayments.
So, I dont think the credit extended in October 2016 was extended irresponsibly.
The credit limit increase in January 2018
I dont think Barclays checks were proportionate at this point. Whilst Mr Cs performance on 
his account had been good and his credit file didnt show missed payments, I think there was 
evidence Mr C was beginning to rely on credit. In just over a year hed accrued a credit card 
debt of over £5,000 and his balance on his credit card account had risen significantly in 
December 2017 just before the new limit was advanced. I think Barclays should therefore 
have dug deeper and as Mr C banked with them it would not have been difficult to review his 
bank statements. 
The statements in the three months preceding the limit increase showed that Mr C was 
earning about £1,300 net but they showed his monthly expenditure to regularly be around 
that amount. Given his spiralling credit commitment and his recent increased card activity I 
dont think it was wise for Barclays to increase his indebtedness any further. I dont think 
they should have provided this credit limit increase as I think the evidence suggested it 
wouldnt be something Mr C could sustainably repay.
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclays should have approved the credit limit increase from £1,600 to 
£2,000 I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges above £1,600. However, 
Mr C has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he should pay 
that back. Therefore, Barclays should:
1. Refund the interest and charges associated with the January 2018 limit increase.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount 
calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, ensure that it isnt 
subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges. But if Step 2 leads to a
positive balance, the amount in question should be given back to Mr C and 8% 
simple interest* should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges associated with the January 2018 limit increase.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman