The complaint
Mr S complains that Coverwise Ltd mis-sold him a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a travel insurance policy through Coverwise, an insurance broker. The policy 
was underwritten by an insurance company, which Ill refer to as A. This complaint focuses 
solely on Coverwises actions. Theres a separate complaint about As actions.
While he was on holiday, Mr Ss camcorder was stolen so he made a claim on his policy. Mr 
S says A settled the claim for less than it should have but A explained there was a single 
item limit of £200 and so it had settled the claim fairly.
Mr S didnt agree and complained to Coverwise, saying it had mis-sold him the policy as it 
didnt cover him for what he needed. He said he was told single items would be covered for 
a minimum of £200 and was told specifically his camcorder would be covered on a new for 
old basis.
Unhappy with Coverwises response he brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
concluded that the policy hadnt been mis-sold and that the single item limit of £200 had 
been made clear to Mr S.
Mr S asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
The FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook explains the responsibilities placed 
on insurance brokers when dealing with consumers. It requires them to provide information 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. So Ill be considering Mr Ss complaint with that in 
mind together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
The first thing I considered was the call during which Mr S bought the policy from Coverwise. 
Ive listened very carefully to this call. 
Mr S says he was told the single item limit was a minimum of £200 and that his camcorder 
would be covered on a new for old basis. I heard neither of these things during the call.
The agent laid out clearly the key elements of cover under the policy, including the £200 
single item limit. Mr S queried this as he wasnt sure if the agent had said the limit was £250 
DRN-1281954or £200. The agent repeated that the limit was £200 and Mr S acknowledged this. There was 
no reference to the camcorder specifically or to cover on a new for old basis.
So Im satisfied the agent explained the key elements of cover clearly during the call.
Ive then gone on to consider the documentation that was sent to Mr S after the purchase of 
the policy. Ive looked at this carefully and under the section Significant features and 
benefits, Section D states the single item limit is £200 with a £50 excess. 
So, Im satisfied the documentation makes it clear the single item limit is £200.
It also explains Mr S can cancel the policy without charge within 14 days of taking it out. He 
could have taken advantage of this if hed been unhappy with the terms of the policy after he 
received the full details. 
In summary, Im satisfied Coverwise has provided Mr S with information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. So I wont be upholding the complaint or asking Coverwise to do any 
more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman