DRN-4185462
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs H have complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
incorrectly set up their decreasing term life assurance policy to include a benefit they didnt 
request.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs H took out life assurance through their bank in 2006. They took out waiver of 
premium benefit at the same time. Mr G complained on behalf of himself and Mrs H that they 
didnt want this benefit (he thought it was payment protection insurance) and would like it 
removed and the premium refunded. When L&G didnt uphold the complaint, Mr G referred it 
here.
Our investigator didnt conclude that L&G had done anything wrong. Mr G appealed. As no 
agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
I apologise for the time taken to reach this final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G didnt sell the policy to Mr G and Mrs H, they took it out through their bank and 
the sale was non-advised. But the regulations in force did require L&G to give them 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position 
where they could make an informed choice about the policies they were buying.
Ive looked carefully at the documentation that Mr G and Mrs H were sent to see if 
the policy and benefits that they were purchasing were made clear. I appreciate that 
Mr G has said he wanted a simple life insurance paying the minimum premium 
available and nothing more. But I find the documents they were sent do clearly show 
what waiver of premium benefit is, and that it had been selected by Mr G and Mrs H.
Mr G says he wasnt aware what the cost of the waiver of premium benefit was until 
October 2022. He says he didnt receive any correspondence or an itemised cost of 
premium and if he had he wouldnt have agreed to it. However, Ive seen the 
quotation prepared for Mr G and Mrs H. It does state that the monthly premium 
includes the cost of waiver benefit of £1.11. 
L&G also sent Mr G and Mrs H a Confirmation of Information Declaration form setting 
out what had been applied for. This included, under Additional benefits - Terminal 
illness cover at no extra charge - Waiver of Premium (Both Applicants). Im satisfied 
that Mr G and Mrs H received this as Mr G made some amendments, signed and 
returned the form. L&G wrote to Mr G in response advising that the amendments had 
been made and to keep the endorsement with his policy documents as evidence of 
the amendment.
I recognise that Mrs G and Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision, and Im sorry it 
doesnt bring them more welcome news. But in all the circumstances I dont find that 
L&G did anything wrong. It has provided a benefit that was applied for. I also dont 
find that there was any trickery or dishonesty on its part. This being so there is no 
basis for me to require L&G to refund the premiums paid for the waiver benefit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman