DRN-2849839
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) failed to lift a block on his bank account promptly. 
Hes also unhappy with the service he received while the block was in place.
What happened
On 20 January 2021, TSB blocked Mr Ts account while it carried out a review. When Mr T 
called TSB to find out why his account had been blocked, he says he had to make numerous 
phone calls and was passed around to different departments. He was then asked to submit 
information for TSB to consider on two separate occasions, but says TSB took too long to 
review the information he sent them. Mr T says TSB only sent him email updates, and that 
he couldnt access those emails as they were protected.
On 1 February 2021, TSB unblocked Mr Ts account and Mr T withdrew the account 
balance. TSB acknowledged the frustration Mr T had experienced and paid him £50 in 
compensation, plus a further £6 to cover the cost of the phone calls he made. Mr T though 
remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at TSBs actions and felt it hadnt done anything wrong. She said it 
had told Mr T how long its review would take, and completed the review in that timeframe. 
She agreed Mr T hadnt received good service when he called TSB, but she felt TSB had 
done enough to put things right by reimbursing him for his phone charges, and paying him a 
further £50 in compensation.
Ultimately, she felt TSB was entitled to carry out the review, and that it completed the same 
in a reasonable time frame. So she didnt ask TSB to do anything more to put things right for 
Mr T. 
Mr T didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T doesnt dispute that TSB was entitled to block his account. His concerns relate to the 
length of time the block was in place, and the service he received during the block. Our 
investigator set out Mr Ts concerns in her opinion to Mr T and in a follow-up email she sent, 
so I wont repeat everything in detail here.
Ive looked at the evidence TSB has submitted to explain why it blocked Mr Ts account, and 
what actions it took while it reviewed the account. Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if 
TSB acted promptly or caused any unnecessary delays. Finally, Ive listened to what Mr T 
has said about the service he received, and why he thinks TSB treated him unfairly. Having 
done so, Im sorry to say that I wont be upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. The checks a bank needs to carry out during such a 
review vary, depending on the individual circumstances of each case.
In Mr Ts case, TSB asked him to provide information in order for it to complete its review. 
TSB wasnt satisfied with what Mr T had sent in, so it asked for more information, which Mr T 
promptly supplied. Because of the nature of the obligations banks have to comply with, 
completing a review isnt always a simple process. TSB is entitled to request further 
information in order to satisfy itself and comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Doing so isnt unusual in such circumstances and I havent seen anything to suggest TSBs 
requests were out of the ordinary.
I understand Mr T was frustrated by what he perceived to be a lack of progress, and the 
service he received when he called TSB. But TSB isnt obliged to disclose details of its 
review to Mr T, and Im satisfied it gave him sufficient information when it told him how long 
its review would take. TSB must have a reasonable time to process the information supplied, 
and, having reviewed all of the evidence both parties have provided, Im satisfied there were 
no unnecessary or unreasonable delays on TSBs part.
I know Mr T feels very strongly about his complaint, and I understand the process caused 
him distress. But Im satisfied TSB acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked the account. And that it completed its review in a reasonable 
time. Despite this, TSB acknowledged Mr Ts frustration and paid him £56 in compensation. 
So while I understand why Mr T remains upset, I havent seen anything that would justify a 
recommendation for TSB to pay further compensation, or take any further action to put 
things right for Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman