DRN-1343989
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wrongly repossessed a car he bought 
under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
In May 2019 Santander received notification from the police that the car had been seized 
due to it being driven without insurance by a third party. Santander recovered the car from 
the police.
Mr A advised Santander that the third-party driver was his brother and provided insurance 
documents showing that his brother was a named driver on his policy. Mr A also provided 
the V5 which showed that the car was registered in his brothers name.
Santander advised Mr A that it wouldnt return the car to him because the terms and 
conditions of the agreement had been broken. It said it would sell the car at auction and use 
the proceeds to clear the balance under the agreement.
Mr A advised Santander that there were personal belongings in the car. Santander made 
enquiries of the police and the collections agents but both confirmed that there were no 
items in the car.
Since originally investigating Mr As complaint, Santander has offered to release the car and 
continue with the agreement on the condition that the car is registered in Mr As name and 
that he brings his payments up to date.
Mr A wasnt happy with Santanders response and complained to this service. He wants to 
reject the car and receive a refund of his payments.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought the offer by Santander was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been told by Santander that if he could prove the car was 
insured, they would release it to him. He thinks the agreement was terminated unfairly 
because Santander didnt obtain a court order to repossess the car. Mr A said the dealership 
had accepted responsibility for incorrectly registering the car in his brothers name. He also 
believes that his personal possessions were in the car when Santander collected it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the car was in someone elses possession when the police 
impounded it. The police impounded the car because the third party couldnt prove (at the 
time) that he was insured to drive it. I appreciate that valid insurance documents were 
subsequently provided but by this tie the car had already been collected by Santander.
I dont think I need to consider whether the car was correctly impounded. This is a matter for 
Mr A to take further with the police if appropriate. 
What I need to consider is whether Santander needed a court order to recover the car. And 
whether it acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr A has made the point that Santander told him that if he provided proof that the car was 
insured, it would return it. When Mr A provided insurance details, he also provided 
documents which showed he wasnt the registered owner of the car. The terms and 
conditions of the agreement  say that the registered owner must be the same as the person 
who has been accepted for finance.
I appreciate that the dealership has accepted responsibility for registering the car in the 
wrong name. However, I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for this error. Further, I think 
it would have been obvious to Mr A that he wasnt the registered owner and he shouldve 
taken steps to have the paperwork amended. I think he had a reasonable time from the 
inception of finance to do this.
Mr A has made the point that under the CCA 1974, as he had paid more than one third of 
the cost of the car, Santander couldnt recover possession without a court order. But I this 
case,  Santander didnt recover the car from Mr A. It recovered the car from the police. 
Although it subsequently came to light that Mr A had breached the agreement , Im satisfied 
that at the time the car was recovered, the reason for recovery was because it had been 
impounded by the police for being driven by a third party without insurance.
In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable of Santander to take possession of the car. 
And because it recovered the car from the police, I dont think it needed a court order to do 
so.
I do think that subsequent events have led to confusion. But taking all of the available 
information into account, I dont think Santander has done anything wrong. 
Even if Mr A was unhappy about the circumstances in which the car was recovered, I think 
Santander made him a reasonable offer. It offered to return the car and reinstate the finance 
agreement if Mr A paid his arrears and transferred legal ownership of the car into his name. I 
think this was a reasonable offer because Mr A was liable for the outstanding payments 
under the agreement and was required under the term and conditions to be the registered 
owner.
I understand that Mr A is disappointed about his personal possessions. Santander has made 
relevant enquiries but no items were found in the car. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that Santander has deliberately or negligently disposed of the items.
I understand that the situation has caused distress to Mr A. But I dont think that Santander 
has done anything wrong. So I wont be asking it to pay compensation. I cant see that Mr A 
has any grounds to reject the car so I wont be asking Santander to allow him to do this.
Mr A has recently asked whether Santanders offer remains open for acceptance. But he 
says he doesnt think he should have to make payments for the time the car has been out of 
his possession. Santander has said that the offer stands but that Mr A is required to bring 
the account up to date. I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to ask Mr A to do this as 
hes liable to make payments under the agreement.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman