DRN-3823611
The complaint
E, a limited company, has complained Barclays Bank PLC didnt manage the business 
change of address properly. This left E unaware of its financial liability.
E is represented in its complaint by its director, Mr J. Ill refer to him throughout for ease.
What happened
Mr J complained to Barclays in 2021 that theyd failed to update E about the status of Es 
commercial credit card account. This left him unaware that direct debit payments had been 
made after 2015 when hed believed Es account was closed. Mr J also struggled with 
passing Barclays security for Es credit card to resolve what had happened.
Barclays told E there remained an outstanding balance on the credit card of £1,342.77 in 
August 2021 after theyd credited £100 to compensate for the service E received.
Mr J remained unhappy and brought Es complaint to the ombudsman service. In the interim, 
Barclays closed the credit card account and passed the debt to a third party for collection.
After reviewing the information, our investigator found no evidence E had closed the credit 
card account or changed Es address with the credit card provider. He also felt that £200 
compensation which had been credited to the account was sufficient for the service issues E 
had had.
Still dissatisfied Mr J has asked an ombudsman to consider Es complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly its worth saying Mr J doesnt dispute Barclays commercial credit card area wasnt 
informed of Es change of address. In fact Barclays records show Es revised address was 
updated on 28 June 2021. Barclays Bank  who held Es commercial bank account  was 
informed of the change of address and altered its records accordingly. The bank didnt 
however inform the commercial credit card entity of this amendment.
In addition Mr J accepts that the two transactions in September 2015 totalling £1,930 are 
genuine and he can recall making them. Although a direct debit repayment was set up on 
the credit card account, this took the minimum payment only so it would always take a 
reasonable period for the credit card debt to be repaid in full.
Mr J cancelled the direct debit in 2021. This resulted in Barclays closing the account and 
passing the outstanding debt to a third party for collection.
Like our investigator, Ive reviewed all the records Barclays and Mr J have shared with us. 
There is a debt  which Mr J accepts belongs to E  which could have been repaid earlier if 
Barclays were aware of Es revised address. This would have ensured statements and 
correspondence would have gone to the right address and Mr J could have made a decision 
to repay the debt earlier (and therefore save interest costs).
However there is a requirement when a company or individual changes address that they 
ensure financial providers are aware of the new address.
Im aware of Mr Js strong belief that Barclays Bank and the commercial credit card entity 
are one and the same. His notification (or in fact that done by Companies House) to 
Barclays Bank should have meant the credit card company would update their records.
This isnt the case. And I dont agree with Mr J this is how it should have worked. The 
Barclays businesses are two different entities despite sharing a corporate group structure. 
The responsibility was with E. There is no evidence E took that step.
Im aware of the difficulties Mr J had in getting this sorted with Barclays. That stress and 
annoyance cant have helped how he feels about the way he was treated. However Barclays 
made two payments of £100 and I think thats about the right level of compensation for what 
happened.
Ive read Mr Js detailed submissions on Es behalf carefully but overall dont believe it would 
be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Es complaint against Barclays 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman