DRN-2126322
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their claim for 
storm damage.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P were joint policy holders of buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. Mr 
P has dealt with the complaint so, for ease, Ill refer only to him throughout my decision.
Mr P made a claim for damage to his roof caused by a storm a few days earlier. Ageas sent 
an assessor to inspect the damage. In between Mr P reporting the damage and the assessor 
attending, there was another storm just a week after the first one.
Ageas reported that the damage was caused by wear and tear and it declined the claim. It 
also gave notice of policy cancellation because the assessor reported that the property was 
in poor condition with little ongoing maintenance.
Mr P complained because he didnt think the property was damaged before the storm. He 
thought Ageas should cover the cost of repair to the roof.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim because the report and photos clearly showed damage which wouldve 
been present before the storm.
Mr P didnt agree and complained that the damage has still not been repaired.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps claim was for damage to his roof. Tiles came away during a storm allowing rain to 
enter his home, causing further damage. Mr Ps policy covers him for storm damage, but 
Ageas declined his claim. 
When looking at a claim for storm damage, I must consider whether there was a storm; 
whether the damage is typical of that caused by a storm, and whether its likely that the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. If Im satisfied that these three conditions are met, 
I will look at whether Ageas fairly declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
Theres no dispute that there was a storm  it was a named and widely publicised storm. Mr 
P reported the loss of roof tiles and I dont think theres any dispute that this type of damage 
is typical of that caused by a storm. So the final question is whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. I dont think it was.
Ive looked at the report Ageas provided which includes photos of Mr Ps roof and the inside 
of his home. He hasnt provided a similar type of report or any photos, so Ive relied on the 
assessors report for evidence of the damage. Its clear that there is damage throughout Mr 
Ps home, but the extent of it indicates a much longer term problem than a one-off storm, or 
even the two storms within a week. The reason for this is that the walls are discoloured, 
paper is peeling away, the plasterwork looks worn in places, suspended ceilings are 
discoloured and broken in places, there is mould on the top and lower walls, and all rooms 
are affected. The report states that around six tiles are dislodged on the roof at the rear of 
the property, with no evidence of significant storm damage to the front. The photos show that 
many of the roof tiles look worn around the edges and the guttering is defective which has 
caused water to enter the property. 
Overall, its clear that the property, which is around 100 years old, hasnt been maintained as 
well as it mightve been. It would be difficult to tell what was new damage and what was 
already there. Ive looked at the terms of the policy and the general exclusions say that loss 
is not covered if caused by:
13. Wear and Tear
Loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens 
gradually.
14. General Exceptions
Any loss, damage or liability caused by or arising from:
an incident that does not arise from one identifiable event
lack of maintenance
So, while I dont doubt that the storm wouldve added to the problems, I think its likely the 
damage was caused mainly by wear and tear and the storm simply highlighted the damage. 
I think it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim, in line with the policy, based on the amount 
of wear and tear and the general lack of maintenance evident.
I understand it was a few weeks before Ageas sent an assessor to inspect Mr Ps property. 
He thinks the damage wouldve just got worse during that time. I agree that if the weather 
conditions remained wet and windy, more damage mightve been caused to Mr Ps home. 
However, the delay was not long enough for the extent of the damage visible in the photos to 
have occurred. I can see that Ageas advised Mr P to have some temporary repairs done to 
his roof when he first reported the matter. It seems he didnt follow that advice, although I 
understand that was due to financial commitments. I cant reasonably hold Ageas 
responsible for any of the damage which mightve been caused by any delay because it 
gave Mr P advice on how to minimise the impact, whether or not he was able to follow it.
Mr P is unhappy that Ageas cancelled his policy giving him little notice. I can see that Ageas 
explained this to Mr P. It decided that because of the wear and tear and the general lack of 
maintenance to Mr Ps home, it didnt consider the risk one it could cover. Ageas does not 
have to offer a policy if it considers the risk too great, and its clear that was the case here. I 
dont think it did anything wrong by letting Mr P know it no longer wanted to provide cover for 
him.
In summary, I sympathise with the position Mr P has found himself in. I can understand that 
it must be a worry. However, given the wear and tear evident in his home, and the lack of 
general maintenance, I think it was fair for Ageas to decline his claim in line with the terms of 
the policy. I also think that it was reasonable for Ageas to cancel the policy, deciding not to 
cover the risk posed by Mr Ps property for the same reasons. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman