DRN-2898037
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that First Data Europe Limited trading as First 
Data didnt dispute a chargeback on its behalf despite the strong evidence it provided.
S is represented in bringing this complaint by its director, Ms L. 
What happened
S is a merchant. In August 2020, a chargeback for £998.40 was raised against S in relation 
to a booking for accommodation abroad between 21 and 28 March 2020.
S submitted its defence in early September however First Data made the decision to accept 
the chargeback without submitting the defence on behalf of S. 
S account was debited for the chargeback in September. First Data informed S of the 
outcome during a call in early October and confirmed this information in writing at the end of 
October. 
S complained to First Data, but they didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms L brought S 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into matters and said he didnt think First Data had acted unfairly in 
accepting the chargeback, but he thought First Datas communication couldve been more 
timely and supportive. So, he recommended that First Data made a payment of £100 to S in 
recognition of the inconvenience they had caused to S.
Ms L was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look at S complaint, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
 
Ms L said S never had the opportunity to fight the chargeback due to First Datas 
miscommunication about the chargeback process and their incorrect setting of the deadline 
for providing S defence. 
Ms L would like First Data to refund the transaction in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
Ill begin by noting that this complaint is about the merchant acquirer, First Data. So, Ive 
looked at the actions of First Data and whether they acted fairly and reasonably, within the 
context of the merchant agreement and card scheme rules in their role as an acquirer, once 
the chargeback was raised. Im not going to make any findings on whether the chargeback 
should have been raised as that is the responsibility of the card issuer.
Ms L said that First Data didnt give S adequate time to defend the chargeback. She told us 
that by the time S submitted its defence it was too late for First Data to dispute the 
chargeback as it fell outside of the time limits of the relevant card scheme. 
The time period in which to defend the chargeback begins on the day the card issuer notifies 
the acquiring bank. I can confirm that First Data wrote to S on that same day to notify it of 
the chargeback and explain what action it needed to take. Ms L didnt receive this letter until 
six days after it was posted, and while I dont dispute the fact that this shortened the 
timeframe in which she needed to gather information and submit S defence, I cant hold 
First Data responsible for postal delays.
In addition, Ms L did manage to submit a detailed response, so I think it is unlikely that she 
wouldve submitted any additional or alternative information had the letter arrived a few days 
earlier. 
I therefore dont agree that First Data made a mistake with the timelines or that S wasnt 
given enough time to provide their defence.
However, First Data made the decision to accept the chargeback and not submit a defence 
on S behalf. So, I need to decide whether I think First Datas actions were fair and 
reasonable.
First Datas Merchant Agreement Operating Guide explains that the information provided by 
the merchant (S) to defend the chargeback needs to be sufficient to warrant a reversal of the 
chargeback.
The basis of S defence was that the accommodation remained open and services were able 
to be provided. Despite this, S sent emails to its customers advising them to contact their 
travel insurance provider to claim for their accommodation and travel costs due to 
government guidance at the time that said you shouldnt travel abroad unless it was for an 
essential reason.
First Data thought these emails indicated that S had cancelled the holiday, and this was part 
of the reason they decided to accept the chargeback and not dispute it on behalf of S. In 
addition, as the cardholder hadnt shown up at the accommodation, no services were 
provided to them and the cardholder would remain entitled to raise a chargeback regardless 
of whether or not they had travel insurance.
Given these concerns, it appears doubtful that there would have been a successful 
challenge to the chargeback. So, I dont find that First Data treated S unfairly in these 
circumstances as it seems unlikely the challenge would have succeeded, and First Data 
were not obliged to defend the chargeback in any case.
Nevertheless, I dont think First Datas communication with S was timely and I think they 
couldve been clearer in explaining the reasons why they accepted the chargeback without 
defending it. There were inconsistencies in the information provided to Ms L over the phone about whether the chargeback had been contested and there was a long delay in confirming 
the status of the chargeback to S in writing.
As a result of the inconvenience this poor communication caused, Im asking First Data to 
make a payment of £100 to S.
Conclusion
I know Ms L will be disappointed by my decision, however, as Ive explained, I can only look 
at the actions of First Data and although I can see there were issues with how they 
communicated with S, I dont think they acted unfairly or unreasonably in not defending the 
chargeback.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require First Data Europe Limited 
trading as First Data to pay £100 to S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman