DRN-3153812
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund money 
she was tricked into transferring to a fraudster.
What happened
On 17 October 2020, Mrs M was contacted by someone claiming to represent an online 
retailer. The caller said Mrs M was eligible to receive a payment from them. But, after Mrs 
M agreed to receive the payment, the caller claimed theyd paid her significantly more than 
intended in error.
Over the course of a very long call, Mrs M was persuaded to make a payment of £20,000 
in order to repay the money shed received. Unfortunately for Mrs M, no money had 
actually been paid into her account and she had been speaking to a fraudster.
Mrs M realised shed been the victim of a scam soon afterwards and contacted Virgin 
Money at around 3pm that day. Virgin Money asked her to call back the following Monday 
to raise a fraud claim. It contacted the bank which received Mrs Ms money the same day, 
but no funds remained. It declined to refund Mrs M on the basis that shed made the 
payments herself and they were not particularly out of character for her account.
Mrs M was unhappy and referred the matter to our service. She felt Virgin Money were 
slow to try and recover the payment she made and that she, as the victim of a crime, 
should be refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Though they were sympathetic to Mrs Ms 
circumstances they didnt think that, considering her previous account usage, the payment 
she made ought to have been of concern to Virgin Money. They were also satisfied that all 
of Mrs Ms funds had been removed from the account which received them before she 
reported the fraud.
Mrs M disagreed, in summary she said:
- The disputed transaction did stand out as being unusual as previous 
large transactions had been made in her own name
- Virgin Money suggested they were aware the fraudster had control of her 
computer at the time the payment was made
- It was unclear whether Virgin Money had approached the bank which received 
her funds to see whether theyd been able to recover any of it
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs M, and I can understand why she feels that 
she, as the innocent party, shouldnt lose out. But having thought very carefully about 
Virgin Moneys actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to 
leave her account. I also dont think any action by Virgin Money after the payment was 
made could have led to it being returned,
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs S when she made a transfer to a fraudster and when she reported 
the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Like our investigator, I note that Mrs M has made similar or larger payments in the last year. 
While they dont take place very regularly (with only one in the previous six months), they 
do take place frequently enough for this particular transaction to appear unremarkable. 
And, other than the fact this payment went to a new payee (the recipient of which would 
have been unknown to Virgin Money), theres little else to suggest it ought to have been 
concerned  the payment went to another UK bank account and left a substantial balance 
on the account. I note Mrs Ms comments about whether it would have been apparent to 
Virgin Money that the fraudsters had access to her computer through an application. While I 
dont doubt this is whats happened, its not clear how Virgin Money would have been 
aware of this. It denies there is any evidence of remote access to her device and the 
technical evidence Ive seen doesnt show this either.
So, overall, I dont think the payment should have alerted Virgin Money to the possibility that 
Mrs M was at risk of financial harm from fraud.
I also agree that Virgin Money ought to have acted more quickly when Mrs M contacted it. But, the bank which received Mrs Ms funds has provided evidence that the money 
was removed from that account before Virgin Money could reasonably have informed it 
of the scam. So, the delay in doing so, did not impact whether the money could be 
recovered. From the recipient account the transactions were spent in such a way that 
they could not be recovered. In any case, the actions of the bank which received the 
money are outside of the scope of this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs M, but I cant agree Virgin Money are 
responsible for her loss and neither do I think any actions it could have taken once it 
was aware of the scam could have led to the recovery of her money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman