DRN-1690265
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mr Hs Barclaycard account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with what our adjudicator said. 
Mr Hs main complaint is that Barclays failed to explain PPI costs and benefits clearly so he 
wasnt able to make an informed decision about whether he wanted to pay extra for the 
policy. He told us that as his employer offered him full sick pay he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy if he had understood what the insurance covered.
Mr H has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons.
Mr H made it clear on the application form he completed that he wanted to take out the 
policy by ticking to have PPI. Mr H left blank the tick box for another account feature offered 
that he didnt take out. And I think Mr H wouldve understood that he couldve left the PPI tick 
box blank as well if he hadnt wanted to have the cover. So I think that Barclays made Mr H 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself if he wanted to have PPI. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about 
what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Mr H was eligible for the policy. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied in Mr Hs case when he took out his credit card. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected his decision to take it out. 
Mr H had good sick pay entitlement through work. He told us that he wouldve got full sick 
pay for 6 months followed by 6 months' half pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid more than his minimum credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr H mightve also had some 
additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as hed only have got half his usual pay after 
6 months off work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Hs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
The policy couldve cleared the outstanding balance on his credit card if he claimed for the 
full 12 months. 
Mr H doesnt appear to have had any significant other means he couldve relied on to pay his 
Barclaycard if he wasnt working. He mentioned that his wife was in full-time, secure 
employment. But relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I think the policy offered him useful cover. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mr H made a claim. 
But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually cost on a month to 
month basis, Mr H chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to 
have wanted it. 
The policy appears to have been affordable for him when he took it out  and he couldve 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to keep paying for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr H wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman