DRN-3741435
The complaint
Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly allowed a third-party to debit his current 
account despite his instructions to the contrary. Mr Gs also unhappy with the service he 
received from Barclays once he raised the issue and complained.
What happened
Barclays cancelled a continuous payment authority (CPA) to stop a third-party, which Ill 
refer to as R, from taking money from Mr Gs account on his instruction. Several months 
later, R took more than £1,400 from Mr Gs account using debit card details it already held 
(as opposed to a CPA). 
When Mr G raised the transaction with Barclays, it ultimately replied that hed done so later 
than 120 days from the date it occurred which was the time limit set by the card scheme to 
initiate a chargeback claim. Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong in failing to stop R 
from taking the payment as it wasnt collected by the CPA (which had been cancelled as 
previously agreed).
Barclays accepted that it had made mistakes, not least after the transaction occurred. These 
included incorrectly raising a fraud claim which led to Mr G being temporarily credited the 
amount in full before removing the amount again, leaving the account overdrawn. Barclays 
also incorrectly told Mr G it could dispute the payment for him. As compensation for its 
errors, Barclays offered to pay him £100.   
Unhappy with Barclayss decision and offer, Mr G brought his complaint to us. He said he 
incurred account charges and interest through no fault of his own when the credit was taken 
back. And that Barclays should pay him the relevant sum back in full as well as more 
compensation for the anxiety caused. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. They felt Barclays hadnt failed in allowing the payment to be collected by R. They 
also believed Barclays couldnt have done any more regarding a chargeback claim given it 
was made aware too late as per the card schemes rules. The investigator thought Barclays 
was entitled to debit the amount from Mr Gs account given the lack of contact from him in 
response to a letter it sent to him regarding fraud on the account.  
Mr G remained unhappy. He said, among other things, that he wasnt aware he needed to 
contact Barclays once it wrote to him (incorrectly) regarding fraud as he didnt receive the 
letter. He said the lack of information from Barclays about making a chargeback claim and 
the temporary credit and subsequent debit had left him out of pocket by more than £1,400. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by the investigator, it was passed to me to review 
afresh. I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision. I found that Barclayss 
actions hadnt on balance led to Mr G losing out on a chargeback claim. And that it was 
entitled to take back the money it had temporarily credited to his account, as it had been 
credited in error in the first place.
But I felt Mr G should be compensated for any account charges, fees and interest incurred 
resulting from the temporary credit and its subsequent removal. I also felt Barclays should 
pay Mr G an additional £100 as compensation for the upset and frustration caused by the 
poor service hed received.   
I asked the parties to respond with any further information before I reconsidered the 
complaint and reached a final decision. 
Barclays said it noted the contents of the provisional decision and had nothing else to add. 
Mr G didnt reply despite being sent a reminder about the deadline for responses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The chain of events that led to this complaint effectively started when R debited money from 
Mr Gs account. I understand that Mr G disputes that Rs entitled to that money, but I cant 
see that Barclays was at fault for it being taken. While Barclays agreed to cancel the CPA, R 
didnt take the amount via that route. Instead, it seems R took the money using debit card 
details it already held. I dont see any reason why Barclays ought to have known Mr G 
wasnt aware of the payment or that he didnt agree to it being made. 
I note that Barclays referred to a possible claim for chargeback via the card scheme, but that 
Mr G notified it of the payment too late. Barclays has provided evidence to show the claim 
needed to be made within 120 days of the transaction taking place. And I can see that Mr G 
didnt raise the issue with Barclays until five months later. So, Im satisfied that the claim was 
made too late.
Even if I thought Barclays was at fault for the chargeback claim being made too late (which I 
dont), I havent seen enough evidence to show a claim made in time would have been 
successful. So, its difficult for me to find, on balance, that Mr G lost out because of this.   
Thats not to say that Barclays handled all other aspects of the situation well. For example, 
Mr G explained to Barclays what had happened regarding payment taken by R over the 
phone. Despite that, Barclays chose to proceed on the basis that Mr G had experienced 
fraud. It followed up the call by writing to Mr G to confirm his card had been cancelled and 
asking him to provide certain further information. The letter went on to say that, if the 
information wasnt received within the next 10 working days, any temporary credit for the 
disputed payments would be debited back from his account.  
Mr G says he didnt see the letter, although Im satisfied Barclays sent it to his then current 
address  or at least to what it had reasonable grounds to believe was his current address. 
Either way, we know the amount was temporarily credited to Mr Gs account and that he 
moved it to a savings account soon after (he initially said he spent it but later changed his 
testimony on this point). When, on expiry of the 10 working days, Barclays hadnt received 
the information it had requested from Mr G in its letter, it took the amount back, leaving his 
account overdrawn. 
I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for a correctly addressed letter going astray 
once sent. However, I can see how the letter Barclays sent could have caused confusion 
even if Mr G had seen it, because it referred to fraud when he hadnt alleged hed been 
defrauded. Had Mr G seen the letter I think it likely hed have contacted Barclays to question why it was treating the matter as fraud. Its possible that, at that stage, the situation would 
have been clarified to the extent that any temporary credit already made could have been 
debited back from the account with Mr Gs knowledge. 
That didnt happen because Mr G didnt contact Barclays within 10 working days. Equally, I 
think some responsibility rests with Barclays. Although the letter was clear as to the 
consequences of not replying in time, given the amount in question was relatively high, 
Barclays could easily have contacted Mr G to remind him of the need to respond to the letter 
by the deadline. Such action may well have prompted a response from him even if the letter 
had gone astray. 
So, while I dont think Barclays needs to re-credit the amount as it never owed him that 
money, I do understand how its actions may have led Mr G to incur account fees, charges 
and interest he wouldnt otherwise have incurred. Thats because I understand his account 
wouldnt have gone overdrawn had Barclays not incorrectly dealt with the matter as fraud as 
it did. I think Barclays should compensate Mr G for any relevant charges etc. incurred due to 
its actions.
Although Barclays has offered Mr G £100 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused him, I dont think thats sufficient in the circumstances. As Ive 
said, I dont believe Mr G was entitled to the temporary credit from Barclays. But it gave him 
the expectation for a time that he was entitled to it, and he acted on that expectation by 
moving it to a savings account when I gather he was already in financial difficulty due to 
being out of work. In addition, Barclays confused matters for Mr G on more than one 
occasion along the way, for example by incorrectly leading him to believe it could dispute the 
payment collected by R on his behalf. 
Taking everything into account, including whats happened since I issued my provisional 
decision, Im still satisfied that Barclays should pay Mr G £100 in addition to the £100 it 
previously offered, making a total of £200 for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. 
Putting things right
I require Barclays to: 
Reimburse Mr G for any fees, interest or charges incurred resulting from the 
temporary credit being removed from his account and that left it overdrawn; and 
Pay Mr G a total of £200 (including the £100 already offered) as compensation for 
the impact of the poor service hes received.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right for Mr G as 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman