DRN-3123765
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams Mastercard (NewDay Ltd) 
incorrectly recorded he had missed payments on his account even though he was granted a 
payment holiday.  
What happened
Mr G says he tried to carry out a balance transfer with a lender but this was declined as 
there was adverse information on his credit file. Mr G then checked his credit file and noted 
NewDay Ltd had reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) that he had missed 
payments despite agreeing to a three-month payment holiday. So, Mr G complained. 
NewDay Ltd responded and said they could see Mr G already had a payment holiday but 
contacted their Collections Department in July 2020 to ask for a payment holiday extension 
and this was confirmed with him and a payment holiday was agreed until October. They 
said, due to delays by their Collections Department, the payment holiday wasnt applied to 
Mr Gs account until later in July  this being after the previous extension period had expired. 
This meant they reported late payments on his credit file. NewDay Ltd apologised and 
explained they had asked for all adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file to be 
removed. They also offered £135 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. She thought NewDay Ltds offer to put things 
right was reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to do anything further. Mr G disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided NewDay Ltds offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Mr G will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr G. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. NewDay Ltd have admitted they got things wrong when they didnt apply the agreed 
payment holiday extension in time and this led to Mr Gs credit file showing arrears for three 
months. The only issue I have to decide is whether the steps theyve taken to put things right 
are fair and reasonable.
I think its right that NewDay Ltd should compensate Mr G for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Mr G was clearly upset and worried when he found out there 
were arrears showing on his credit file even though NewDay Ltd had agreed an extension to 
his payment holiday. The shock of learning this led Mr G to complain. 
Mr Gs concern is evident from this phone call with NewDay Ltd. So, while I think its fair and 
reasonable for NewDay Ltd to pay compensation, Ive considered the impact this error had 
on Mr G.    
The arrears were recorded for July to September 2020, but I cant say Mr G was impacted 
by this throughout the three-month period. Mr G wasnt aware of this until he says another 
lender declined his request for a balance transfer. I accept the news about there being 
adverse information on his credit file did cause shock to Mr G as it wasnt something he was 
expecting. There was then inconvenience in having to contact NewDay Ltd to find out how 
this had happened. I can see that, once NewDay Ltd were told about the issue in October, 
they did deal with the matter promptly. During the phone call, they accept they have made 
an error and take appropriate steps to raise a complaint. They give Mr G assurances about 
how they would look to put things right by correcting the information showing on his credit 
file. Then, the following day, they confirm they have taken steps to remove the adverse 
information and offer compensation of £135. So, while its clear there was initial shock, worry 
and inconvenience, I think this was over a limited period of time. And, once notified of the 
issue, NewDay Ltd acted swiftly in resolving the issue. 
Mr G says he applied for a balance transfer with another lender but this was declined on the 
basis of the adverse information recorded by NewDay Ltd. I can see NewDay Ltd have said 
they will review the compensation offer if Mr G is able to provide any evidence of the balance 
transfer declinature causing Mr G any financial loss in excess of the compensation they have 
offered. I have considered this, but I dont think I can fairly attribute the declinature solely 
down to NewDay Ltds reporting. It might well have been a factor, but I cant say it was the 
sole reason as I havent seen any evidence from the lender confirming this. I havent been 
provided with any information which shows what data the lender took into account when 
considering Mr Gs application. 
I can see Mr G says, after he found out about the adverse information on his credit file, he 
decided to take out a credit report subscription for £14.99 per month. Mr G says hes 
committed to this for six months now and doesnt feel the compensation offer is fair given he 
will end up paying nearly £90 for the subscription. I do understand why Mr G was anxious to 
view his credit report and I think its a natural response to being told it contains adverse 
information. But, as NewDay Ltd have pointed out, there are multiple companies that offer 
free access to credit reports. A free statutory credit report is available from the CRAs and 
this contains information including any missed payments  and this is what Mr G wanted to 
know. So, given this is a service which has been available for free since 2018 and wouldve 
given Mr G the information he was after, I cant fairly ask NewDay Ltd to meet the cost of the 
subscription. 
Mr Gs credit file still shows a query/dispute which has been registered by NewDay Ltd. Mr G 
says this led to another lender, firstly reducing his credit facility, and then closing his 
account. I can see our investigator has asked for evidence showing the query/dispute is the 
reason why the other lender has taken these steps but I cant see Mr G has provided this 
information. I can see Mr G says the lender has told him they dont need to give him a 
reason for closing his account. He also says they mentioned to him that he hadnt been 
using his account. 
NewDay Ltd confirm they have registered a query and explain this was done following        
Mr Gs complaint in October. They say a marker was placed on Mr Gs account to show it 
was under query but its up to the CRAs how they interpret the marker. NewDay Ltd then 
removed this marker after they issued their final response to the complaint and reapplied this 
in December following Mr Gs complaint to our service. They say this will be removed once 
the complaint has been finalised. 
NewDay Ltd have referred to guidance from one of the major CRAs regarding the use of Q 
markers and has also given us further information about the process they follow when a 
complaint is raised about an account. The guidance says Where a query exists on an 
account,the record should be flagged with the letter Q NewDay Ltd say the fact that a complaint has been referred to our service is evidence of a 
dispute - in this case - Mr G being unhappy about the adverse information reported on his 
credit file. So, taking this into account, and given the facts in this case, I cant say they have 
acted unreasonably. NewDay Ltd say this will be removed once the complaint has been 
finalised. 
In summary, I think NewDay Ltd have made an error here and I think their offer of £135 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams Mastercard have already made an offer to pay £135 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams Mastercard should pay £135 to 
Mr G, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman