DRN-2477500
The complaint
Mr M complains that the valuation of his property on behalf of Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) was too low. This meant he couldnt take out a product with a lower interest rate. 
Hed like his property to be re-valued.
What happened
Mr M had a mortgage with Halifax. In late 2019 he contacted Halifax about taking out a new 
product. He says it didnt tell him that he could have his property valued and, if the value had 
increased, might qualify for a lower interest rate product.
When Mr M found out he could do this, he contacted Halifax again. He says he wasnt told 
what the fee for the valuation would be. And he says the valuation was too low and didnt 
take into account improvements hed made to the property. Mr M says Halifaxs system is 
unfair, and it was unfair for Halifax to refuse to carry out another valuation. He also says 
Halifax made administrative errors 
Our investigator said Halifax had appointed a suitably qualified valuer and was entitled to 
rely on the valuation. Halifax made an error when it applied the valuation fee to Mr Ms 
account. It corrected his account and paid £75 compensation. The investigator said this was 
fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He wants to know more about Halifaxs valuation and appeals process, 
which he doesnt think is fair. Mr M said he suspects the mortgage adviser didnt lodge his 
appeal, and he queried why the valuer didnt visit all parts of his property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says the valuation of his property carried out on behalf of Halifax was too low. Hes 
provided higher valuations from estate agents and an online service.
I understand Mr Ms frustration here. If Halifax accepts his property is worth more, this will 
change the loan to value ratio of his mortgage, which might allow him to take out a lower 
interest rate product. But I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it instructed a valuer, 
or relied on the valuation.  
Halifax instructed a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) to value 
Mr Ms property. The valuer was suitably qualified and I think Halifax was entitled to rely on 
the valuation. 
Mr M has valuations from estate agents. But these are for a different purpose, as a guide to 
the price he could market the property for sale. Theres no guarantee his property would sell 
at these amounts. I dont think its reasonable to say that Halifax should accept these 
valuations in place of the valuation by its own suitably qualified valuer.
The valuation was carried out on behalf of Halifax, for lending purposes. Its for the valuer to 
assess what he needed to see to value the property. While Mr M says the valuer didnt go 
into all parts of his property, I dont draw any adverse inferences from this. 
I might find it reasonable to require Halifax to instruct a new valuation if there was evidence 
of an error in the valuation. Thats not the case here. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
its reasonable to require Halifax to instruct a new valuation.
Halifax says it doesnt usually offer re-valuations to customers when they take out new 
products. It relies on an index-linked valuation. It will instruct a valuation free of charge in 
certain circumstances, and it did arrange this for Mr M. As this is a free service theres no 
right of appeal. I think Halifax applied its policy fairly to Mr M.
Halifax did make administrative errors. Mr M says he was told he could appeal the valuation, 
which was wrong. The valuation was offered by Halifax without charge to Mr M, which is 
most likely why he says Halifax didnt tell him what the valuation fee was. However Halifax 
then applied the fee to Mr Ms account in error. These errors must have added to Mr Ms 
frustration. Halifax corrected Mr Ms account and paid £75 compensation. I think, in the 
circumstances, thats fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman