DRN-3938148
The complaint
Mr W complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) mis-sold him a household 
warranty insurance policy to cover a television.
What happened
Mr W agreed a policy to cover his television for breakdowns and accidental damage in late 
2017. In late 2022 he contacted D&G as the monthly premium had increased. He cancelled 
the policy, told D&G hed never wanted it and said hed been bullied into taking it out. Mr W 
requested a refund of his premiums. 
D&G didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It says it listened to the call recording when the policy 
was taken out. A limited summary of the cover was discussed, and Mr W provided his bank 
account details. D&G says he asked how he could cancel the policy and its agent confirmed 
how to do this. It says Mr W didnt contact it to cancel his policy prior to making his 
complaint. It also says he received renewal documents for each policy year. 
Mr W didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She listened to the sales call and didnt think Mr W had been 
bullied into taking the cover. She also says the policy terms were clear in how he could 
cancel. 
Mr W didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain.
Ive listened to the call when Mr W agreed to taking out a policy with D&G. The agent 
describes the features of the policy in brief and confirms the cost at £6.49 per month. During 
the call Mr W says he already has insurance. The agent describes that this cover provides a 
different service and that he can cancel at any time. Mr W confirms his agreement to take 
the policy. He then provides his bank account details for regular payments to be collected. 
Towards the end of the call the agent reads out a script. This confirms the payment 
arrangement that had been set up and that the full terms and conditions will be sent in a 
pack to Mr W. 
Mr W asks how he can cancel. The agent tells him he can email or phone, but that its 
probably better to call. Mr W responds with thatll do he thanks the agent and the call ends. 
I can see the policy documents supplied by D&G confirm the policy will renew monthly 
unless Mr W cancels it. Contact details are provided, which include a phone number, 
instructions on how to complete an online cancellation form, and a postal address. 
Ive listened to the call recording when Mr W cancelled his policy and raised his complaint. 
D&Gs agent refers to the policy documents and renewal documents that were sent to him. 
Mr W says he isnt very good with paperwork and indicates that he hasnt read this 
information. He says he hasnt benefitted from the policy and felt that he was bullied into 
taking it. Mr W also tells D&Gs agent about health conditions he suffers from.  
I thought about Mr Ws view that he was bullied into taking out this policy. Having listened to 
the sales call, I dont think he was. The call was conducted in a friendly manner. It was made 
clear to Mr W how he could cancel the policy and that he could do this at any time. Mr W 
didnt raise any concerns. He was also provided with policy documents setting out how he 
could cancel. 
Im sorry Mr W feels he hasnt benefitted from his policy. But he did benefit from the cover it 
provided, should an insured event have occurred. Having considered all of this I dont think 
D&G mis-sold this policy or that it should refund the premiums Mr W paid. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman