DRN-3019382
The complaint
Miss F complains about the shortfall balance on a finance agreement she had with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (SMF).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The hire purchase agreement explained that the vehicle remained the property of SMF until 
the final payment was made. So, Miss F was never able to sell SMFs property.
The finance agreement explained that if Miss F didnt make any repayment due under the 
agreement they may end (default) the agreement and in those circumstances Miss F would 
become liable for all sums due under it. That includes the interest on the account.
I can see that by the start of November 2020 Miss F was over three months in arrears on the 
account and in those circumstances I would think it reasonable for SMF to default the 
agreement.
Id expect SMF to be sympathetic and supportive of Miss F and to try to help her when they 
realised that she was experiencing financial difficulties.
I think they were here because I can see that rather than repossessing the vehicle they 
agreed to allow Miss F to voluntarily surrender the car. That was likely to be better financially 
as there would be no need for enforced recovery and the associated costs.
I dont think SMF forced Miss F to voluntarily surrender the car. I can see that they allowed 
her quite a bit of time to try to resolve matters through a dealership but, whilst I understand it 
must have been a distressing time for Miss F, I think the actions taken were preferable to 
letting the agreement run, the debt accumulate and the asset to continue to depreciate.
I dont think the call recordings provided demonstrate that Miss F was told to make a 
payment so that the interest wasnt added to the account. That would not have been correct 
as the full account balance remained payable in these circumstances.
So, Im afraid I dont think SMF have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman