DRN-2975344
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as N has complained that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.   
  
Mr S, a director of N, has brought the complaint on Ns behalf. 
What happened
N held a business interruption insurance policy with QIC. It claimed on its policy after closing 
in March 2020 due to the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.   
   
QIC said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable   
disease at the premises, N had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As QIC thought N had closed in response to the national lockdown, 
rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19, QIC turned down its claim.  
   
N was unhappy with QICs response and brought its complaint to our service. It said an 
employees relative had been on the premises with symptoms of Covid-19 on 19 March 
2020, before later being admitted to hospital on 2 April. N provided a statement from the 
employees relative saying they had been at Ns premises, as well as a copy of the hospital 
discharge summary, stating that they had Covid-19.  
    
Our investigator looked into Ns complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought the 
policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at Ns premises.  
And he didnt think he was able to conclude that the employees relative had most likely 
been at Ns premises.   
   
N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact 
on Ns business. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.    
   
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if QIC has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ns claim.    
   
The relevant part of Ns policy covers loss in consequence of:   
   
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of 
a Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises  
   
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:  
 
...An illness sustained by any person caused by  
       a) food or drink poisoning  
 b) any human infectious or contagious disease  
c) an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall                    
be notified to them  
 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive then considered the 
information I have to decide if I think its more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-
19 at Ns premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the 
policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss which its policy covers.   
  
The statement from the relative of Ns employee says that they visited Ns premises on       
19 March when they had a cold and fever and their symptoms then worsened over the next 
few days. The employees relative clearly had Covid-19 by 2 April, as evidenced by the 
hospital discharge summary, but their testimony alone isnt enough to persuade me, on the 
balance of probabilities, that they were at Ns premises just before the lockdown began or, if 
they were, that they had Covid-19 at that time. As I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that it is more likely than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at Ns premises, I dont 
think this extension provides cover for the circumstances of its claim.   
  
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr S, but having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require QIC to pay Ns claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman