DRN-1547382
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society didn't allow him to benefit from an 
introductory interest rate offer on his account. 
What happened
Mr L opened a FlexDirect account with Nationwide in June 2018.
He says he believed there was an introductory offer which would allow him to benefit from 
around 5% interest on his savings for the first year, as long as certain criteria were met 
relating to deposits going into the account.
This seemed to be confirmed by a latter Nationwide sent to Mr L in July 2018. This said he 
could benefit from the introductory rate if he paid in £1,000 per month and/or paid his salary 
or pension into the account.
Mr L met the criteria on payments going into the account, but wasn't getting the introductory 
interest rate, so he made enquiries with Nationwide.
They pointed out that the introductory offer didn't extend to customers who'd had FlexDirect 
accounts previously. Mr L had two previous FlexDirect accounts. One closed in 2014 and the 
other in May 2018, a month or so before he opened his latest account. 
Mr L says he wasn't told about the restriction on the introductory offer. He says the letter 
Nationwide sent him in July 2018 doesn't suggest he couldn't benefit from the offer. And he 
says he wouldn't have opened the account had he known.
Mr L complained to Nationwide, who maintained their position. So, Mr L brought his 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter Nationwide sent to Mr L in July 2018 is a standard letter. I assume it's sent to all 
new FlexDirect account holders. It was addressed to Mr L personally however. And it does 
say he can benefit from the introductory offer if he meets the criteria about deposits. 
As I understand it, Nationwide have now changed this standard letter's wording to include an 
explicit statement that previous FlexDirect account holders can't benefit from the higher 
interest rate.So, I can see how Mr L found that letter misleading. However, it was sent to him after he'd 
opened his account. By definition, it couldn't have affected Mr L's decision to open the 
account. And what's most important for my decision now is what Mr L was told (or not told) 
when he decided to open the account.
Mr L says he wasn't told he couldn't benefit from the introductory interest rate. He says if he 
had been told, he wouldn't have opened the account and would have sought better interest 
rates elsewhere.     
That version of events clearly differs from Nationwide's. They say their staff follow a 
standard process when opening an account for a customer. We've seen the script staff 
members are meant to follow. This clearly requires them to tell the customer they won't 
benefit from the introductory interest rate if they've previously had FlexDirect account.
Nationwide also tell us the particular staff member who opened Mr L's account had been 
subject to quality assurance checks when she'd carried out this process previously. Although 
she wasn't specifically checked on the interaction with Mr L, previous checks showed she 
was in the habit of giving the customers the correct information.
I can't now establish with any certainty what was said between Mr L and Nationwide's staff 
member when the account was opened. I'm sure both genuinely believe the conversation 
was as they recall it, but it is some time now since Mr L opened the account and memories 
may not be entirely reliable.
What I can say with more certainty is that Nationwide's documented terms and conditions 
clearly say that previous FlexDirect account holders will not benefit from the introductory 
offer. That same message is also set out in the customer leaflet about Nationwide's 
accounts.
Nationwide have also now provided us with a copy of the agreement form signed by Mr L 
when he opened the account. Just above the signature, this contains a statement which 
says:
"I / we have read and agree to the terms and conditions..." 
Mr L says the signing of the document was just a part of the process of getting the account 
set up. And he trusted that what he'd been told by Nationwide's staff members was  reflected 
in the terms and conditions.
I understand what Mr L is saying. But he's not suggested he was rushed through the process 
or put under undue pressure to sign the agreement. And the relevant terms and conditions 
aren't so long or badly written that they'd take too long to read.
There is no compelling evidence to determine exactly what Mr L was told in the meeting 
when he opened the account - and we clearly have conflicting versions of events. Bearing 
that in mind, the other factors I have to take into account assume more weight. 
On balance, given the clear statements in the terms and conditions document and the 
customer leaflet, I can only conclude it's more likely that Nationwide did enough to make 
clear to Mr L exactly what he was getting when he signed up for the account.
I've also taken into account the fact the Mr L describes himself as an experienced investor, 
with a degree which included Economics. It's very likely he'd be aware that banks would not 
intend to allow customers to benefit from very generous introductory interest rate offers when they close one account only to open the same kind of account almost immediately 
afterwards.   
In summary, I can't conclude Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case 
and I'm not going to uphold Mr L's complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr L's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman