DRN-3640294
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to cancel their 
previous life policy after their new policy started in 2019.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts of what happened are not in dispute, only what should have happened, so Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr and Mrs M that the 
responsibility for cancelling their old policy wasnt held by Aviva. The replacement 
questionnaire they signed stated It is your responsibility to discontinue the contract 
and cancel premiums at the appropriate time. At no point does any of the evidence 
available suggest Aviva were responsible for cancelling the policy without prior 
instruction, and there is no evidence to suggest instruction was given to Aviva any 
earlier.
Mr and Mrs M have made several comments about what their financial advisor told 
them at the time of sale  but the financial advisor was not Aviva, and I cant hold 
Aviva accountable for actions it was not responsible for.
Im satisfied the policy wouldve still paid out for the duration the premiums were paid, 
and Ive received no evidence to suggest Aviva were told to cancel the cover sooner 
by any involved party. 
So, Im not convinced it would be reasonable to suggest that Aviva refund anything. 
Mr and Mrs M were ultimately still benefitting from cover which Aviva would have 
needed customer instruction to cancel.
For the reasons explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman
