DRN-3365245
The complaint
Miss M complains that Crofton Financial Planning Limited mis-sold her a personal mortgage 
and income protection insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2015, following a meeting with Croftons adviser, Miss M took out a personal 
mortgage and income protection insurance policy. The policy included a waiting period of 30 
days, with payments back-dated to the day of claim and attracted a monthly premium of 
£52.38 per month. The policy provided Miss M with a potential monthly benefit of £950 in 
total (split according to Miss Ms mortgage payment and an additional amount to cover lost 
income) if she became unemployed, sick or had an accident and was unable to work. The 
policy provided cover for 12 monthly benefits and, at that point was underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call A.
In 2019, Miss M made two disability claims on her policy. The insurer turned down both 
claims. It appears that neither claim was covered by the terms of the contract.
Miss M was unhappy with the way the policy had been sold to her by Crofton. She didnt 
think the fact that A excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions had been made clear 
to her. But Crofton didnt agree that its adviser had mis-sold the policy to Miss M and so she 
asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt the 
evidence provided from the time of sale showed that the advisers recommendations 
matched Miss Ms demands and needs at that point. And she concluded the paperwork 
indicated that the adviser had asked Miss M about pre-existing medical conditions and that 
shed told them that she didnt have any. Overall, she was satisfied the advisers 
recommendation had been suitable for Miss M.
Miss M disagreed. She said the adviser hadnt asked her whether she had any pre-existing 
medical conditions. She told us her partner had been at the sales meeting with her and he 
also said that she hadnt been asked any questions regarding her health. And she said that 
the paperwork was typed up, her handwriting wasnt on the information. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider the sale of the mortgage and income protection policy by Crofton. It seems 
Miss M remains unhappy with the insurers decision not to pay her claims. But Crofton isnt 
responsible for the assessment of claims. Its role was to sell Miss M the policy. Im also 
aware that Miss M has already made complaints to our service about the declined claims 
which have been considered independently and closed. So in this decision, I will make no 
finding as to the outcome of Miss Ms disability claims.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, I think Crofton has treated her fairly 
and Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Croftons adviser recommended that Miss M should take out the 
mortgage and income protection policy. This means, in line with the relevant rules and 
industry guidelines, they needed to check it was suitable for Miss Ms needs. And they also 
needed to provide her with enough clear, fair and not misleading information to decide if the 
policy was right for her. So Ill explore whether I consider Crofton met this obligation, based 
on the available evidence and what I think is most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances.
First, Ive looked carefully at the fact-find that the adviser carried out with Miss M. It seems 
this was an in-person meeting to establish Miss Ms financial needs. In brief, the fact-find 
document sets out Miss Ms personal details  her age and her full-time employment as a 
personal assistant. The statement of demands and needs, which was sent to Miss M on 13 
November 2015 by the adviser, sets out a summary of Miss Ms circumstances and the 
needs the adviser identified. This said that Miss M had completed on a mortgage earlier in 
the year, with a monthly repayment of £798.43. It says that Miss Ms partner had accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover, but that Miss M didnt. So she wanted a similar policy 
with total cover of £950 per month. She wanted to pay for the policy monthly and she wanted 
claims payments to be backdated to the first day of the claim. The statement records that 
Miss Ms partner was paying a premium of about £60 per month and that this level of 
premium would be affordable for her.
The policy the adviser recommended did provide total cover of £950 per month, which 
matched with the cover the evidence suggests she wanted. The total premium was £53.28 
per month, which met Miss Ms identified objective of a competitive price and was less than 
the premium shed indicated she could afford. I note that the mortgage cover matched the 
apportionment of the monthly benefit the adviser set out on the paperwork. And its clear that 
Miss M was recommended a policy which backdated claims payments to day one, as shed 
requested.
Miss M says one claim with the insurer was declined because of her pre-existing medical 
conditions. She says that Croftons adviser didnt ask her about whether she had any pre-
existing medical conditions. Ive considered this point very carefully as the policy clearly 
excludes claims arising from a pre-existing medical condition and so I think the adviser 
needed to check whether Miss M had any such conditions which could make the policy 
unsuitable for her.
The application submission for Miss Ms policy, which appears to have been issued on 13 
November 2015, includes the following question:
Have you received treatment or medication for a medical condition in the last 12 months or 
are you awaiting referral or consultation for any condition or are you off work at the time of 
completing this application? 
No has been recorded to the right of this question. A Statement of facts for Miss Ms policy 
also includes the question and records the same response. And the fact find asks whether 
Miss M was in good health and Y has been recorded in the corresponding box.
Based on all Ive seen and the paperwork which was produced at the time, it seems more 
likely than not that the adviser did ask Miss M questions about pre-existing medical 
conditions and that she told him she didnt have any. I appreciate Miss M says she cant 
remember being asked about her health. But I need to bear in mind that the sale happened over six years ago and that memories can fade over time. While the paperwork has been 
typed-up, I dont think theres anything unusual in that or which undermines the evidence 
from the time of sale. Taking everything into account, Ive placed more weight on the 
contemporaneous evidence from the time of sale. And I find, on balance, the adviser most 
likely did ask Miss M questions about her health during the meeting. As Miss M appears to 
have told the adviser that she didnt have any medical conditions, I think the policy 
recommendation wouldve appeared to be a suitable one.
Ive borne in mind too that the adviser needed to provide Miss M with clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the policy in good time, so she could decide whether it was 
right for her. The statement of demands and needs says that the adviser gave Miss M a 
policy summary and a quotation, which set out important information about the policy. Page 
five of this summary sets out the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. If Miss M 
hadnt been given a copy of this document, it was open to her to request it from the adviser, 
given the demands and needs statement said it had already been given to her.
The full policy terms and conditions, which Crofton told Miss M it had provided (which she 
doesnt appear to have disputed), also sets out the terms of the insurance contract. This too 
set out the pre-existing medical condition exclusion and explained how the policy would 
operate. It was down to Miss M to check the overall documentation to ensure it accorded 
with the recommendation shed been given. And she had a 30 day cooling-off period to 
cancel the policy if it didnt work in the way she thought it would.
All in all, it seems to me that the policy the adviser recommended matched Miss Ms 
requirements based on the information and evidence Crofton was given. While I entirely 
understand why Miss M was upset when her claims werent paid by the insurer, I havent 
seen enough evidence to suggest that this was down to any failing on Croftons part.
So overall, I dont think theres enough evidence to show that Crofton acted unreasonably 
when it sold Miss Ms policy. This means Im not directing it to refund the premiums she paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman