DRN-3060196
The complaint
Mr and Mrs As complaint is that their mortgage endowment policy was mis-sold to them in 
1997. Essentially, they believe this was the case because of the risks associated with the 
policy. 
TenetConnect Limited is responsible for the sale of the policy.
What happened
The endowment policy started at the beginning of 1998 with a target amount of £70,591 and 
it had a term of 25 years. It provided life cover and critical illness cover for Mr and Mrs A. It 
was set up on a low start basis, which meant the premium increased by 20% of the original 
premium on the first five policy anniversaries. The policy was unit-linked and invested 
equally in the Fidelity International Income fund and the Fidelity Special Situations fund.
At the time both Mr and Mrs A were 27 years old and both employed in jobs unrelated to 
financial services. They had a joint income of just over £38,000. They had no dependents at 
the time, but they were planning to have a family in the future and to move to a larger 
property too. They had deposit-based savings for the deposit and moving costs. Mr A also 
had a with-profits savings endowment policy, which hed taken out five years earlier over a 
term of 20 years. They were recorded as having a balanced attitude toward risk for 
investments. 
Mr and Mrs A were provided with an illustration before they accepted the recommendation to 
take out the policy. It detailed that the policy needed to achieve an annual growth rate of 
7.5% to meet its target value. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs A were provided with a key features document for the policy. It 
explained that the proceeds from the policy would depend on investment performance and 
was not guaranteed to cover the selected mortgage amount, except on death or earlier 
critical illness. It confirmed the price of units could go down as well as up, so the value of the 
investment might fluctuate and couldnt be guaranteed.  The document also explained the 
difference between an endowment mortgage and a capital and interest one. 
The advisers recommendations detailed that repayment, pension, personal equity plan 
(PEP) and endowment mortgages had been discussed. The adviser recommended they 
have either a PEP or endowment mortgage as those best suited Mr and Mrs As risk profile. 
The adviser then detailed that Mr and Mrs A had chosen endowment and he had 
recommended they have the endowment on a low start basis. What that would mean was 
then explained. There was no discussion of the funds the policy was to be invested in. 
However, the adviser later added an addendum detailing the funds the endowment was to 
be invested in, but there was no discussion about the risks associated with those funds. 
Mr and Mrs A appear to have stopped using the policy for mortgage purposes in 2002, but 
they didnt surrender it until 2017.
Mr and Mrs A raised their complaint about the sale in 2019. TenetConnect didnt consider 
the merits of Mr As complaint, as it thought the complaint had been made too late. 
The complaint was referred to this service and we considered whether it fell within our 
jurisdiction. One of my ombudsman colleagues concluded it did. As such, one of our 
investigators considered the merits of Mr and Mrs As complaint, but she didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said the adviser didnt 
adequately assess or discuss their attitude toward risk at the time of the sale and they didnt 
recall having been shown the illustration. They confirmed that the adviser focussed on the 
positive aspects of endowments  a lump sum in excess of the mortgage amount being 
available  and the historical performance of this type of plan. There was further explanation 
given as to why an endowment was not suitable for Mr and Mrs A. They asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 July 2020. In that document I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Before considering the merits of this complaint, I have considered our jurisdiction, as we do 
in all cases. One of my ombudsman colleagues concluded this complaint fell into our 
jurisdiction and explained why. I agree with that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since 1988, when an investment policy is sold an adviser has been required to know their 
customer. This means exploring the customers circumstances, needs and requirements. 
The information gathered will be recorded in a fact find document. By 1997 when 
Mr and Mrs As policy was sold, the fact find document had to include details of the 
discussions surrounding risk and how much risk the customers were willing to take in 
relation to the matters they wanted advice on. Unfortunately, the fact find document that 
would have been completed in 1997 isnt available due to the passage of time. So its not 
clear how much, if any, risk Mr and Mrs A were willing to take with their mortgage 
arrangements.
At the time Mr and Mrs A were both aged 27 and theyve told us they had no experience of 
mortgages or investments. As our investigator has explained, this doesnt mean they 
couldnt have taken a risk with their mortgage if theyd wanted to. So I need to consider what 
little we do know about their circumstances at the time and assess whether the policy they 
were sold was likely to have been suitable for them.
The policy sold was a unit-linked one and invested in two funds  special situations and 
international income. These were by no means the lowest risk funds that were available for 
this policy to invest in at the time. The policy was also a low start one, where the premiums 
increased over the first five years. Such policies, while not generally considered to represent 
a notably higher risk than a level premium policy, do have a slightly restricted opportunity for 
growth in the early years.  
Overall, I think it reasonable to say that at the time the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs A, it 
would have generally been considered to represent a significant level of risk. As such, it 
would only be suitable for investors who were willing to accept that level of risk in relation to 
the repayment of their mortgage.
As I have said above, we dont know what Mr and Mrs As attitude toward risk was 
established as at the time of the sale. However, it has been pointed out that they were 
first time buyers and they had no investment experience. These circumstances wouldnt preclude them from taking a risk with their mortgage repayment. In addition, I think it likely 
that they did know there was some risk linked to the policy, given they didnt raise concerns 
when they had to increase the premium due to poor performance of the policy. However, 
accepting there was some risk, doesnt meant they understood the level of risk associated 
with this policy. 
I have carefully considered this case, and I am not persuaded their circumstances or the 
documentation available, indicates Mr and Mrs A would have understood the level of risk 
associated with the endowment they were sold, or that they were suited to it. As such, 
I intend to uphold this complaint. 
As I have found the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A due to the level of risk it 
represented, I dont propose to comment further on the points that have been made about 
the more peripheral issues, such as charges and fees.
When considering redress, we aim to place a consumer in the position they would have 
been in, had the error or omission made by the financial business not occurred. In this case 
it isnt clear what Mr and Mrs A would have done had they not been recommended their 
endowment policy. So, I think it reasonable that the redress should follow the regulators 
guidance and compare the position Mr and Mrs A would have been in, had they taken a 
repayment mortgage.
Mr and Mrs A didnt respond to my provisional decision. TenetConnect responded and 
provided a copy of the point of sale documents, that hadnt previously been provided, and 
comments from the financial adviser who sold the policy to Mr and Mrs A. I incorporated 
information from the point of sale documentation in the earlier part of this background. 
The advisers report produced when Mr and Mrs As complaint was received by 
TenetConnect went through the process he had gone through during the sale of the policy 
and highlighted key pieces of information contained in the documentation. He said that the 
attitude toward risk of balanced for investment and balanced/adventurous for pensions, 
could not be statements of a cautious investor. He also highlighted that at the time of the 
sale the 7.5% per annum return was the regulators mid growth rate and perceived to have a 
medium risk associated with it. 
Following my provisional decision, the adviser also added that before recommending the 
endowment hed discussed with Mr A his understanding of his savings endowment. He said 
that this reassured him that Mr A understood investments, risk exposure and the lack of 
guarantees.
I issued a further provisional decision on 7 September 2021, again setting out my 
conclusions following reviewing the further information provided by TenetConnect. Below is 
an excerpt.
As I explained in my provisional decision of July 2021, the policy recommended to 
Mr and Mrs A, because of its nature and the funds selected, would have been considered to 
represent a significant level of risk.  At that time, I was unaware of the detail of the 
fact-finding exercise that had been undertaken at the time of the sale. The details of that 
have now been provided and it appears that Mr and Mrs A said they were willing to accept a 
balanced level or risk in relation to the endowment policy. However, this doesnt alter my 
conclusions about the suitability of the policy. I remain satisfied that the combination of the 
funds selected, and the low start arrangement, would still have represented a greater level of 
risk that Mr and Mrs A said they were willing to accept in relation to the repayment of their 
mortgage. I have noted the advisers comments about the risk associated with the policy, and that a 
policy built using a 7.5% growth rate would have been considered to be a medium risk at the 
time. Whilst I understand the principle the adviser has explained, it doesnt take into account 
the level of risk the funds selected would build into any such policy. If high risk funds were 
selected, the choice of a 7.5% growth rate wouldnt have changed the policy into a medium 
risk policy.
I also note the advisers comments about Mr As understanding of his existing savings 
endowment policy. However, this was just his understanding and the policy had to be 
suitable for and understood by both customers. In addition, a with-profits savings 
endowment would have represented a significantly different risk profile to the policy sold in 
1997, not only because of the funds invested in but also the different risk between savings 
and the roof over a customers head would have represented.
I was still satisfied the complaint should be upheld and the redress detailed in my first 
provisional decision remained appropriate in the circumstances.
Both parties acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision. Mr and Mrs A accepted my 
conclusions. TenetConnect didnt provide any further evidence or comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence or comments have been provided in response to my second provisional 
decision, I see no reason to alter me conclusions. I remain satisfied the policy sold to 
Mr and Mrs A was inappropriate for their circumstances at the time.
Putting things right
TenetConnect should calculate whether Mr and Mrs A suffered a loss due to being 
recommended the mortgage endowment policy in 1997. The initial part of the calculation will 
compare the position they were in with that which they would have been in had they taken 
their mortgage on a repayment basis. 
This part of the redress should follow the regulators guidance, known as RU89. This will 
compare the position of Mr and Mrs As mortgage when they converted it in 2002 with the 
hypothetical position they would have been in, had they had a repayment mortgage from the 
outset. 
However, as Mr and Mrs A kept the policy after converting their mortgage to repayment, and 
I am satisfied they did so without the full knowledge of the risks associated with it, 
TenetConnect should calculate the loss as D-E where:
A = the loss identified by carrying out a loss calculation in accordance with the regulators 
guidance Handling Mortgage Endowment Complaints (known as RU89), using a nil 
surrender value. This calculation should be completed for the period from 1997 to 2002 
when the policy was used for Mr and Mrs As mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs A were married and 
reliant on each other financially, it is reasonable that the cost of a decreasing term 
assurance be included in the overall cost comparison. I note that they chose to include 
critical illness cover on the endowment, and so it would also be reasonable for this benefit to 
be included in the hypothetical decreasing term assurance policy.B = a refund of the premiums paid to the policy from the date the policy ceased to be used 
for the mortgage until it was surrendered. 
C = interest* at 8% simple per year on the premium in B from the date of payment to the 
date the policy was surrendered. 
D = A + B + C 
E = the surrender value of the policy Mr and Mrs A received in 2017. Interest* at 8% per year 
should be added to D-E from the date of surrender to the date of this decision.
If a loss is identified, TenetConnect should pay that sum to Mr and Mrs A.
*If TenetConnect considers it is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest 
paid, it should provide Mr and Mrs A with evidence of the deduction, which they can use for 
HMRC purposes if required.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I will require TenetConnect Limited to settle 
the complaint as detailed in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman