DRN-4017913
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Extracover Limited trading as Zego (Zego) mis-sold a Complete 
Vehicle Hire (CVH) policy as an additional benefit to a private hire motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L is a taxi driver. He bought a private hire motor insurance policy with a broker, Zego in 
September 2021. In January 2022 Mr L was involved in an incident and his car was 
damaged. So he made a claim to the insurer of the policy. 
Mr L complained that Zego had mis-sold a CVH policy to him. When he made a claim, he 
was unhappy that he was asked to contact the business of the CVH as he said he bought a 
policy with Zego. He believed he had cover for a replacement hire car in his circumstances. 
Zego didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It listened to the sales call and found the agent had 
explained the cover available under the CVH policy. While the agent didnt specify that a 
separate business to Zego provided the cover, Zego said this was clear from the policy 
documents it sent out after the call when Mr L accepted the policy. The CVH policy was 
offered as a free additional benefit by Zego when Mr L bought the private hire motor 
insurance policy. 
Mr L asked us to look at his complaint. He said Zego has sold him something it cannot 
provide. He said when he did speak to the CVH provider, he was given the option to wait for 
an available replacement car or accept a cash alternative, which he wasnt satisfied with.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Zegos role as a broker was to provide information that was clear and not misleading. It 
didnt provide advice as to the suitability of the policy for Mr L. On this basis, she didnt find 
that Zego had mis-sold the CVH policy. 
Mr L didnt agree. He didnt provide any further comments. Zego accepted the Investigators 
view.
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether Zego acted reasonably in its role as the broker that sold the CVH 
policy to Mr L. 
From the key sales call Im satisfied Mr L was made aware of the level of cover available 
under the CVH policy. The policy documents that were sent to Mr L after he bought the 
policy explain the levels of cover and the terms and exclusions that apply. 
Under the Fault Hire section of the CVH policy, Mr L could make a claim for a replacement 
hire vehicle for a period of up to 14 days where he admits to being at fault for the incident 
while his car is being repaired. The policy sets out the terms and exclusions attached to this 
cover. 
Where Mr L doesnt admit fault for an incident, the CVH policy provides cover for uninsured 
losses up to £100,000. This is again on the basis of certain terms and conditions being met. 
Zego sent Mr L the policy wording, along with an Insurance Product Information Document 
highlighting what is and isnt excluded. This provided the name and number of the business 
for Mr L to contact for assistance under the CVH policy. 
Notes provided by Zego show Mr L spoke with the CVH provider on 28 January 2022. He 
was unhappy that the policy didnt provide cover for loss of earnings. The agent explained to 
Mr L that as his claim was a fault claim, it wouldnt be able to cover his loss of earnings -  as 
this is an uninsured loss which can only be looked to recover from a third party insurer if they 
are at fault for the incident. This is in line with the policy wording provided by Zego when Mr 
L bought the policy.
When Mr L bought the policy, Zego gave Mr L 14 days to change his mind if he wasnt happy 
with it. So I think Mr L was given a further opportunity - once he read the policy wording - to 
cancel the policy with Zego and obtain alternative cover if he found it wasnt suitable for him. 
I understand Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But from what Ive seen, I think 
Zego provided information to Mr L that was clear and not misleading when it sold a motor 
policy and additional products to Mr L in September 2021. And from what Mr L has told us, 
he was able to seek assistance from the provider of the CVH policy and his claim was 
considered. I appreciate that Mr L wasnt satisfied with the response he was given, but this 
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold to him. 
So Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman